

201 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: China Has Held American 18 Months Without Charges 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
A 66-year-old naturalized American citizen has been jailed here for 18 months on suspicion of gathering state secrets, his relatives and American officials revealed today.
 In violation of Chinese legal procedure, the man, Fuming Fong, an electrical engineer from West Orange, N.J., still has not been formally indicted. And for most of his detention, his family says, Mr. Fong has been subjected to a gratuitous torment: he has been deprived of his badly needed eyeglasses and hearing aid. 
 The jailing of Mr. Fong is the latest of several cases involving the arrest of Chinese-born Americans on vague security grounds. 
After one-and-a-half years of seeking his release quietly, Mr. Fong's wife and two sons are taking his case to Congress and the American public, and it threatens to become a new irritant in Chinese-American relations just as President Bush prepares for his first official visit here next month. Chinese leaders are eager to strengthen ties with the United States, which they see as vital to their country's modernization. 
Mr. Fong's relatives insist that he is innocent. The accusations against him center on technical documents that Mr. Fong had assembled in his laptop computer in his role as a consultant to American power companies. He was detained on Feb. 28, 2000, shortly after arriving in Beijing for a meeting with the American company Babcock & Wilcox, which was bidding for a contract for a power transmission project financed by the World Bank.
Mr. Fong never arrived at that meeting, but it appears that the authorities were more concerned about documents he had from earlier projects, his relatives said.
"The Chinese have blatantly violated their own criminal procedure law," said Jerome Cohen, a lawyer in New York who is advising Mr. Fong's family. Mr. Fong was formally arrested in September 2000 but not indicted on specific charges. Even with all allowable extensions, Mr. Cohen said, Mr. Fong should have been indicted or released within seven months after his formal arrest.
"They haven't been able to come up with any plausible rationale for holding him 18 months without an indictment," said Mr. Cohen, who has long experience in China and has advised several other Chinese-born American citizens and green-card holders who were arrested here.
On Thursday, Mr. Cohen and one of Mr. Fong's sons, an engineer who asked that his name be withheld, traveled to Washington, where they raised his case with members of Congress from New Jersey, hoping to build pressure for answers from the Chinese government.
In some well-publicized recent cases of American citizens or permanent residents arrested on security grounds, Chinese authorities convicted them, then deported them. 
The American Embassy confirmed today that Mr. Fong was in detention and had been visited numerous times by consular officers, who have recently been able to deliver needed medications. But officials said that, under American privacy law, they cannot discuss details of the case. 
Mr. Fong was a senior engineer and an electric-power official in Zhejiang Province before he moved to the United States in the late 1980's to become a private consultant. His wife, who was born in the United States while her parents were attending graduate school there in the 1930's, was already an American citizen, and Mr. Fong was naturalized as a citizen in 1994. 
Mr. Fong was initially accused of bribing Chinese officials to obtain confidential information. But security agents soon decided to treat the technical documents in his computer as state secrets, and Mr. Fong is being held in a Beijing detention center of the Ministry of State Security, which handles spy cases. 
According to a statement by his family, Mr. Fong told a lawyer that none of the documents had been marked as confidential. Most were from previous power projects, he said, and many had been provided to him by his multinational clients. 
As for the accusations of bribery, the authorities have not provided any details or evidence, the family said, nor is there any sign that any Chinese officials have been arrested for giving him secret documents.
Mr. Fong is extremely nearsighted and hard of hearing, his relatives said, but for most of the last year, for unexplained reasons, he was not allowed to wear his glasses, and he is still denied use of his hearing aid.
"Not being able to hear makes him feel helpless, and it's driving him crazy," one of his relatives said today.
Lately, he has been given his glasses when he needs to write documents, but for months he has been unable to read.
After nearly a year of being denied access to a lawyer "on the ground that the case involves state secrets," his family said, the authorities relented, and he has had five visits from a Chinese lawyer. But these visits have been of limited use, Mr. Cohen said, in part because Mr. Fong had trouble hearing the lawyer through the glass partition.
Though he lives in the United States, Mr. Fong works for a Hong Kong consulting firm. In his work, Mr. Fong has helped several American companies win power projects in China and Southeast Asia. The family, in its statement, said his work in China had involved only projects financed by international development institutions that "strictly adhere to international open-bidding practices."
On Aug. 15, the relatives filed a formal petition protesting Mr. Fong's prolonged detention without charges and asking for his release on bail. By law, they should have received an answer within seven days but have heard nothing.
Mr. Cohen said he had learned that state security and police officials had twice tried to present a case for prosecution, but that both times the prosecutors had sent it back for lack of convincing evidence.
Cases involving Americans may receive global publicity, but Mr. Fong's treatment also shows the general flaws in China's justice system. 
"This is one of tens of thousands of cases where the investigations exceed the time limits," Mr. Cohen said. "It happens all the time."
"The police just pay no attention to the rules," he said. "But now in this case they've run out of excuses." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (89%); NATURALIZATION (89%); ARRESTS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); DEPORTATION (76%); ESPIONAGE (73%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (50%); CRIMINAL LAW (50%) ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%) FONG, FUMING; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001 



202 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Lost Files Jeopardize Choices By Clinton for Kennedy Center 

BYLINE:  By DON VAN NATTA Jr. and ELAINE SCIOLINO 

 BODY:
It is not unusual for Washington's elite to jockey for the best seats in the house at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. But in an unusually bitter cultural contretemps, Clinton loyalists and the Bush White House are fighting over who should occupy seats on the center's socially and politically influential board of trustees. 
 A seat on the board of the Kennedy Center is one of the most prized plums a president can bestow, and former President Bill Clinton selected five lucky men for the honor as he was preparing to leave the White House. They expected six-year terms and special boxes at the center's concert halls. But there has been a hitch because the Bush administration says it cannot find the official records of Mr. Clinton's appointments, board members and administration officials said today. The official commission papers for the appointments, signed by Mr. Clinton in December, are missing and the appropriate filing procedure may not have been followed, officials said. 
 So the position of the Bush White House is: no papers, no appointments.
Among those caught in the cultural crossfire are two prominent Democratic fund-raisers, Smith Bagley, the grandson of the tobacco magnate R. J. Reynolds, and Mark S. Weiner, president of the Democratic Governors Association.
Scrambling to salvage the appointments, aides to Mr. Clinton are frantically searching for copies of the papers among the former president's archives of millions of White House documents at a warehouse in Little Rock, Ark., an aide to Mr. Clinton said. A search in August failed to turn up the papers. A second, more comprehensive search began last week, officials said.
A seat on the Kennedy Center's board of trustees is a prestigious political honor. It is like no other performing arts board in America. Thirty of its 47 trustees are appointed to six-year terms by the president, often as consolation prizes to friends and fund-raisers who do not get ambassadorships or who cannot move overseas. By law, among the other 17 members are 3 members of the cabinet, 10 members of Congress, the Washington mayor, the director of the National Park Service and the librarian of Congress.
Several trustees said the board, which is a fiercely nonpartisan group, is trying to resist getting caught in the middle of a contentious dispute between members of the Clinton and Bush administrations.
"It's astonishing; it's awful," said James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank and a former chairman of the board of the Kennedy Center, in a telephone interview. Mr. Wolfensohn emphasized that he had heard only rumors of the appointment problem, but said, "It's clearly a sad state of affairs and doesn't help the institution because of the uncertainty it creates."
Tiki Davies, the Kennedy Center spokesman, said, "The Kennedy Center has no comment."
But a longtime board member said: "Everyone at the Kennedy Center is heartsick -- it's a great shame. It is a tremendous disappointment for the people who were appointed. They didn't do it. The papers fell through the cracks somewhere."
In addition to Mr. Bagley and Mr. Weiner, the trustees whose appointments are now in doubt are Frank H. Pearl, a lawyer and chairman of the venture capital firm Perseus Capital; William F. McSweeney, the emeritus chairman of Ford's Theater; and Thomas E. Wheeler, the president and chief executive officer of the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association. 
Anne Womack, assistant White House press secretary, said the Bush administration had not threatened to block the five Clinton appointees if the commission records were not found. "We're working with the Kennedy Center," Ms. Womack said. "If they don't find them, we'll cross that bridge when we come to it."
Earlier this year, the executive clerk's office told officials in the White House personnel office that there were five vacancies on the Kennedy Center Board. But while the Bush officials began compiling a list of potential nominees, they learned from Kennedy Center officials that there were no openings on the board.
"That's when we discovered there was no paperwork backing up these five appointments," Ms. Womack said. "There is no official record of them ever being commissioned."
A Democratic strategist with knowledge of the dispute said, "The White House made it clear, if those records can't be found, they will block the appointments of the Clinton guys and go with their own people."
The five appointees, who first heard of the missing papers in July, have hired Robert A. Long of the powerful Washington law firm Covington & Burling. They have discussed filing a lawsuit against the Bush administration. The appointees either declined to comment or could not be reached for comment.
Behind the scenes, there have been bitter recriminations on both sides, and the dispute has inflamed political passions among some current Kennedy Center board members.
A Democrat who is a friend of Mr. Clinton speculated that the White House may have purposefully lost the documents so they could have the appointments for Mr. Bush. But a Republican supporter of the center scoffed at the notion and said: "Think of the last few weeks of that administration. It was chaos. It's hardly a surprise that these records were lost. If only this happened to the Marc Rich pardon."
Although their appointments might be challenged, the five men's names appear as presidential appointees on the Kennedy Center Web site. Their names are on the Kennedy Center stage bills that are distributed to audiences at every performance. And at least two of the trustees are committee chairmen. Mr. Pearl is chairman of the finance committee, and Mr. Wheeler is chairman of the personnel committee.
The appointment process is complicated. The documents that literally make the appointments, called commissions, should have gone from the White House personnel office to the White House executive clerk's office. From there, the papers should have been filed with the secretary of state's office, which usually makes an appointment of this sort official. In this case, the documents may have never left the White House, officials said.
News of the appointment problem has been closely held, and some of the trustees said this week they were unaware of it. Even James H. Billington, the librarian of Congress, who sits on the board's executive committee, said in a telephone interview today that he knew nothing about it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); LIBRARIANS (70%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (63%); GOVERNORS (55%); GRANDCHILDREN (51%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); NATIONAL PARKS (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (91%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%) VAN NATTA, DON JR; SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CLINTON, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BAGLEY, SMITH; WEINER, MARK S; PEARL, FRANK H; MCSWEENEY, WILLIAM F; WHEELER, THOMAS E 

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001 



203 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2022 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNING FOR CITY HALL: THE RECORD; 
Bloomberg Philanthropy Cuts Two Ways as Campaign Issue

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY 

 BODY:
Last year, when Michael R. Bloomberg was consulting political advisers and gearing up for a bid for mayor, his charitable giving doubled from the year before. Compared with three years earlier, the increase was nearly fourfold, growing to $100.5 million from $26.6 million.
 In dispensing the enlarged bankroll last year, Mr. Bloomberg added nearly 200 new organizations, including 79 in New York City that covered a broad spectrum of causes he had not supported during the previous three years, according to four years of partial tax returns he made available to the news media. 
 It is not possible to determine how much money Mr. Bloomberg gave to the new charities because the tax information does not list the donations given to individual groups. The information does show that the number of New York City charities, as a proportion of the total, has remained more or less constant over the years. 
Some of the charities that have most recently been added to Mr. Bloomberg's list are the Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding on Fifth Avenue, which got a cash donation, as did the Staten Island Children's Museum and NYC2012, the committee that promotes the city's Olympic ambitions.
Also for the first time, Mr. Bloomberg bought tickets to fund-raisers for the Eye Bank for Sight Restoration on Wall Street and for the Grand Central Partnership, a business improvement district on East 42nd Street. Another newcomer was the Children's Health Fund on East 64th Street, which got money from Mr. Bloomberg to help pay for a "doctor's office on wheels" that serves poor children in the Bronx.
His opponent in the Republican primary, Herman Badillo, makes the argument that Mr. Bloomberg was looking to buy the good will of New Yorkers -- or perhaps exaggerate the scope and breadth of his generosity -- as a backdrop to his mayoral bid. 
"Last year, he gave twice as much money as he had in the previous year," Mr. Badillo said in an interview. "Clearly, it was all geared to his mayoral campaign. Clearly, his philanthropy has been used for political purposes."
A senior aide to Mr. Badillo, James S. Vlasto, suggested the surge in Mr. Bloomberg's giving separated him from other rich politicians like Nelson Rockefeller or Robert Kennedy.
"With other families of wealth over the years, the Rockefellers or the Kennedys, the giving was done quietly, effectively and consistently over a long period of time," he said. "For Mike Bloomberg, we do feel the jump was an appeal to try and gain some political edge."
Mr. Bloomberg's campaign bristles at the suggestion that any of his giving has been influenced by politics. A review of Mr. Bloomberg's philanthropy since 1997 shows no evidence of a broad pattern of political calculation leading up to his candidacy. 
"They are ridiculous allegations," said Patricia E. Harris, who oversees Mr. Bloomberg's philanthropic giving at his company, Bloomberg L.P., and who also works as an adviser on his mayoral campaign. "We are trying to make a difference and leave a legacy of people who get involved in their community."
Mr. Bloomberg is using some of the charities with which he is affiliated to promote his candidacy. 
A pamphlet mailed this week features Mr. Bloomberg's new sponsorship of the Bronx medical van under the general heading, "Protecting and preparing our children." The same contribution for the van is also mentioned in a 12-page biographical brochure, which has been among Mr. Bloomberg's most widely distributed campaign literature.
In most elections, philanthropy would be an odd bone of contention among candidates. But the motivations behind Mr. Bloomberg's charity have unusual relevance in this year's race because Mr. Bloomberg has made philanthropy a defining element of his public persona, featuring it in television advertisements, campaign literature and in his stump speeches.
Just as Mr. Badillo has emphasized his record as Bronx borough president, deputy mayor and congressman, Mr. Bloomberg, who has never before sought public office, has tried to distinguish himself through his experience as a successful businessman and as a serious doer of good. His record of charitable gifts is one of the few public windows Mr. Bloomberg has opened into his largely private world.
Typically, when asked on the campaign trail why he is running for mayor, Mr. Bloomberg cites his philanthropy and speaks of a burning desire to "give back" to New York.
"I am luckier than anyone has the right to be," he told a crowd last month on the Upper East Side.
A Bloomberg television advertisement shows him and some of his employees painting a run-down school with Publicolor, a charity he has supported. In a mailing last month to Jewish voters, he described himself as "one of the Jewish community's most dedicated volunteers and most generous donors." In a pamphlet sent this week to Hispanic voters, he boasted about his financial support of the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.
In an interview, Mr. Bloomberg said he made the decision at the beginning of the campaign to be open about his philanthropy -- to the point of providing the news media with the names of more than 1,000 organizations he has supported in recent years -- in part to counter any suspicions that he was secretly promoting his candidacy under the guise of charity.
"You had no choice," Mr. Bloomberg said. "Remember, there were issues before of other candidates trying to buy votes and I wanted to make sure that nobody thought we were doing that."
He added: "My personal philanthropy would stay totally private if it weren't for this campaign. I don't think it is anybody's business."
Mr. Bloomberg said he gave a lot of money to organizations in New York because his company is based here. Though his tax information did not include foreign giving, he said he also made major contributions to organizations in London, where his company has its European headquarters.
The level of his giving is almost always related to the profitability of his company, he said, and therefore rose markedly during the economic boom in the late 1990's. While his company may derive some tax benefits from its charitable donations, Mr. Bloomberg's personal tax returns show he is already in the highest tax bracket and his campaign said he derived no tax benefit from the additional giving. 
Dr. Alfred Sommer, dean of the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University, said Mr. Bloomberg began making more gifts anonymously once he became serious about running for mayor. He said Mr. Bloomberg actually reined in some of his high-profile philanthropy in anticipation of criticism like that leveled by the Badillo campaign. 
"I am a New Yorker, we are a cynical bunch and I know that rap is easy," said Dr. Sommer, whose school in Baltimore has been among the biggest recipients of Mr. Bloomberg's charity. "As it got closer to this mayoral race, his concern was that he didn't want it to be perceived he was giving for that reason. He saw a backlash effect."
Even with Mr. Bloomberg's emphasis on his philanthropy during the campaign, it is hard to substantiate the Badillo campaign's broader claim of political calculation, based on the tax information made available by the Bloomberg campaign.
The gift last year to the Children's Health Fund was a three-year commitment that was nearly 18 months in the making, according to Judith Jorrisch, vice president of development at the fund, a charitable organization. Ms. Jorrisch said her office approached Mr. Bloomberg in early 1999 about making the contribution, which she said exceeded $50,000 a year.
"We came to them cold and asked for the money," Ms. Jorrisch said. "In our quest for new supporters, we thought Mike Bloomberg and his company would be a perfect fit."
In 1997, well before Mr. Bloomberg nailed down his plans for seeking public office, he gave generously and much of the money went to charities in New York City. And the year before, he was ranked 13th on Fortune magazine's list of the country's most generous philanthropists.
While Mr. Bloomberg's giving grew substantially thereafter, most of the increase can be traced to the huge donations to Johns Hopkins, his alma mater. Johns Hopkins announced in May an anonymous pledge of $100 million to establish an institute devoted to the treatment of malaria. An official at the university, who declined to be identified, said this week that Mr. Bloomberg, who had publicly donated $100 million to the university, was the source of the anonymous pledge as well.
"He has been very well known in the world of philanthropy," said Stacy Palmer, editor of The Chronicle of Philanthropy, which published a profile of Mr. Bloomberg as philanthropist in May 1997. "It is not just the amount he donates. He is also quite a gifted fund-raiser from what we hear."
In the years leading up to his bid for mayor, Mr. Bloomberg's giving rose steadily in terms of the total number of recipients and those with operations based in New York City, according to an analysis of the tax information by The New York Times. Last year, 577 organizations received money from Mr. Bloomberg, compared with 425 in 1997. Of those on the list last year, 309 were based in the city. The corresponding number in 1997 was 228.
But the percentage of New York recipients was similarly proportionate over the four years. And since his campaign would not disclose the amount of money provided to individual organizations, it was impossible to gauge the significance of the New York component.
Ms. Harris said some contributions were as small as $500; the biggest donations, she said, have consistently gone to the 20 organizations where Mr. Bloomberg holds a position on the board. He has supported some of them, like the New York Police and Fire Widows' and Children's Benefit Fund, for more than a decade.
"I can only promise you that he has never asked for anything," said Rusty Staub, the fund's chairman, who appeared on a campaign advertisement for Mr. Bloomberg. "He has only asked how he can help."
Mr. Bloomberg has long offered an interpretation of philanthropy that emphasizes both giving and receiving. 
"The fact of the matter is it's very good for business," Mr. Bloomberg said in the article in The Chronicle of Philanthropy. "People respect you because of it. People talk about you because of it. You've got to believe when my company takes a table at a fund-raising dinner for 10 grand, we get our money's worth." 
Mr. Bloomberg devoted a chapter to his views about philanthropy in his autobiography, "Bloomberg by Bloomberg," which was published in 1997.
"It all helps the bottom line," he wrote. "Companies that don't understand that don't do as well as they could."
In the chapter about philanthropy he writes about the attraction of politics and mentions three jobs that might interest him: mayor, governor and president. At the time he was writing the book, Mr. Bloomberg was contemplating what he wanted to do with the rest of his life and with his money, a process that led to the decision last year to run for mayor, several associates said.
But like most things about Mr. Bloomberg and his enormous fortune -- according to Forbes magazine, his estimated worth of $4 billion last year made him the sixth richest man in New York City -- it is hard to separate the man, the media mogul and the candidate.
Alphabetical lists of charitable organizations included in the tax information made no distinction between personal gifts from Mr. Bloomberg and gifts from his privately held company or from a family foundation he established.
Ms. Harris said the source of the check was not important; it was all Mr. Bloomberg's money.
Should he be elected, Mr. Bloomberg said his commitment to philanthropy would not change, even with the heightened level of scrutiny it would undoubtedly receive. However, he is likely to make one change: he said he would erect a very high wall between his mayoral office and his philanthropy office.
"You can't put yourself in the place where, if the city budget can't do something, then every constituent group will say I should pay for it from my personal funds," Mr. Bloomberg said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican mayoral candidate, called out a few bingo numbers yesterday at the New Dorp Senior Center in Staten Island. (Krista Niles/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); FAMILY (71%); ORGAN DONATION (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (65%); INTERVIEWS (61%); RELIGION (52%) PHILANTHROPY; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; MAYORS 

ORGANIZATION: EYE-BANK FOR SIGHT RESTORATION (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%) MURPHY, DEAN E; BADILLO, HERMAN; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001 



204 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Saying Too Many Are Losing Jobs, Bush Pushes His Policies 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that "too many people are losing their jobs," and he cast the surge in the unemployment rate as reason for Congress to advance his economic agenda by expanding trade agreements and reducing energy costs while holding down government spending.
 "The slowdown is real, and it's affecting too many lives, and we're concerned about it," Mr. Bush said. "Any American out of work is too many Americans out of work." 
 His hastily arranged appearance outside the Oval Office this afternoon reflected growing concern among his aides and officials of his party that the deteriorating economic and budget outlook could dearly cost the White House and Congressional Republicans politically.
Even as Republicans scrambled to contain the fallout from the unemployment figures, the White House budget director, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., told Republican leaders on Capitol Hill that the softening economy might bite more deeply into tax revenues in the current fiscal year than had been anticipated. Republican aides said Mr. Daniels suggested that Congress and the administration faced a greater likelihood of having to spend money generated by the Social Security system than the White House had acknowledged.
With Wall Street tumbling on word that the unemployment rate jumped last month to 4.9 percent, a full percentage point above where it was on Election Day 10 months ago, Mr. Bush spoke to reporters, with Vice President Dick Cheney and the leaders of his party in Congress at his side. The country, he said, needs a "growth plan" to reverse a downturn that he pointedly said started before he took office.
But Mr. Bush, the son of a president whose loss in 1992 was widely attributed to a failure to address the last recession more aggressively, seemed mostly intent on assuring voters that he was in touch with what the weakened economy meant to individuals.
"I want the American people to know we're deeply concerned about the unemployment rates and we intend to do something about it," he said.
He did not say, though, what he intended to do, beyond pushing for policies he had been pressing for all along and waiting for his tax cut to give the economy a kick. As he did in selling his tax cut, Mr. Bush used the changing economic situation as further justification for initiatives that he had proposed long before the downturn became apparent.
They included seeking authority from Congress to negotiate international trade agreements. Such a step might benefit the economy in the long run by increasing opportunities to sell American goods abroad, but would be unlikely to come in time to influence the current business cycle.
Mr. Bush also renewed his call for Congress to take steps, like opening up new areas to oil and gas drilling and reducing regulatory restrictions on energy companies to reduce energy costs. Energy prices, however, have already fallen in recent months without any major actions by the government, substantially reducing their drag on the economy.
Mr. Bush's aides said he was confident that the tax cut he signed into law three months ago, combined with the Federal Reserve's campaign of interest rate cuts, would lead the economy to start rebounding by the end of the year.
Today, the Treasury Department sent out the eighth of 10 batches of tax rebate checks of up to $300 for individuals and $600 for couples, money that the administration said should keep consumers spending and help the economy through a temporary rough patch.
Further cuts in income tax rates will take effect in January. 
The president spoke after Democrats stepped up their attacks on the administration's handling of the budget and the economy, saying Mr. Bush had squandered the surplus on an excessive tax cut, pushing up interest rates on Wall Street and undermining confidence among consumers.
"The unemployment level now is at the highest it has been in four years," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic majority leader. "We're at 4.9 percent, and that's intolerable. I think it's a reflection, unfortunately, of the Bush budget and the Bush economy."
Democrats have been working to link the shrinking budget surplus to questions about Mr. Bush's economic management, in part by arguing that Mr. Bush's tax cut is forcing the government to violate pledges by both parties not to use excess money generated by the Social Security tax for other government programs.
The issue became more complex for the White House and its allies in Congress when Mr. Daniels updated the administration's budget outlook for Republican leaders. Last month, the White House projected that the government would barely avoid spending any Social Security money for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.
A few Republicans, including Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, have suggested that using part of the retirement system's surplus would be an acceptable way to ease pressure on the economy and the budget. Mr. Bush and most Republican leaders, however, have stuck to their vows not to touch the Social Security money.
Some Republicans floated a plan today under which any further dissipation of the surplus next year that might force the budget to use Social Security money would lead to an automatic across-the-board spending cut.
The idea was discussed at the White House today by J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, the speaker of the House, and Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican minority leader in the Senate.
Republicans said the idea had considerable political appeal, but many practical problems. Among them, they said, was concern that cutting spending in response to a weakening economy would run counter to the traditional economic theory of what a government should do when confronted with a recession or the risk of one. 
Typically, governments have increased spending during economic slowdowns to give the economy a boost; cutting spending at such times would risk harming the economy, economists say.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush in Washington yesterday with Vice President Dick Cheney, left, Senator Trent Lott and House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); DISMISSALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUDGET FORECASTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (79%); MITCH DANIELS (73%); TRENT LOTT (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001 



205 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Fox Urges Scrapping of 54-Year Treaty Between U.S. and Mexico 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
President Vicente Fox of Mexico called today for the dismantling of a 54-year-old defense treaty between the United States and Latin American nations that was aimed at protecting the hemisphere against Communism and replacing it with pacts that would combat widespread social ills and organized crime.
 Capping his visit to Washington, Mr. Fox said the Inter-American Reciprocal Assistance Treaty had become obsolete with the end of the cold war and that his government, after consulting with other Latin American nations, would decide within the next 60 days whether to withdraw from it. 
 In some ways, the break with a 1947 treaty that has been strongly supported by the United States seemed at odds with the new spirit of friendship between Mr. Fox and President Bush during the Mexican president's first state visit here. But experts said Mr. Fox wanted to send a strong message to the rest of Latin America that his celebrity reception north of the border had not blinded him to the importance of reaching south. 
With his rising international influence as the head of Mexico's most democratically elected government and with his close ties to Mr. Bush, President Fox seemed to be positioning Mexico as the broker for Latin America before the world. 
"Mexico is determined to play an active role in the work that will be required, by its nature and importance, by all the nations of the Americas," Mr. Fox said. "This is the moment to define the new rules and norms that should regulate the world community."
The Inter-American Reciprocal Assistance Treaty was invoked by President John F. Kennedy to persuade Latin American countries to back the blockade of Cuba during the 1962 missile crisis. 
But speaking to the Organization of American States today, Mr. Fox said Communism was no longer the principal threat to the region. And he urged the organization to begin work on the development of new regional strategies that would take on "the real threats that stalk us," including extreme poverty, human rights abuses, environmental degradation and natural disasters.
His speech laid out a broad vision for the economic and social development of the Americas that one foreign policy adviser to Mr. Fox called a "coming-out address."
At the end of his visit to Washington -- during which he urged new trust from the United States government and challenged Congress to adopt sweeping immigration changes -- Mr. Fox also made clear his position to campaign on behalf of Latin America.
He reminded the meeting of the Organization of American States that his first foreign trips as president were to Central and South America. One of his most sweeping promises is to raise international funds for development projects to spur industrial growth in eight southern Mexican states and the seven nations of Central America.
And although talks between his government and the Zapatista rebels of Chiapas in southern Mexico are in a stalemate, Mr. President Fox has sought ideas on resolving the civil conflict in Colombia.
At the O.A.S. meeting today, the president seemed to be positioning his government to serve as a mediator and advocate on behalf of Latin America. It is a role coveted, but never achieved, by his predecessors. But Mr. Fox does not carry the stigma of Mexico's past authoritarian governments, said Peter Hakim of the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington research organization. 
"By the force of his election, he can achieve things his predecessors couldn't" Mr. Hakim said. "President Fox is the embodiment of democratic change."
Lorenzo Meyer, a historian and political analyst in Mexico, said, "Fox needs to show that, even now, as Mexico moves closer than ever to the United States, it will not forsake its independence, nor Latin America."
Mr. Fox also used his speech to make clear that he intends to scrap Mexico's traditional philosophy of nonintervention. He announced that he had sent several initiatives to the Mexican Congress that would, for the first time, commit his country to cooperate with and abide by the judgments of international human rights tribunals.
The measures are the focus of heated debate among Mexicans, some of whom say they are a threat to the country's sovereignty. The critics worry that by taking on a more activist role in international affairs, Mexico will open itself to intervention from abroad.
"The danger is that there are a few subterranean nationalists who will come out and critique President Fox," Mr. Hakim said. "But there is not much resonance anymore for such strident nationalism. I don't think it would go anywhere."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vicente Fox, center, meeting yesterday with Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, left, and J. Dennis Hastert, the House speaker. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); ORGANIZED CRIME (57%); CELEBRITIES (53%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; TREATIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (59%) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (94%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); TOM DASCHLE (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); THOMPSON, GINGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (77%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001 



206 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's President Rewrites the Rules 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Rarely has a foreign leader shown up on the South Lawn of the White House and declared that he and the president of the United States "must" remake the fundamental rules that have governed his country's uneasy relationship with the United States -- and get it done in the next four months.
 Yet for President Vicente Fox of Mexico, that was just a start. On Thursday he used an address to Congress to insist on an end to the humiliating ritual of annually certifying that his country was cracking down on drug traffickers. And he argued that the lawmakers should immediately make good on their Nafta commitment to open American roads to Mexican trucks. Lastly, as he left town, he declared that the collective security pact that for half a century has cemented the military ties between Mexico, the United States and much of Latin America ought to be scrapped and that he might pull out of the pact. 
 Such assertiveness is especially notable because it did not come out of the mouth of the leader of a nuclear power or an economic juggernaut. Yet Mr. Fox seemed to pull it off with aplomb during his remarkable visit here, casting himself not only as a political equal of his friend the American president, but as the leader of Latin America. Often as Mr. Fox spoke, President Bush stood nodding at his side, endorsing his principles, even while fudging on the timetable and the politics of it all.
"In many ways this was the reversal of all the traditional roles between the United States and Mexico," said Robert A. Pastor, a professor at Emory University and a former National Security Council official in the Carter administration, who has long been involved in Mexican-American relations.
"In the past it has been the United States that made all the specific proposals," Mr. Pastor said, "and the Mexicans who said 'yes,' but never said when. This time, President Fox made all the proposals, and it was his good friend President Bush who had to say 'yes,' but couldn't say when."
White House officials said they were not surprised by any of Mr. Fox's proposals, all of which they said had been discussed since intensive talks began in February. But clearly, the two leaders' schedules for accomplishing it all are not in sync -- a reflection of the political pressure on Mr. Fox to move as fast as possible, and the pressure on Mr. Bush to shift into low gear.
If Mr. Fox played the role of equal, rather than junior partner this week, it was Mr. Bush who gave him the opportunity.
In the middle of the presidential campaign last year, Mr. Bush repeatedly heralded his friendship with Mr. Fox, who promised long-delayed economic and political changes. "He's a man I know from Mexico," Mr. Bush said in the presidential debates, when he was under pressure to show some familiarity with foreign affairs. Mr. Bush promised that the two leaders would remake the often strained and unequal relationship between the two countries.
Mr. Bush's first trip abroad was to Mr. Fox's ranch. Once there, he repeated his determination to make the United States-Mexican relationship his top foreign policy priority -- even if the British and the Japanese, not to mention the Russians and the Chinese, cringe every time he utters those words.
Mr. Bush, however, is also discovering that a personal friendship is not enough to create the political environment required to turn their broad, mutual agenda into action.
That is especially true when the subject turns to immigration, the most emotion-laden and complex problem facing the two countries -- and one that divides the Republican Party.
Both men learned how deeply that division runs today. Mr. Fox was received with polite enthusiasm in Congress and earned praise for his commitment to democracy.
But Mr. Fox's visit coincided with the news that unemployment in the United States rose to 4.9 percent in August. In back-room conversations with the White House this week many Republicans made it clear that the coming Congressional election year was not the time to legalize the status of nearly 3.5 million illegal Mexican workers in the United States, even if the effort was couched in neutral-sounding terms like "regularization" of migrants.
"It's going to be very, very difficult," said Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, who strongly supports immigration reform. He agrees with Mr. Fox and Mr. Bush that migrant workers are a critical part of the American economy.
But Mr. Hagel noted that on Thursday night it took enormous political lifting just to extend a modest provision allowing certain illegal immigrants with jobs or family sponsors to remain in the country while applying for a green card. 
"To get that done last night you would have thought it was a matter of declaring war," Mr. Hagel said. A broad program to allow millions of illegal immigrants to obtain legal status, he said, "is going to be very tough when all the marbles are on the table -- American jobs and the control of Congress."
Mr. Bush faces perhaps his staunchest opposition in the House, where the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, and the leader of the panel's immigration subcommittee, Representative George W. Gekas, Republican of Pennsylvania, oppose any legalization of undocumented immigrants.
In the Senate, Republican opponents include Senators Jon Kyl of Arizona and Phil Gramm of Texas, who view any legalization plan as a magnet for lawbreakers. "You earn your way to get here by applying legally and coming legally," Mr. Gramm said. "You don't reward people who violated the law in coming here."
The political pressures flow in the other direction as well. American businesses, a crucial Republican constituency, want access to low-wage migrant workers, and they endorse Mr. Fox's plan for a "guest worker" program. Mr. Bush talks constantly of finding a way for a "willing employer" to strike a deal with a "willing worker," but hedges on how broad an amnesty he might be willing to grant.
But on Thursday, Mr. Bush acknowledged that "to make matters even more complicated, we've got to work with the Congress, and we've got to come up with a solution that Congress can accept." His aides have made it clear that any such deal is not likely by Mr. Fox's deadline of the end of the year. 
In his seven and a half months in office, Mr. Bush has not gone as far out on a limb for any other foreign leader. Clearly he treasures his personal relationship with Mr. Fox -- the kind of leader-to-leader diplomacy that his father favored -- just as he thought it important to emphasize the bond he had created with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
But such friendship has its risks, because it associates Mr. Bush with almost all of Mr. Fox's agenda. For example, Mr. Fox was able to prompt Mr. Bush to say that he would veto legislation that kept Mexican trucks off American roads -- where they are entitled to drive under the Nafta treaty. 
"It was quite amazing to hear President Bush talk about how much he wanted to 'accommodate my friend,' " said Mr. Pastor, the Emory University professor. "But President Bush never came back with a specific vision of where he wanted to go that responded to Fox's vision. That was conspicuously missing." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) SANGER, DAVID E; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (97%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001 



207 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: U.S. JOBLESS RATE IN A JUMP TO 4.9%; BUSH VOWS TO ACT 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The nation's unemployment rate jumped sharply in August to 4.9 percent from 4.5 percent in July, the biggest one-month rise since the spring of 1995, dashing hopes that the bleak economic climate was starting to improve.
 The 4.9 percent jobless rate in August, according to the government's Bureau of Labor Statistics, was the highest since mid-1997. Businesses eliminated more than 100,000 jobs last month, suggesting that the economy remained at risk of falling into a recession. And companies, in an effort to halt steep profit declines, made more cuts this summer in the hours their employees worked. 
 "The economy is facing bigger threats than we had thought," said Jim Glassman, a senior economist at J. P. Morgan Chase. "It's a very weak picture." 
The grim economic news prompted a hastily arranged appearance by President Bush on the White House grounds yesterday, where he sought to assure the public he was aware of the human toll the job losses were taking. Page A9. 
"I want the American people to know we're deeply concerned about the unemployment rates and we intend to do something about it," said Mr. Bush, who has long been aware that the nation's last recession at least in part caused his father to lose his 1992 bid for re-election. 
Mr. Bush called for a "growth plan" to reverse the downturn, but offered no specifics beyond pushing policies that he has advocated before. He urged Congress to move on his proposals for increased energy production and to give him more leeway in negotiating international trade agreements.
The job figures prompted a broad sell-off on Wall Street, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell to its lowest level in almost three years. The dollar also dropped against the euro, and economists said that the Federal Reserve was now likely to keep cutting interest rates until signs of a rebound emerge. Page C1. 
A month ago, the Labor Department had offered some reason for optimism, finding that manufacturers in July cut the fewest jobs in almost a year and reporting a rise in the number of people in the labor force -- those with a job or actively seeking one. But the August numbers erased nearly all of the hopeful signs.
"Today's unemployment numbers are obviously higher than expected," Elaine L. Chao, the secretary of labor, said. "It's disappointing and sobering."
Manufacturing companies -- hurt badly by the plunge in business investment and by the strong dollar, which makes it harder to compete against foreign goods -- accounted for the entire August decline in jobs.
Since early last summer, factories have cut more than one million jobs, or 5.4 percent of their payrolls, and fewer people now work in a manufacturing plant than at any time since 1964. The South and the Midwest have been hardest hit by the manufacturing slump.
Companies in the vast services sector continued to add workers, but at a much slower pace than in recent years. Businesses that are most affected by a slowdown, like restaurants, hotels and movie theaters, cut jobs in August, while doctors' offices, hospitals and other health-care companies added positions.
Most government and Wall Street economists still predict that a rebound is coming soon, though many concede that they have been overly optimistic so far this year. They now say that the $38 billion in tax rebates gives consumers more money to spend -- a point the White House sought to emphasize as well. They also say that the sharp decline in business inventories has set the stage for production increases and that a recent rise in manufacturing orders presages a turnaround.
But they acknowledged that risks remain, chief among them the continued decline in corporate profits that could cause companies to make even deeper jobs cuts. Last month, for example, the Ford Motor Company, in its second major cost-cutting attempt this year, said it would eliminate 5,000 of its 50,000 jobs.
More job reductions could cause consumers to spend less money and leave the economy in a more severe slump. Already, two-thirds of Americans believe that the economy is declining, and most say they plan to save their tax rebate or use it to pay off debt, according to the most recent consumer survey by the University of Michigan.
Even if a rebound does begin in coming weeks, joblessness is likely to continue rising for many months because companies usually do not start rebuilding their workforces until they are confident that business has picked up.
But the report offered little indication that the staff cuts companies have made have gone deep enough to match the declines in sales. The average workweek stayed at 34.1 hours, its lowest two-month average since the government began keeping the statistic almost 40 years ago.
"Companies that had been trying to avoid layoffs are doing it anyway," Mr. Glassman, the Morgan Chase analyst, said. "And despite the cutting they've done, they're not getting ahead of the curve."
The one aspect of the report that gave economists some comfort was the government's revision of its June and July payroll numbers. During those months, the economy was not as weak as the Labor Department had said in its initial estimates: companies and government offices eliminated 86,000 jobs, not 135,000.
In all, the private and public sectors accounted for 132.3 million jobs last month, down 113,000 from July and more than 300,000 from the March peak, according to the Labor Department's payroll survey. Its household survey -- which is used to measure the unemployment rate -- offered an even more pessimistic picture, indicating that 600,000 fewer people are working than at the start of the year.
In either case, the situation is far different from the previous five years, when the economy, on average, added 2.8 million jobs a year.
In the second half of 2000, manufacturers began to suffer as companies -- having decided many of their investments in new buildings, equipment and software would not be profitable -- cut back. With stocks falling and layoffs rising, consumer spending slowed somewhat but has remained strong enough so far to keep the economy barely growing.
By historical standards, unemployment is still relatively low, which has helped keep wages rising. Wages rose at a 3.4 percent annual rate last month, compared with the rise of 3.6 percent averaged over the last year.
In the second quarter, the United States economy grew at an annual rate of just 0.2 percent, according to the Commerce Department's most recent estimate. Many people consider a recession to consist of two consecutive quarters of contraction. Analysts said it was still too early to tell whether the second and third quarters of this year would fall into that category once the government updates its statistics, but yesterday's jobs report increased the chances of that.
The Federal Reserve has tried to revive the economy by repeatedly cutting short-term interest rates this year in an effort to bolster confidence and make it cheaper for businesses and consumers to borrow money. Investors now expect the Fed to reduce its benchmark short-term rate, now at 3.5 percent, by at least another quarter-point and perhaps even by a half-point, when it next meets in October.
Earlier in the week, after a survey of manufacturing executives hinted that industrial output might be on the verge of improving, most investors thought that even a quarter-point cut was unlikely. But yesterday the government said that factories cut another 141,000 jobs, their biggest reduction since July 1998.
Aggravating the weakness in the private sector, government agencies -- local, state and federal -- stopped adding to their payrolls in August. In the coming months, analysts said, government employment is unlikely to rise significantly because the slowdown has cut tax revenues, leaving less money for new programs.
Already, virtually every measure of the labor market has weakened. The average length of unemployment rose to 13.3 weeks, from 12.5 in July.
The unemployment rate for teenagers increased to 16.1 percent, from 14.8 percent in July. And the unemployment rates for blacks, 9.1 percent; Hispanics, 6.3 percent; and whites, 4.3 percent, all rose.
More people stopped looking for work last month than in July. Only those actively looking for a job count in the unemployment rate.

GRAPHIC: ChartThe unemployment rate is on the rise again . . . Chart tracks employment rate from 1997 through 2001. . . . in part because of a decline in the number of manufacturing jobs. Chart tracks number of jobs including Automobile industry strike from 1997 through 2001. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A1) Chart: "The Labor Picture in August" UNEMPLOYMENT Graph tracking the civilian unemployment rate. DEMOGRAPHICS White: 4.3%Black: 9.1Hispanic*: 6.3Men 20 and over: 4.4Women 20 and over: 4.2Teenagers (16-19): 16.1 OUT OF WORK (millions) Total: 7.0Lost job: 3.4Left job: 0.9Returning tolabor market: 2.2New to labor market: 0.5 EMPLOYMENT Graph showing the employment rate results from a household survey and a nonfarm payroll survey. TYPE OF WORK (millions) NonfarmJuly: 132.4Aug.: 132.3 GoodsJuly: 25.1Aug.: 25.0 ServicesJuly: 107.3Aug.: 107.3 AgricultureJuly: 3.0Aug.: 3.1 SHARE OF POPULATION (percent) Work forceJuly: 63.9Aug.: 63.4 Labor force (workers and unemployed)July: 66.9Aug.: 66.6 All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); US DOLLAR (71%); CURRENCIES (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); EURO (62%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (93%) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ELAINE CHAO (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2001 



208 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: CONTRIBUTORS 

 BODY:
 The Photographers

Alyson Aliano ("Driven," P. 159) photographed women and their cars this summer during a 3,700-mile cross-country move in an '89 Ford Taurus. Her work has appeared in a variety of magazines.

Tina Barney ("The Crew," P. 124) is known for her portraits of her family and its upper-class milieu, collected in "Tina Barney: Photographs: Theater of Manners" and "Friends and Relations."

Vanessa Beecroft ("Economy of Desire," P. 72) takes staged portraits of groups of women. Her next performance will take place in Paris in December.

Eve Fowler ("Great Expectations," P. 118) is an artist whose portraits of female wrestlers and football players are on display at the Smithsonian Institution this fall.

Nan Goldin ("Letting Go," P. 116) relocated this year from New York to Paris. She says that her photograph in this issue, of her close friend Valerie and Valerie's boyfriend, reflects a new direction for her work. "These images aren't about a photographer's vicarious thrill or the audience's voyeurism," Goldin says.
"I share a very strong intimacy with these friends." Goldin's latest series will be presented at the Pompidou Center in Paris in October, with original music by Bjork.

Katy Grannan ("Family Values," P. 54) has been photographing young Russian veterans of the war in Chechnya. A collection of her photos will be included in a show this fall at the Stedelijk Museum voor Actuele Kunst in Ghent, Belgium.

Lauren Greenfield ("Beheld," P. 132, and "Big Women on Campus," P. 148) is working on "Girl Culture," a book that will examine how young women express themselves by decorating their bodies.

Naomi Harris ("Knowing Her Place," P. 44) is chronicling the lives of senior citizens in the only residence hotel in her body-conscious neighborhood in South Beach in Miami.

Brenda Ann Kenneally ("Hard Time," P. 152) is the recipient of the 2000
W. Eugene Smith Award for Humanistic Photography. She has spent the last
five years shooting drug-dependent inner-city women in New York City.

Justine Kurland ("Portrait of the Artists," P. 39, and "Women Among Women," P. 96) is working on "Spirit West," a book of photos of groups of girls.

Gillian Laub ("In Sync," P. 110) studied at the International Center of Photography in New York.

Sally Mann (Cover and portrait on P. 93) has been photographing southern landscapes for the past nine years. Her portraits of her children are part of the permanent collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Whitney Museum. For this issue, Mann created two new self-portraits with her daughters, Jessie, now 19, and Virginia, now 16.

Malerie Marder (What They Were Thinking, P. 88) is a portraitist who lives in Venice, Calif. A solo show of her work will appear at Interim Art in London in December.

Mary Ellen Mark ("Keeper of the Flame," P. 126) has published 12 collections of her work during her 35-year career. This year she was presented with the Cornell Capa Infinity Award by the International Center of Photography.

Katie Murray ("Head of the Class," P. 52) was recently selected as one of Photo District News's 30 photographers under 30.

Lise Sarfati ("Interior Life," P. 142) is a Magnum photographer who lives in Paris and works mostly in Russia. Her book "Acta Est" was published last year by Phaidon.

Barbel Schmidt ("Walking Away," P. 180) is working on a series of photographs of elderly women in her native Germany wearing traditional attire.

Bastienne Schmidt ("Blood Sisters," P. 74) is a German photojournalist now living in New York. Her show "Vivir la Muerte" has traveled to Cologne, New Orleans and Stuttgart.

Zoe Selsky ("Force Majeure," P. 43) is a photojournalist in Bogota, Colombia.

Joyce Tenneson ("Generations," P. 138) has just completed a collection of portraits of women over the age of 65 for her next book, "Wise Women."

Diana Walker ("The Freshman," P. 104) spent the last 20 years covering the White House, beginning with the Reagan administration.

Ann Weathersby ("Stranger in the House," P. 84) begins her M.F.A. in photography at Yale University this fall. She is currently shooting photographs for a book on kinship adoption.

Jessica Wynne ("Garden Party," P. 108), a portrait artist, graduated from the Yale M.F.A. program in 1999. Her portraits are in the permanent collection of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.

The Writers

Diane Cardwell ("In Sync," P. 110) is a Metro reporter for The Times.

Lisa Carver ("Letting Go," P. 116) is a columnist for Nerve.com and the author of "Dancing Queen: The Lusty Adventures of Lisa Crystal Carver."

Ted Conover ("Hard Time," P. 152) is the author, most recently, of "Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing," an account of his experiences working inside a maximum-security prison.

Debra Dickerson ("Generations," P. 138), a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, is the author of "An American Story."

Doris Kearns Goodwin ("Garden Party," P. 108), is a Pulitzer Prize-winning historian and author. She is at work on a book about Abraham Lincoln.

Michael Ignatieff ("Blood Sisters," P. 74) is the director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard and the co-author of the coming collection "Human Rights as Politics and Idolatry."

Robert Knafo ("Economy of Desire," P. 72) writes about the arts for Slate.

Sara Mosle ("Head of the Class," P. 52) is writing a book about East Texas in the 1930's.

Dee Dee Myers ("The Freshman," P. 104), a contributing editor for Vanity Fair, was the White House press secretary in 1993 and 1994.

William Norwich ("The Crew," P. 124) is the entertaining editor of the magazine.

Cynthia Ozick ("Interior Life," P. 142) is the author of "Quarrel & Quandary," a collection of essays to be published in paperback this fall.

Ann Patchett ("Women Among Women," P. 96) is the author, most recently, of the novel "Bel Canto."

Robin Pogrebin ("Knowing Her Place," P. 44) is a reporter on the culture desk of The Times.

Somini Sengupta ("Stranger in the House," P. 84) is a Metro reporter for The Times.

Samantha M. Shapiro ("Keeper of the Flame," P. 126) is a freelance writer in New York City.

Jane Smiley ("Driven," P. 159) is the author, most recently, of "Horse Heaven" and is now working on a novel about the Reagan years.

Deborah Solomon ("Portrait of the Artists," P. 39), a regular contributor to the magazine, is the author of "Utopia Parkway: The Life and Work of Joseph Cornell."

Amy M. Spindler ("Beheld," P. 132) is the style editor of the magazine.

Margaret Talbot ("In the Balance," P. 91) is a senior fellow at the New America Foundation and a contributing writer for the magazine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); WOMEN (78%); FAMILY (76%); THEATER (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); CITY LIFE (60%); WRESTLING (54%); VETERANS (50%) PHOTOGRAPHY; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (56%) NEW YORK TIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



209 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 91

LENGTH: 3029 words

HEADLINE: IN THE BALANCE; 
Women And Power In 2001.

BYLINE:  By Margaret Talbot 

 BODY:
The most powerful women in my life are my sister and my baby sitter. My sister is eight years older than I am, so when I was a child and she was a teenager, she enjoyed the status of a queen as far as I was concerned. She had waist-length blond hair, boyfriends, an abundance of purple garments, important moods -- and political beliefs that sometimes prevented her from going to school. (During the Vietnam War, she once persuaded my mother to write a note to her high-school principal that read: "Please excuse Cindy's absence yesterday. She was sick -- sick of war.") As we got older, the age gap between us seemed to narrow, and we grew steadily closer. But in the meantime, Cindy had become a doctor, adding a layer of professional expertise to her big-sisterly mystique, and I had become, among other things, a hypochondriac and a mother. Cindy is an uncannily good diagnostician, quick to piece together scattered clues and reveal truths about underlying ailments in a way that strikes me as magical, though I suppose it has as much to do with how attentively she listens as with any actual occult powers. 
 There is no one whose advice carries more weight for me. Often, her role is to reassure. Last spring, though, I called Cindy after my husband became suddenly and mysteriously ill. When I told her the diagnosis, she said, "I'm flying out there today," which meant leaving Portland, Ore., for Washington, D.C., and I knew instantly that my husband and I were in deep trouble. Part of me attributes his eventual recovery to Cindy's divinely nudgy presence, hovering over the doctors in charge of his case. Sometimes I think there is no power like the power of professional knowledge and competence, alloyed with emotional pull, that my sister has over me. 
 My baby sitter is a different matter. By most conventional measures, I realize, Maria Luisa would not be considered a powerful person. She is an immigrant; her English is a little shaky; she cannot lay claim to a great deal of professional status. But I am dependent on her to the point of fear -- and often, unhappiness. Without her, I could not work, meaning write, which I sometimes hate and sometimes love but in either case have to do, for reasons both economic and emotional. It is true, of course, that I could hire someone else. But losing her would be sort of like a divorce, something to be approached with foreboding and gravity and handled with delicacy; she has been an intimate part of my kids' lives, after all, for as long as they can remember. Recently, when she became convinced, for complicated reasons, that we were using one of those nanny-cams on her, a pall fell over our household. I was depressed that she would believe such a thing of us; she was chagrined that she had. We talked about this misapprehension for hours, first over the phone, then later standing in my kitchen with cold cups of coffee in our hands; for days, I could think of nothing else. 
Maria Luisa and I each have powers and privileges the other wants, at least some of the time. I am envious of her because she gets to bring her baby to work; she is envious of me because I get to go to an office. She worries that her American-born, almost-teenage daughter will be ashamed of her because she's a nanny; I worry that my children are spending too much time in somebody else's care. We step around each other with exaggerated politeness, carefully broaching subtle but loaded disagreements about how to treat a cold or a disciplinary crisis. Most days, I am convinced she doesn't like me, or at any rate, resents me in the way people resent their bosses. Yet I know she loves my children and they love her. When my 2-year-old pretends to talk on the phone, it is always to her. This is all familiar stuff to any working mother who depends, as so many of us do, on paid help. But I continue to marvel every day at a relationship that belongs so inextricably to both the marketplace and the heart. 
I know that when I think about women and power, I am not really supposed to think about relationships like these. The phrase is supposed to call to mind the sort of photo spreads you see in magazines from time to time -- female C.E.O.'s in fire-engine-red suits and Hollywood mogulettes in sunglasses. And in a vague, distant sort of way, I guess I'm glad that Carly Fiorina is the head of Hewlett-Packard and that actresses as young as Drew Barrymore can get their own production companies nowadays. But truthfully, the sort of power they wield doesn't impinge much on my life, or on the lives of many women I know, and it interests me less than maybe it should. Other sorts of female power -- complicated, quotidian, intimate, ambiguous -- do. And these, as it happens, are the kinds of female power this issue of the magazine explores: women finding fun and solace in one another's inspiriting company; women in moments of toughness and in mobility; women displaying beauty and brazenness; women reveling in motherhood or in the chance to shut out the social demands of femininity and concentrate on the work at hand.
When the editors here first started talking about a photo issue on women and power, though, even they were kind of dubious. It would be naive, they realized, to gin up something purely triumphalist about all the places women were that they once were not -- a glossy pageant of slick professionals with the occasional foxy female steelworker thrown in for good measure. But it would be naive in a different way to deny that the postfeminist world is a fundamentally different place, a place where women have more freedom, autonomy, sense of possibility and, yes, power, than at any other time in history. 
Once you give the slightest thought to the topic, after all, you find yourself tangled in contradictions. On the one hand, for example, there are 13 women in the U.S. Senate now, more than ever before, and only one of them got there through the once-traditional route of widowhood. And on the other hand, a female president still seems a misty prospect. There are more female doctors and lawyers, but comparatively few female media barons or dot-com entrepreneurs. There are more images of female derring-do for little girls to enjoy, but a lot of them are examples of ditz-power -- bubbleheads with fists of fury, like the Powerpuff Girls. There are certainly more female athletes than when I was growing up in the 60's and 70's, and they have fans and cultural cachet, too. But then again, maybe it really wasn't such a stretch to start celebrating another kind of female physicality, a different supremely beautiful body type. While American women enjoy the legal rights and cultural visibility that might be called, for short, power, there are places in the world where honor killings or female infanticide make womanhood seem like the very definition of powerlessness. And so on. Pick your own contradictions. 
Besides, power is an ineffable thing, forever on the move, forever changing form. A woman might be powerful in one context (say, her home) and a weakling in another (her place of employment). A woman can be, or at least feel, deliriously powerful for the very reasons -- youth, beauty -- that make her vulnerable to exploitation. (Personally, I have never felt more powerful than when I was 17 and cute and full of hope about who I might be.) A woman can be powerful by virtue of her personality, sexuality, professional expertise, class, religion, race -- or not, depending on any of those things. Even within feminism itself, there are bitter disagreements over what power actually means; to cite one random example, there are feminists who argue that when women get plastic surgery, they are exercising choice and, by extension, power, and there are those who argue that such women are abject victims of false consciousness. 
Still, as the feminist historian Sheila Rowbotham has put it, those sorts of contradictions make for "a much more muddled picture -- and a far more interesting history. . . . Women have experienced the fracturing of feminine identity in the course of this century and somehow accommodated to living the split." How they have done so is what fascinates. It certainly doesn't make sense to look at power as some monolithic entity -- like one of those mysterious energy sources in cartoons -- to which women do or do not have some precisely measurable access. But I think many of us still want to know how certain forms of power change women or themselves change when women are in possession of them. Women with real worldly power are still enough of a novelty that we are frankly curious about them and the way they resolve (or smooth over) the discontinuities between their public and private selves, discontinuities that seem more jarring, somehow, for women than for men. In magazine profiles of working-mom C.E.O.'s or politicians, there is often a moment when they point to the peanut-butter or grape-juice stain on their power suit, as if to show that they, too, had to fight their way out of the house that morning. It is no surprise that one of the most powerful women in America today, Martha Stewart, has built a media empire on the idea that messy domesticity can be tamed, aestheticized and handled with calm, craftsmanlike respect.
Maybe a certain amount of ambivalence, just natural emotional ambivalence, is the reason women in power sometimes seem to enjoy their power a little less than men do. It is hard to feel really jazzed about it when you feel torn -- and not necessarily guilty but truly and painfully and permanently undecided about where you belong. "It's not guilt, you fool," a working mother imagines telling her partner in "Getting a Life," Helen Simpson's excellent new short-story collection. "It's the unwelcome awareness that being daily ripped in half is not good, not even ultimately." Ambivalence of some kind is a natural condition of maturity, though, so most women simply go on living with it, knowing that they have no choice and that it is also a kind of gift. (We're ambivalent about ambivalence.) Every powerful woman I know looks tired most of the time, exhaustion being the natural concomitant of ambivalence, of combining at least two lives into one. Eavesdrop anywhere that, say, working mothers congregate in the morning (the subway, Starbucks, the entrance to the preschool), and you will hear them starting conversations about how tired they are and then dropping the subject -- what's the point, really? 
Maybe women with power seem a little grimmer about it than men, though, because it doesn't get them the goodies that it does for men. A woman with power in business or politics does not by dint of that particular form of power become a collector of young males. Indeed, there is something unthinkable, vaguely horrifying about the scenario of a sexually predatory female politician; whereas the sexually predatory male politician is merely embarrassing, maybe scandalous. Partly, this is because a woman who obtains power -- via something other than her beauty or sexuality, anyway -- usually obtains it at an age when she is no longer widely considered sexually attractive. (This chronology holds true for men, too, but age doesn't seem to limit their sexual possibilities in the same way.) Last year's movie "The Contender" was unusual in its portrayal of a female politician facing allegations about her randy past. But in the end, even it backed away from the idea of a mature woman with both political power and erotic license; the sexual innuendo about Joan Allen's character turned out to be a lie that she was too proud to refute. 
I have a friend who insists that in England things are rather different and that she knew men there who thought of Margaret Thatcher as a temptress. She says it is because of the royal tradition, a cultural memory of enormously powerful women who are also evidently sexual creatures. I don't know -- but at any rate, there doesn't seem to be much of an equivalent here. On the contrary, in Hillary Clinton we have a perfect example of the opposite phenomenon: the way in which humiliation at the hands of a philandering husband can "humanize" a woman who seems a little too powerful, making her more popular and ultimately more powerful, especially if she seems to weather the crisis with dignity. 
These days when we think about women and power, we are usually thinking about worldly, professional power. We tend to define power for women as admittance to a career or a position that men once dominated. But occasionally, this leads to some questionable assumptions. Is a woman working as a prison guard for male convicts -- a poorly paid, hazardous, often demeaning job for the men who do it -- really a powerful person? It also allows us to overlook the power in some traditionally feminine attributes and roles -- motherhood, for instance. This is not a cultural moment when we look on mothers as particularly powerful figures. It is not like, say, the 1950's, when the bad mother portrayed in best-selling advice books and magazines was a scarily potent character, capable of causing autism, homosexuality and the spread of Communism, while the good mother, like a domesticated superhero, upheld the American Way. Since comparatively few Americans today insist that only mothers ought to be taking care of children, it doesn't pay to make too strong a case for maternal influence. Moreover, we are no longer standing directly in the cultural shadow of psychoanalysis, in which mothers appeared as giants, responsible for fostering healthy sexuality and robust individuation in their children or for warping the whole process irrevocably. Today, when genes and brain chemistry loom larger than nurture, what mothers do seems a little less crucial, in some ways, to how in the end their children turn out. Which is a relief, but also a ceding of power. Around my house, where I am grateful to share most jobs with my husband, I can never be the domestic authority that my mother was and that I sometimes long to be. I am not the only one in my family who remembers when the kids need a checkup or what spices we have on hand. I am not the repository of all the critical bits of knowledge that keep a household going. 
There is another form of female power we don't seem to recognize much anymore, and that is the power of the civically virtuous volunteer, the tireless builder of social capital. A few weeks ago, I attended a memorial service for an elderly neighbor named Jane. I hadn't known Jane well, but she had always been sweet to us. Once she brought me an armful of pink-tinged white peonies from her garden, a few days after I mentioned that they were my favorite flower. Her memorial service gave me a whole different impression, of someone who might have seemed mild-mannered but who, in her community, had been an important, charismatic and much relied-upon person. The church was packed, though a noisy electrical storm raged outside, and person after person got up to testify about Jane's good works, her volunteering at the National Gallery of Art and for the homeless and the D.C. schools; to recall how she and her husband, who had raised two boys and taken various lost souls into their big old stone house, loved their neighborhood and their city and their church; about how she had sung in the same church choir every Sunday for 50 years. It struck me that few of us who work outside the home, whatever our career status, could claim to have touched as many lives. 
This issue of the magazine looks at power in some unexpected forms, partly, I think, because women are doing the looking. Feminists of the 70's and 80's used to talk a lot about the "male gaze." This issue is dominated by the female gaze: all of the photographs were taken by women. 
If image-making is a form of power, does it make us see women differently? I think so. The differences aren't huge, but then, despite what the Mars and Venus crowd might claim, neither are the differences between men and women. Indeed, some of the photographs are stylized, self-consciously formal, even rather frosty portraits -- see the images of women in groups, for example -- which do not reflect a particularly relaxed intimacy between female photographer and female subjects.
What you do see in many of these photographs, though, are women who look a little more serious-minded and less obligingly smiling than women are often pictured as being -- a little more self-contained and caught up in what they are doing. You see women who are not afraid of close-ups that show wrinkles and imperfections -- the sweet and exhausting toll even lives they recognize as impossibly rich can take on them. (See, for example, the tired and sober-looking lawyers on Page 118.) You see women who have grown accustomed to being in large groups of other women, whose enclosed societies remind you that even in our gender-integrated culture, there are times (the end of life) and places (sweatshops, the midday playground) in which women are almost exclusively in the company of other women. You see young women who are used to projecting their toughness and their independence from men, like some of those in the women-and-their-cars series. Finally, you see women who occupy positions of power without declaiming they do, women who are too busy living their full and contradictory and crazy-quilt lives to think much about being Powerful Women. 
It is a feeling similar to the one I get from my favorite picture of my sister. It is an old snapshot of Cindy at work in blue scrubs, helping a patient deliver a baby; for years, I kept it in a frame on my desk. Truth be told, I think it grossed my male colleagues out a bit -- there is a certain amount of blood in the picture -- but I just loved it. In it, Cindy is an emblem of pure concentration, her hands firmly cupping a baby with the umbilical cord still attached, her arms draped with some sort of plastic tubing, her eyes betraying no interest whatsoever in the camera. Nonetheless, you can't help but noticing the big silver earrings glinting behind her thick blond hair. She is totally immersed, yet she looks damn good. I like that, too. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mann at right, with her daughters Jessie, 19, and Virginia, 16, on a recent afternoon at the family farm just outside of Rockbridge Baths. Va. (Sally Mann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%) CHILDREN AND YOUTH; BABY SITTERS; WOMEN 

PERSON: TALBOT, MARGARET 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (54%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



210 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/MacArthur Airport; 
Busy Runways Spur Development, and Vice Versa

BYLINE:  By CAROLE PAQUETTE 

 BODY:
PAUL T. FORTUNATO remembers driving his car to Long Island MacArthur Airport in Islip about 20 years ago and parking on the grass in front of the terminal to take a "little twin-prop Mohawk Airlines plane to Albany."
 Since then, that grassy area has been swallowed up by the parking lots for the airport, which now serves more than two million passengers a year. "Who would have ever thought the airport would grow up like this?" Mr. Fortunato asked. 
 Development around the airport, which is on Veterans Memorial Highway in central Suffolk County, has grown as well. Since the mid-1980's, when the town of Islip created its seven-mile industrial corridor district along the state highway, with the town-owned airport as its anchor, development has more than tripled. Planners credit the industrial district for the airport's growth. 
The industrial district is "one of the glowing successes on Long Island," said Lee Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board and a former Suffolk County planning director. 
"Thirty-five years ago," he said, "the Suffolk County Planning Department strongly recommended that the land around MacArthur not be zoned residential, but for industrial development -- all for uses related to the fact that there is an airport there. If it had been zoned residential, the airport wouldn't have succeeded, and as a job generator it is one of the strongest areas on Long Island." 
The district was set up to "minimalize retail and strip commercial development and to promote industrial and office development," said Daniel Gulizio, Islip's planning commissioner. "Because of the convenience of the airport, it has encouraged businesses to locate along the highway."
The number of passengers using the airport rose to 2.3 million last year, from 115,000 in 1980, spurred by Southwest Airlines' arrival at MacArthur in 1999. The passenger numbers rose to to 1.9 million that year from 905,000 in 1998.
The airport, which is on 1,300 acres, completed a $13 million renovation last year, expanding its terminal to 63,300 square feet from 45,300 and doubling the ticket centers and baggage claim areas. This year, Southwest, a highly successful discount airline, proposed a $35 million terminal for its own use that would include building additional runways. The airport now has four runways ranging from 3,275 feet to 7,000 feet.
The industrial corridor district includes property within 300 feet of both sides of Veterans Memorial Highway beginning at the Long Island Expressway and running southeast to Sunrise Highway. Growth in the district -- which runs through Bohemia, Ronkonkoma and Holbrook -- peaked between 1979 and 1991, according to Roy Fedelem, principal planner at the Suffolk County Planning Department. In 1979 there were 1,568 vacant acres and 463 developed for industry. By 1991, there were 823 vacant acres, and the rest had been developed. The industrial corridor was set up in 1985 in "the midst of the growth period" when development came close to 200 acres a year, Mr. Fedelem said. 
Some parcels are still left, the largest being 135 acres in the Holbrook section of the district owned by Serota Properties of Syosset, which has submitted preliminary plans for developing the site. 
Before the district was created, the area had been zoned for light industry and manufacturing. Building was permitted on a minimum lot of a half acre and a width of 100 feet, according to Thomas A. Isles, director of planning for Suffolk County and former Islip planning commissioner. The new district, he said, "upgraded the quality of development to minimum lots of three acres and a width of 300 feet and increased the landscaping standards." 
SINCE then, the 60-year-old airport has played a major role in the construction and real estate business of the Fortunato family, which was founded by Bernard R. Fortunato in the 1940's. 
Its development company, Fortunato Sons Inc., which is operated by Bernard R. Fortunato Jr., built the new 18,000-square-foot extension to MacArthur's terminal and more than 20 industrial and office buildings in the corridor. These included 70,000 square feet of renovations and additions at the Federal Aviation Administration complex at the airport's entrance and the 95,000-square-foot world headquarters for Selchow & Righter, the board game manufacturer. 
Fortunato's offices, along with those of its real estate business, Fortunato Development Inc., headed by Paul T. Fortunato, are in the Airport Corporate Center, which includes five buildings on 25 acres across the highway from the airport. 
A major property owner in the corridor is the Reckson Associates Realty Corporation, a publicly traded real estate investment trust, which owns approximately 4.6 million square feet of office buildings in Nassau and Suffolk. Reckson owns 25 buildings across from the airport, totaling 1.3 million square feet, and has room for an additional 74,000 square feet of buildings, said Kathleen Giamo, senior vice president and director of corporate development for Reckson.
"The airport now plays a big part, as it makes it easier for business people to commute," Ms. Giamo said. "It is becoming a major corporate commuter-type place that makes it more attractive on a national corporate level."
Mr. Isles said: "There are still traffic issues in terms of Vets Highway to handle the increased growth. It has to catch up at some point."
If the entire corridor is built out, "there will be deterioration of some service, such as transportation." he said. "There are two solutions: the state has to do something, and private developers have to help by upgrading their property with turning lanes."
According to Ms. Giamo, Reckson dedicated land to the state and built a third lane for traffic to its newest group of buildings, which are across the highway from the airport. The 442,000-square-foot complex, completed in 1999, is the second phase of Reckson's Airport International Plaza. It includes four buildings on 39 acres one block east of its first industrial park in the corridor, which was built in the late 1970's.
That complex had 33 buildings -- more than one million square feet -- on 200 acres. While some of the buildings have been sold, Reckson continues to own 21 buildings in the first Airport International Plaza complex.
Early this year, Fortunato opened a 60,000-square-foot new building at its 15-year-old Airport Corporate Center complex, across the highway from the airport entrance. With nine acres remaining on the property, the company has plans to expand further, Bernard Fortunato Jr. said. "At this time we have half a million square feet of buildings," he said. "We may expand to close to a million."
The growth of Islip's Veterans Highway industrial district has those in the commercial real estate business looking at it as an alternative to the 14-million-square-foot Hauppauge Industrial Park, which is five miles north on 1,400 acres.
There is a lack of available space in western Suffolk and the Hauppauge Industrial Park is built up, Ms. Giamo said. "This location is a natural place to go," she said. 
"The airport is definitely a benefit, opening up a whole new area for companies to do business with us."
Mr. Fortunato said: "In the last 10 years, this area had been a submarket to Hauppauge. Now we have grown up to be our own market."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of Fortunato family at the airport, which they helped expand: Jodi, Bernard R. and Bernard R. Jr. (Ed Betz for The New York Times) Map of Long Island highlighting Islip

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); ZONING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); COUNTIES (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); TRENDS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BUILDING RENOVATION (65%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ZONING; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; AIRPORTS; MACARTHUR AIRPORT (LONG ISLAND, NY); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: PAQUETTE, CAROLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) ISLIP (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



211 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: At Odds With Affluent Neighbor 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT WORTH 

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON 

 BODY:
MOST of the time, Mayor Ernest D. Davis is affable and easygoing, given to philosophical musings about his city and its people. But when his dispute with the neighboring village of Pelham comes up, his patience evaporates. 
 The mayor has talked for years about a plan to build a sprawling $50 million mall along Sandford Boulevard, just across the Hutchinson River Parkway from Pelham. The city now has commitments from several major retailers, including Target and TJ Maxx, and if the final approvals go through, the developer could break ground as early as next month, said Gerrie Post, the city's planning commissioner. 
 But residents and officials in the more affluent town of Pelham are bent on stopping the project.
They say it would endanger children as they cross Sandford Boulevard from Pelham's middle and high schools to the district's playing fields, next to the mall site. And it would worsen traffic on the Hutchinson River Parkway. The town and village of Pelham have filed suit to block the project, along with the village of Pelham Manor and the school board.
Mr. Davis has a word for his opponents: racist. "You don't have to be a rocket scientist to see it," he said. "It's a group of white folks getting together to deny darker folks their just due."
He conceded that the mall would bring more traffic but he said it could be managed effectively. The main issue, he said, is economic justice: Mount Vernon needs the jobs and sales tax revenue the mall would provide. The city has rezoned the property and partnered with the developer, G&S Investors of Old Bethpage, N.Y. It has also transferred a $10 million loan for a hotel project to the mall.
Some Pelham residents say Mr. Davis has made things worse by accusing them of racism and refusing to compromise. 
"If Ernie wanted to be more than a visionary and actually find a way to reach a compromise to get this thing built," said Michael Volpe, a Pelham Town Council member, "he could approach that with us right now." 
But Mr. Davis has made clear that he is willing to use his considerable political influence to get what he wants. 
"Mount Vernon is the most predictable Democratic vote in the county," he said. "If I don't get that project I'll campaign against you." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAILERS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); ZONING (72%); LITIGATION (72%); SALES TAX (71%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (70%); APPROVALS (70%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); RACE & RACISM (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: T J MAXX (57%)

PERSON: DAVIS, ERNEST D (MAYOR); WORTH, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) MOUNT VERNON (NY); PELHAM (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



212 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Environment Bucks Stop Here 

BYLINE:  By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
VENTURING more deeply into local politics than ever before, the New York League of Conservation Voters, an influential statewide environmental group, has gone beyond endorsements to recruit and campaign for environmentally minded local candidates on the East End.
 A key test of the league's assertive new strategy will come on Tuesday in the Republican primary for supervisor in Riverhead, now the fastest-developing of the five East End towns. In the closely watched race, the candidate backed by the league, Judi Pitsiokos, a lawyer in Wading River, is challenging Robert Kozakiewicz, the first-term supervisor. 
 Mr. Kozakiewicz, also a lawyer, has across-the-board support from the local Republican Party and from federal, state and local Republican elected officials. But the league and other environmental groups say that he is a willing supporter of development and that he has thwarted preservation efforts. 
Mrs. Pitsiokos has promised to advance an environmental agenda that would include a one-year moratorium on development while the town makes plans to control growth. 
Unlike nearly all other environmental groups, the league, which is based in Manhattan and which refers to itself the political arm of the state's formidable network of environmental groups, has a tax status that allows it to endorse political candidates and to contribute to their campaigns. It has singled out the East End towns because it says that elected officials there will soon be making crucial decisions about land and groundwater preservation.
Since those decisions will likely determine the fate of the remaining open land on the East End, which is still semirural, the league is putting a high priority on the election of candidates committed to environmental programs. 
The league said that it expects to raise up to $100,000 to support selected candidates for town offices in primaries and the general election in November. It is placing emphasis on the Towns of Riverhead and Southampton, where the pace of development has been the most intense.
That amount would be a pittance in a national campaign and a fraction of the money spent for major Long Island political contests like those for county executive. But it is substantial for town-level races.
Because towns hold zoning and planning powers, the winners in these local elections will play central roles in making land-use decisions that may include rezoning, building moratoriums, and the use of public money for open-space preservation and groundwater protection.
This has not been lost on the league and other environmental groups. 
"We have become more and more convinced that the best place to effect changes is on the local level," said Marcia Bystryn, the league's executive director who lives in Manhattan and has a second home in Remsenburg. "And we decided that strategically investing our resources on the East End offers the best opportunity to do that. There is a very narrow window of opportunity here to protect open space on the East End. To be effective we have to be effective political players. The developers have known that for a long time." 
She said the league was paying particular attention to the East End because "it's where the stakes are highest and the chances of success greatest." But she acknowledged that efforts in recent months to recruit candidates had been only partly successful. "A campaign is a major investment in an individual's time, particularly when you don't have the support of the party," she said. 
In Riverhead, Mrs. Pitsiokos, a former school board chairwoman, has been the exception. She said that in door-to-door canvassing she found preservation sentiment and distress over the pace of development running high among Republican voters.
"I am not looking at this as a long shot," she said. "I expect to win. The Republican leaders have underestimated the intelligence of the Republican voters of Riverhead. They are not stupid. They see what is happening."
She said the 2,700 houses currently proposed in Riverhead were more than the combined total for the other four East End towns: Southampton, East Hampton, Shelter Island and Southold. 
Mrs. Pitsiokos has been aided by advertising on her behalf placed and paid for by the league. The ads say that under Mr. Kozakiewicz the town has compiled "the worst record on the East End for open-space and farmland preservation." The league also contends that developers are prominent among contributors to the Kozakiewicz campaign.
Mr. Kozakiewicz said the league was distorting his record and blamed much of current development on the prior town administration. He also charged that Richard L. Amper Jr., the executive director of the Long Island Pine Barrens Society, a nonprofit Riverhead group whose tax status does not allow it to be involved in political campaigns, was masterminding the campaign against him. Mr. Amper is a board member of the league and a well-known environmental leader.
"I believe he is very much behind my opponent's campaign," Mr. Kozakiewicz said. He said he had displeased Mr. Amper because "I have not jumped on board and followed his every whim."
Mr. Amper said he was not involved in running the Pitsiokos campaign. "He is trying to make an issue out of an individual instead of facing the recognition of the people of his town that development is out of control," he said. 
Mr. Kozakiewicz and other Republicans in the town said the league had no business in Riverhead. "I question their motivation to come out here and become involved in a local election," he said.
The chairman of the Riverhead Republican Committee, Bruce Stuke, said Mrs. Pitsiokos was among 11 people the committee screened for council seats but was not selected. He described the league as an out-of-town group.
"The Town of Riverhead can handle preservation and farm programs on its own," said Mr. Stuke, who is in his third term as a member of the town's Zoning Board of Appeals. "There is an awful lot of development in the town, but most of it is good growth."
The league, which contends that current development is destroying the town's environmental and economic base, plans to support the Democratic candidate for supervisor, Anne Moroh, if Mrs. Pitsiokos loses the Republican primary. But the league has not yet decided which of the women it would back in November if Mrs. Pitsiokos wins.
The league's strategy in Southampton went awry when the candidate it was backing in the Republican primary for town council, Alexander D. Gregor of Hampton Bays, was knocked off the ballot by the courts after town Republican leaders accused him of having some invalid signatures on his nominating petitions. 
The league had hoped that Mr. Gregor, an environmental contractor and the owner of a well-drilling company, would defeat one of two candidates supported by the Republican Party, Ann LaWall and Linda Kabot, whom it regards as development supporters. Mr. Gregor's victory in the November election would, in the league's view, have added a third environmentally minded member to the five-member town board.
Both women said they were environmentalists and attacked the league for backing a Democratic candidate for Town Council, Dennis A. Suskind of Bridgehampton, who they said was a land developer. Mr. Suskind, a retired partner in Goldman, Sachs, the investment bank, said there was "absolutely no truth" to the assertion.
Amie Hamlin, the director of the league's Long Island chapter, said the league thoroughly investigated candidates before supporting them and firmly backed Mr. Suskind. 
"All candidates say they are environmentalists but their opponents aren't," said Ms. Hamlin, who lives in Brookhaven. "It is our job to distinguish, and that's what we have done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judi Pitsiokos, a Republican candidate for Riverhead town supervisor, campaigning at a Polish festival. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); POLITICS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ZONING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (67%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (64%); WATER QUALITY (63%) ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; ENDORSEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (91%) NEW YORK LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



213 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 2272 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/The Financial District; 
In Wall Street's Canyons, Cliff Dwellers

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
IN "The Death and Life of Great American Cities," her famous treatise on the liveliness of city neighborhoods, Jane Jacobs deplored central business districts that were not also used for residential or cultural purposes. As the primary example of one such neighborhood, she described downtown New York, noting the restaurants there that were mobbed at lunch but did not offer dinner at all.
 "To see what is wrong," she wrote, "it is only necessary to observe the deathlike stillness that settles on the district after 5:30 and all day Saturday and Sunday." 
 That was 1961. Forty years later, things have changed in the section of the city that contains the New York Stock Exchange, the World Trade Center and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Evening in the financial district offers a sight that would have been a rarity four years ago, unthinkable 40 years ago: side by side with the idling black Lincoln Town Cars waiting for their Wall Street fares are casually dressed men and women leisurely returning home from restaurants and grocery stores and walking their dogs. 
"The transformation has been dramatic," said Francis Greenburger, chief executive of Time Equities Inc., which owns half a dozen residential buildings in the area. "Not that it's thriving at night, but now there's a background to the area, a more 24-hour feeling."
New museums and hotels in the area -- there are 10 hotels and 13 major museums in the area and more on the way -- partly account for that. So does Battery Park City, with more museums and residential and commercial buildings, to the west. But the main engine driving the changes is thousands of new residents who have poured in in the last five years.
After the recession of 1990-1991, office vacancy rates downtown were persistently high, with some buildings standing empty. City officials and neighborhood boosters adapted by encouraging office buildings to convert to residential use. "Jane Jacobs has really stood the test of time," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, the city's largest business improvement district in terms of area and budget.
IN 1995, the city began offering tax incentives to owners who converted downtown commercial properties to residential use under the Lower Manhattan Revitalization Plan. Since then, according to the Alliance, more than 5,000 apartments have been created in 51 formerly commercial buildings.
"In 1997 the financial district was a very speculative area," said Andrew S. Heiberger, chief executive of Citi Habitats, the large rental broker. "It was certainly known as a secondary neighborhood and by all the other words that real estate people don't like to hear like 'transitional' and 'alternative,' " Now, he said, it is now a strong market in its own right.
The vast majority of the recent conversions created rental apartments. "Any time you have a new neighborhood, generally the first people who move in are renters," said Brian G. Edwards, director of leasing for the Halstead Property Company. "Then conversions to home ownership begin as the neighborhood becomes more stable."
Because the area was not an established residential neighborhood, building owners invested heavily in amenities to make the converted structures attractive as apartment buildings. "At first they were concerned about attracting tenants," Mr. Heiberger said, "so they went over the top with kitchens and granite countertops and marble baths, which are standard in the area."
In addition, most buildings have fitness centers and laundries, as well as concierge service and roof access, and they allow pets. The apartments are larger and have higher ceilings than those uptown, and the conversion from office space to apartments has frequently meant offbeat layouts.
"It seemed like they'd do anything to get you to move down here," said Nikki Loffredo, 32, an administrative assistant who works in Midtown and has lived at 75 West Street, one of the early rental conversions, for a year and a half.
Ms. Loffredo, who had lived in Greenwich Village, said she was attracted to the idea of having a newer and bigger apartment. "My old apartment had like 100 coats of paint," she said. "It was old and rickety. I wanted a nice apartment in an O.K. neighborhood."
Since the stock market downturn last year, rental prices are off 10 to 15 percent, real estate agents say. "The financial district has felt the brunt of the downturn more quickly than the neighborhoods uptown," Mr. Edwards said. "And we're seeing concessions for the first time. New tenants often sign a 13-month lease in which they typically get the first or 13th month free."
A low-floor studio without a view rents for $1,800 a month while a larger one with a terrace can rent for $2,500 a month, said Arnon Barzilai, a Citi Habitats rental agent who specializes in the financial district. One-bedroom apartments rent for $2,300 to $3,200 and two-bedroom apartments for $2,800 to $4,500. "The top ones could usually be converted to three-bedrooms," he said.
With zoning that is unique in New York City, the financial district is home to breathtaking artificial canyons created when streets barely wide enough for a single lane of traffic are bordered on both sides by some of the tallest buildings in the city.
Most of the area's apartments can be found in recently converted skyscrapers, some of which once housed the headquarters of leading American companies. The three rental buildings with the most units are 200 Water Street, with 576 apartments; 17 Battery Place, a mixed-use building with 496 apartments; and 99 John Street, with 442. The John Street building also houses the new Jubilee Market grocery store.
Real estate brokers and developers speculate that buildings will begin to convert from rentals to co-ops or condominiums. Some of the better-known existing co-ops are at 3 Hanover Square, 176 Broadway and 55 Liberty Street. Condominiums are scattered throughout the area, for example at 33 Rector Street, with 14 apartments; at 25 Ann Street, with 9; and 130 Beekman Street, with 18. A 2,200-square-foot condominium loft could sell for $950,000 to $1.2 million, depending on the size, the floor and maintenance costs, said Katharine Vaccaro, a broker with Douglas Elliman. Similarly sized co-op apartments, lofts or two-bedroom apartments would sell for $480,000 to $1.2 million. An apartment might have a spectacular river or cityscape view or nothing more than the sight of a solid wall of the building across the street, a factor that influences price. "Light is always very important," Ms. Vaccaro said.
BUT small-scale buildings are also to be found, including a row of a dozen three-story Federal and Greek Revival-style town houses on Stone Street, built soon after a fire in 1835 leveled most of the area. These contain full-floor two-bedroom lofts that rent for about $3,500 a month, said Joey Goldman, a partner of Goldman Properties, which owns five of the buildings.
The district contains three areas with concentrations of residential buildings: the financial district proper, especially along John Street; the handful of blocks south of the World Trade Center along Greenwich, Washington and West Streets, and the seaport district, which is another area with century-old low-rise buildings.
"The financial district and the seaport are in character two completely different areas," said Felicia De Chabris, a sales associate with the Halstead Property Company who lived on Nassau Street for five years but has since moved uptown. "The seaport is quiet, residential, and has an old world charm," she said. "It just sits in a period of time, and it doesn't move."
Every working day 375,000 workers flood downtown New York, the third-largest central business district in the country. But its burgeoning residential character is more of a return to the past than an innovation, said Edwin G. Burrows, professor of history at Brooklyn College and author with Mike Wallace of "Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898" (Oxford University Press, 1998). "If you were to walk down Wall Street in the decade before the American Revolution," he said, "you would find plenty of residences."
The area was the first in the city to be settled by Europeans, in 1626. It was not until the 1840's and 50's, as the city's population swelled and the neighborhood took on an increasingly commercial character, that most residents moved uptown. "There are old stories of people's houses being surrounded by the clamor of business and trade and the owners complaining that they can't get anything done," Dr. Burrows said. "That's a big story of the first few decades of the 19th century."
Despite the recent influx of residents, the area is still quiet at night, when steam from underground pipes wafts upward in narrow canyons populated by grinding sanitation trucks but not a single pedestrian.
The nighttime peace is a big draw for some, said Bruce Menin, a residential developer downtown. "I think a lot of people who live here really like the fact that they are not assaulted by throngs of tourist strangers that they don't know," he said. But others, who go to SoHo, Union Square or TriBeCa for restaurants and night life, said they would like to see a little more activity.
Mr. Menin, managing principal of Crescent Heights Realty, was the first residential developer to convert a building to residential use under the revitalization plan, turning 25 Broad Street into 345 apartments of one, two and three bedrooms.
As a young lawyer for Sullivan & Cromwell at 125 Broad Street in 1989, Mr. Menin lived near the intersection of 89th Street and Third Avenue. He said he remembered a difficult commute and thought people might like to avoid it. "I believed there would be people who would see the dual benefit of avoiding the commute and living in a building they can be proud of when they have visitors," he said, noting that he aimed to provide all the amenities of a Fifth Avenue luxury building.
The financial area is populated to a large degree by young men and women fresh out of college who move to the area shortly after landing a job with long hours at a Wall Street firm. "For anybody who's starting out in banking or some kind of job that is downtown that has very work-intensive hours, it's good place to be," said Josh Goldin, 24, a financial analyst with Lehman Brothers who has lived for 14 months at 99 John Street. "The convenience thing is great for someone who works a lot of hours."
Still, many others, like Ms. Loffredo, commute to Midtown or elsewhere. With 14 of the city's 22 subway lines going through the area, residents say a reverse commute in the city is easy. "There are so many subways down here," Ms. Loffredo said. "You can easily get anywhere in the city."
Relatively few families with children live in the area, though their number is growing. Children who live south of Cortlandt Street and west of Broadway attend Public School 89. Those who live elsewhere in the area attend P.S. 234. Both schools, in TriBeCa, perform well above the citywide average. There are no private schools in the area, but a leading educational presence is Stuyvesant High School, one of the city's premier public schools, which is at the northern end of Battery Park City. 
There are no schools in the district itself, but with so many new residential conversions, hotels and museums opening in the area, the diversity that Jane Jacobs wrote about is at last coming to the southern tip of Manhattan. But that does not mean that people will stop calling it the financial capital of the world.
"It will become a more and more integrated area that people will enjoy living in," said Mr. Greenburger, the developer. "But it's always going to be a mixture of a business district and a residential one, with the business dominating by a vast majority."

Gazetteer

POPULATION: 12,042 (2000 census).
AREA: 0.49 square mile.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $61,355 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A 2-BEDROOM CO-OP: $647,000.
MAINTENANCE ON MEDIAN CO-OP: $1,275.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $601,000.
MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $331,000.
MIDRANGE RENT ON A 2-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $3,600.
MIDRANGE RENT A YEAR AGO: $3,800.
MIDRANGE RENT FIVE YEARS AGO: $2,875.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 4 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 15 minutes on the 2, 3, 4, 5, A, C or E lines, 20 minutes on the 1, 9, N or R lines; one hour on the M6 bus, 45 minutes on the M15 bus ($1.50 one way, $63 for a monthly unlimited MetroCard).
GOVERNMENT: City Councilwoman Kathryn E. Freed (Democrat).
CODES: Area, 212, 646 and 917; ZIP, 10004, 10005, 10006, 10007 and 10038.
MAKING DO BEFORE THE CONVERSIONS: By the 1850's, Wall Street had been more or less purely commercial for about 30 years. But Herman Melville's short story "Bartleby, the Scrivener" revolves around a character who decides to live in the area. In the story, Bartleby is described as an oddball legal clerk who refuses to do work because he "prefers not to." Eventually, he starts to make his home in the office where he supposedly works. Exasperated, the lawyer who hired him decides to relocate the office when he realizes that Bartleby might "perhaps outlive me, and claim possession of my office by right of his perpetual occupancy." Melville, born at 6 Pearl Street, has the lawyer say of the area: "Of a Sunday, Wall-street is deserted as Petra, and every night of every day it is an emptiness. This building too, which of week-days hums with industry and life, at nightfall echoes with sheer vacancy, and all through Sunday is forlorn. And here Bartleby makes his home; sole spectator of a solitude which he has seen all populous."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gold Street, above left, near Maiden Lane; South Street Seaport, above right; a market on Washington Street. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); 1-bedroom, 1-bath, 600-sq.-ft. middle-floor co-op at 65 Nassau Street, $165,000.; 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,600-sq.-ft. co-op at 3 Hanover Square, $470,000.; 5-story town house, needing gut renovation, at 134 Beekman Street, $1.2 million. Map of Manhattan highlighting the Financial District

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (88%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); TRENDS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (54%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); TIME EQUITIES INC (68%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



214 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2712 words

HEADLINE: Avoiding Pitfalls in Buying Raw Land 

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
WHEN David Wade bought an acre of land near Rochester in Victor, N.Y., about three years ago, one of the most appealing features of the property was its location on a hill overlooking a golf course. The site would be perfect, Mr. Wade thought, for the 4,700-square-foot house he and his wife dreamed of building. 
 After buying the land and starting construction, however, Mr. Wade says, he made a surprising discovery. "I figured that hill the property was on had been there for hundreds of years," he said. "But as it turns out, that particular part of the ridge was, for all intents and purposes, man-made land that was just bulldozed in. It ended up costing us about $40,000 in excavation costs to find solid ground." 
 Although Mr. Wade was ultimately able to build his house, he is now engaged in litigation with the seller -- whose lawyer says that Mr. Wade knew about the soil conditions before making the purchase -- to recover the extra excavation costs he incurred. 
"Just because a piece of property looks like it may have been there forever," he said, "doesn't necessarily mean you can build on it."
The problem encountered by Mr. and Mrs. Wade is relatively unusual; most land that looks as if it has been around for hundreds or thousands of years probably has been. What is not unusual, however, is for people who are unfamiliar with the intricacies of buying raw land to discover that a property that appears perfectly located and priced just right may be costly, difficult or even impossible to develop.
"Buying undeveloped land is an entirely different experience than buying a lot with a house already on it," said Les Scher, a Garberville, Calif., real estate lawyer who, with his wife, Carol, wrote "Finding and Buying Your Place In The Country" (Dearborn). Mr. Scher explained that when a person is buying an existing house on a lot in a city or a suburb, it is reasonable to assume, for example, that the house can legally remain where it is situated on the lot, that it can continue to be used as a home and that basic utilities -- like water, sewer, electricity and telephone lines -- are readily available. 
"When you're buying rural land, though," Mr. Scher said, "you can make no assumptions whatsoever." 
For example, Mr. Scher said, the most basic thing a buyer needs to know is whether there is a proven source of water on the property. 
"Your land can have the most beautiful view in the world," he said. "But without water it is useless."
Just knowing that a property has water, however, is not enough. The buyer must also know how wastewater will be removed from the property. With country property, this usually means that the property must be able to support a septic system. But even if a septic system can be installed without much trouble, he said, a buyer should also ensure that it can be installed in a location that makes it possible to build the house in the most desirable spot, yet far enough away from the well to prevent contamination of drinking water.
"In short, you have to make sure that your land is going to be able to legally, geographically and geologically support the type of house you ultimately want to build," he said. He added that prospective land owners should also know where the property's boundary lines are, whether adjoining property owners have easements or rights of way over the property being purchased and how much it will cost to run utilities and possibly even a new road to the future dream house.
"I tell people that their lack of caution regarding any of these issues is going to help put my kids through college,"' Mr. Scher said.
Most specialists interviewed for this article agreed with Mr. Scher's observation that one of the most important matters to be addressed when purchasing raw land is the availability of water.
Charles W. Crover, vice president of Roarke Well Drilling in Harriman, N.Y., said that while most land has water somewhere under the surface, locating and tapping into that water source can be expensive. 
"Wells are usually priced by the foot," he said, adding that the price per foot of depth can range anywhere from $8 to $30, depending on the material being drilled through. Drilling through sandy soil, for example, is going to be easier and less expensive than drilling through rock. And since the total price of the well is largely determined by its depth, Mr. Crover said, there is generally no way of knowing how much a well will ultimately cost until the well digger locates a source that can produce an adequate supply of clean, usable water.
"Here in Orange County, wells range anywhere from 80 feet to 1,000 feet," Mr. Crover said, adding that the physical location of a piece of property is not necessarily indicative of the ease with which water may be found.
"It doesn't matter whether you're on top of a mountain or in a valley," he said. "All that matters is where Mother Nature put the water."
ONCE it has been established that a property contains an adequate supply of water, a prospective purchaser must determine if the land will support a system that will allow for the disposal of the water after it has been used.
"When buying undeveloped land, one of the basic questions to ask is if the site has been evaluated for an on-lot wastewater treatment system," said Gil Longwell, administrator of the Pennsylvania Association of Sewage Enforcement Officers, a trade organization based in Mechanicsburg. "And if the answer is yes, the questions that follow should be: What type of system will the land support? How much will it cost? And where does it have to be located?"
Mr. Longwell explained that an on-lot wastewater treatment system -- commonly referred to as a septic system -- is "soil sensitive," meaning that the system can be installed only in an area that will allow for percolation of liquid effluent into the ground. And while some properties may allow for the installation of a septic system just about anywhere, others may have only small areas -- or no area at all -- that will support the leach field, which is the portion of the system that distributes liquid waste after the solids have been captured by the septic tank. As a result, Mr. Longwell said, it is necessary for a buyer of raw land to determine not just whether the land will support a septic system, but where the system must be located.
"You might get the land tested and find out that the most beautiful spot on the property, the perfect place to build your house, is the same place that the sewage enforcement officer has planted his orange flags," he said. Buyers should also understand that there are different types of sewage disposal systems that can be installed. 
For example, Mr. Longwell said, if the top layer of soil on a property is not deep enough to support a septic system, it may be necessary to construct what is basically an aboveground leach field. With such a system -- commonly referred to as a sand mound -- the required amount of porous soil is obtained by adding it to the surface, and the leach field is then installed aboveground in the sand mound.
Since the system is basically a large, unadorned mound that stands out noticeably from the surrounding terrain, it is typically considered an eyesore. A sand mound for a three-bedroom house, for example, could be 30 feet wide by 70 feet long or even larger and as much as 5 feet high. "But if that piece of property is your dream property," Mr. Longwell said, "you might be happy you can install a sand mound because without it, you may not be able to use the land for anything at all."
He pointed out that in addition to the potential aesthetic objections to sand mounds, there are some economic disincentives to them as well. 
"The cost of a typical system with a subsurface absorption area would probably be in the $5,000 range," Mr. Longwell said, adding that a sand-mound system, which requires trucking in as much as 100 tons of special sand, could cost five times that amount. As a result, he said, anyone contemplating buying undeveloped land should check with the local sewage enforcement officer to determine what type of system is likely to be necessary. 
At least as important as knowing that a property has good water and the ability to support a septic system is knowing that the property can be used for the type of structure the buyer intends to build on it.
James S. Grossman, a Rochester lawyer who is the immediate past chairman of the state bar association's real estate section, said that while most areas are zoned to permit residential construction, local zoning laws often differ with respect to the maximum allowable percentage of the property that can be used for buildings and the required setbacks from property lines.
"And you can't just assume that because the next-door neighbor has built something on his property that you can build the same thing," Mr. Grossman said, explaining that a structure on an adjoining property may be permitted only because it existed before the adoption of the zoning law.
Another matter that buyers of undeveloped land should investigate is the quality of the land itself.
"Soil conditions are extraordinarily important in raw land sales," Mr. Grossman said, pointing out, for example, that building on lakefront property may require the use of stilts or pilings. Even land that was once used for farming could prove problematic. 
"You may have pesticides sitting in the soil," Mr. Grossman said. "Or there may be leaking fuel storage tanks buried underground that you may end up having to remove."
In fact, Mr. Grossman, who represented Mr. and Mrs. Wade in the purchase of their property from Vicwil Associates, a local developer, said that the presence of organic fill on the site was the cause of his clients' problems and the reason for filing the suit to recover damages from the seller. Francis L. Gorman III, a lawyer for Vicwil, said the company maintains it is not liable for any additional excavation costs because the Wades conducted soil tests of the property prior to the closing and were aware of the presence of the fill but chose to purchase the property anyway. 
Christopher J. LaMonica, a real estate lawyer in Brick Township, N.J., said that land use issues become even more complicated when property is on or near a river, a bay or the ocean.
"The basic rule is that any development on a beach or dune or within 150 feet of the mean high water line of a tidal water body in New Jersey must meet the requirements of the state's Coastal Area Facility Review Act," Mr. LaMonica said. He explained that under the law, which covers more than 880,000 acres of the state's coastline and inland areas, any development in the designated area is subject to review and approval by the state.
Moreover, he said, those who buy waterfront property -- whether on the ocean itself, on an inlet or on an inland waterway like Barnegat Bay -- will have to obtain a waterfront development permit and a tidelands license to erect or repair a dock or bulkhead on the property.
"The best advice I can give someone buying near water is to have an attorney or an engineer who is familiar with all of the regulations determine the conditions and limitations of development," he said.
Phyllis Simpson, director of marketing for LTS Builders in East Stroudsburg, Pa., said her company was frequently asked to build houses by people who had purchased land themselves.
"One of the things we see is that people go out and buy property without first knowing what kind of home they want to build," she said. "And we've found that most people don't really have an eye for evaluating the topography accurately for siting a home."
Moreover, she said, when buyers accustomed to New York City-area prices see land for sale for a fraction of what a studio apartment would cost in Manhattan, they tend to become a bit too eager to become land owners.
"We have people come here from the New York City metropolitan area who have fallen in love with the beauty and peace and quiet up here," Ms. Simpson said. "But they're really not terribly equipped to make the right decisions when they're making a land selection. We've seen people who have paid 30 to 40 percent more for a property than they should have paid, and they may not even be able to build what they want to build on it."
One way to avoid paying more for land than it is worth -- and to avoid buying property that will not support the kind of house one wants to build -- is to buy a "land and house" package from a reputable builder. In this kind of arrangement, Ms. Simpson said, the builder ensures that water and sewer service have been provided for and that the house ultimately built on the property meets local building and zoning requirements. 
One of the most common mistakes people make when buying rural land -- particularly large, multiacre parcels -- is failing to ascertain where the boundary lines are.
"Most people who come from the city think that property lines always run at a 90 degree angle to the road and that stone walls are a property's boundary lines," said Sal Santo, a principal of Santo Associates, a surveying company in Catskill, N.Y. "Unfortunately, neither assumption is necessarily going to be true."
Mr. Santo explained that unlike property in populated areas, where it is likely that larger parcels have already been subdivided into developable lots with easily identifiable boundary lines, rural property is often irregularly shaped and described by words alone.
"It's not unusual to see a deed describe the boundaries of a property by making reference to natural landmarks like trees, rocks and the banks of streams," Mr. Santo said. The only problem with that, he added, is that trees can die, rocks can be moved and streams can change course or dry up. 
Accordingly, he said, the first thing that a prospective purchaser of rural land should do is ask the seller for a survey. If the seller doesn't have one, he said, it would be wise for the purchaser to hire his own surveyor to identify and mark the property boundaries.
"You also want to walk the boundaries with the surveyor if possible," Mr. Santo said, explaining that by doing so, a buyer can determine whether there are any structures on the property -- or the property next door -- that extend across the property line. 
W ALKING the boundaries also makes it possible to determine whether there are any roads that other property owners are using to gain access to their property or that the buyer will have to use to get to the property being purchased. And precisely locating the boundary lines also makes it possible for the surveyor to calculate exactly how much property is being sold.
"If the seller says he's selling you 100 acres and the survey shows that he only owns 90 acres, it's good to know ahead of time so you can adjust the purchase price," Mr. Santo said. 
In fact, when buying rural property -- or any developable land -- knowing as much as possible about the property ahead of time can be a valuable negotiating tool.
Phil King, a real estate broker at Valley View Realty in Sharon Springs, N.Y., said it might be worthwhile, for example, to obtain a satellite photo of property being considered.
"A satellite photo can show you how much of the land is open, how much is wooded, the position of buildings with respect to the roads and what other kind of properties are next door," Mr. King said. (United States Geological Survey satellite photos of most of the country are available on the Internet. A quick way to find photos of specific areas is to go to www.terraserver.microsoft.com.). 
It is also important, Mr. King said, for those who are buying rural land to consider how much it will cost to have utilities connected to the home.
For example, he said, while power companies in New York do not charge for the first 500 feet of service to the property from the nearest power source, the cost beyond that first 500 feet can be anywhere from $6 to $10 a foot.
"If you're a mile in from the nearest utility pole, you've got a real item on your hands," he said.
Finally, Mr. King said, buyers of land -- regardless of where the land is and how beautiful it may seem -- should follow a simple rule they probably learned in childhood. "If a deal sounds too good to be true," he said, "it probably is too good to be true."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Land for sale can range from areas far from roads to lots such as these in Stroudsburg, Pa., for which access and utilities are provided. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) (pg. 1); David Wade built his house in Victor, N.Y., after spending $40,000 in extra excavation costs because a hill was not as natural as it appeared. (Will Yurman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); LAWYERS (74%); LITIGATION (73%) HOUSING; REAL ESTATE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ZONING 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



215 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3158 words

HEADLINE: Call It E-ZPass The Hard Way 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SULLIVAN 

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Jeffrey M. Zupan has studied highways for more than 30 years, and he loves the E-ZPass automated toll system.
 Mr. Zupan can speak in rapture about the shorter lines, the savings in gasoline and the lower fares later in the evening. He says the electronic gadgets are a "tremendous improvement" over the manned toll booths in which drivers have to hunt for their money and then often wait for change while the cars back up. 
 But there is the matter of those 15 tickets. 
Mr. Zupan, like many other law-abiding drivers, has received violation notices since he began using New Jersey's E-ZPass early this year, lots of them. On one memorable day, he got 11.
Most are for running an E-ZPass gate without a pass. But Mr. Zupan, a transportation expert with the Regional Plan Association, is probably the last person who would zip through without a valid E-ZPass, so he contested the fines.
"I had to send back a separate form for each one," he said, 15 stamps, 15 envelopes and 15 chances for more aggravation.
"I was very conflicted," Mr. Zupan said. "On one hand, I am all for the tolls. On the other hand, this was driving me nuts."
Mr. Zupan is not alone. For years, New Jersey motorists looked with envy at New York and Pennsylvania, where drivers zipped through the automated toll lanes with barely a glance. After repeated delays, New Jersey's toll roads finally unveiled their own version of E-ZPass last year, and drivers signed up by the millions.
But along with the popularity came a flood of complaints.
Indeed, Edward Gross, director of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority and the state's E-ZPass program, acknowledged in a recent interview that the system had suffered through technical problems as well as financial miscalculations. Nonetheless, Mr. Gross said New Jersey was working its way through these "growing pains," and for the majority of the six million users who drive on the state's highways, E-ZPass had worked flawlessly. 
"No system of this size is going to start without some hiccups," he said.
Still, in what is arguably the most auto-dependent state in the nation, New Jersey's attempt to automate its highway tolls has been at best a mixed bag. Although it has been adopted enthusiastically by drivers, the system was late and cost millions more than expected. The cost of construction and operation is expected to reach $488 million. Trucking companies have had to hire clerks to deal with E-ZPass billing errors. Others, like Mr. Zupan, have to deal with the bureaucracy on their own.
"I am thankful it is there, but I am disturbed by some of the operational problems and the financing," said Martin Robins, director of the Transportation Policy Institute at Rutgers University. "Over all, on a scale of 1 to 10, I would give it about a 6."
Although highway officials say the worst of the growing pains are over, critics say there are several problems that must still be ironed out:
*Failure to read vehicles' electronic registers leads to fines for legitimate customers; other times, motorists are charged a maximum fee for using a highway because the system cannot tell where they entered the road.
*The customer service center has not kept pace with the thousands of calls. One Delaware official complained, "If you call the customer service lines, chances are you will not get through."
*The system is supposed to pay for itself over 10 years, mainly through the collection of fines from toll jumpers. But over the last year, only $7 million was collected, far short of the $106 million expected.
Any time a project as large and expensive as New Jersey's E-ZPass -- encompassing more than 700 tollbooths on three state highways -- some degree of controversy is expected. But this has been a particularly bad year for bureaucrats who manage large and unwieldy state contracts as well as for the motorists who are at their mercy.
The State Legislature and the Commission of Investigation have already been investigating the unpopular and costly auto inspection program. That $500 million contract, which stranded motorists in endless lines, was fraught with delay and technical mishaps. Moreover, witnesses who testified before the commission this spring said the company that won the contract, Parsons Infrastructure and Technology Group, had been given advance information during the bidding.
Leading Democratic legislators did not waste any time drawing parallels between the problem-plagued inspection system and the E-ZPass contract. Assemblyman John S. Wisniewski of Sayreville, called E-ZPass "a maddening experience," and Senator Joseph F. Vitale of Woodbridge said some of the decisions taken by administrators had been "ridiculous."
Senate Minority Leader Richard J. Codey, a longtime E-ZPass critic, said that the system had jolted from one mishap to another.
"It is like you are in a bad marriage," said Mr. Codey. "It was a disaster to put into place, and it does not work that well right now."
Mr. Codey has called for Acting Governor DiFrancesco to reactivate a Senate task force originally charged with investigating both the inspection contract and E-ZPass. The task force, which only met once, was disbanded so its work would not interfere with the Commission of Investigation's examination. And though the commission was looking into the inspection contract, Mr. Codey said E-ZPass had never been examined.
"We want the Senate task force to look at both situations," he said.
At this point, Mr. DiFrancesco does not plan to reopen the issue. Rae Hutton, a spokeswoman for the governor, said the E-ZPass operators had fixed most of the problems that cropped up when the system opened.
"At the time the task force was commissioned, there were a lot of problems as far as construction and getting it set up," Ms. Hutton said. "It has been installed, it is working, and except for the motorist violations, everything else seems to be being ironed out."
SUPPORTERS and critics can argue over the merits of New Jersey's toll collection, but it is a given that the implementation of E-ZPass was anything but easy. The effort began with accusations of corruption, became stalled with a legal challenge, struggled through several changes in the primary contractor and finished with a compromise. 
Highway experts said that it was not unusual for electronic toll systems to have problems initially. Joseph L. Schofer, a professor of engineering at Northwestern University, said that in Illinois, for example, E-ZPASS had trouble attracting users because of the way it was marketed.
"They made you put down a substantial deposit," Dr. Schofer said. "It made it more difficult than it had to be."
But he said that New Jersey's plan to have fines pay for the implemention of E-ZPass was troubling.
"Using enforcement as a fund-raising strategy is really the wrong incentive," he said. "It is a speed trap."
It all began in the early 1990's, when New Jersey joined other Northeastern states in debating whether computers and cameras could replace human toll collectors. After testing competing technologies, the states agreed on a device that used small radio transmitters mounted on car windshields.
The New York Thruway quickly adopted the system, and in 1993 it installed E-ZPass booths on some portions. By 1995, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority of New York City followed suit, installing E-ZPass at the entrances to the city's nine bridges and tunnels.
But in New Jersey, proposals to adopt the system lagged. When Frank J. Wilson was appointed transportation commissioner in 1994, planning for E-ZPass was "going on at a low level," he recalled.
Part of the problem was disagreements between officials from the various toll roads. Tom Margro, who was chief engineer for the Turnpike, said that different agencies viewed E-ZPass according to their own priorities. The turnpike, for instance, saw it as a way to speed toll collections, while officials for the Garden State Parkway viewed it as a costly replacement for their token machines.
"The parkway's basic objection was that they were already doing a very efficient collection," Mr. Margro said. "We had a real rough time with the Garden State Parkway. They just did not want to change this, and in my mind, they were not looking at the bigger picture."
As Mr. Wilson now sees it, state officials became concerned that New Jersey was falling behind neighboring states, which were fast installing the technology. With a long-range plan for a seamless toll system stretching from Maine to Delaware, New Jersey's failure to begin work looked like an embarrassment. As a result, the governor instructed Mr. Wilson to move the project along.
Experts from the state's three toll roads -- the Turnpike, the Parkway and the Atlantic City Expressway -- who were tapped by Mr. Wilson to come up with a plan, quickly recognized the enormity of the job. Nothing the size of the system envisioned in New Jersey had ever been attempted. After all, more than a million drivers -- who pay more than 40 percent of the nation's tolls each year -- use the state's toll roads each day.
After months of discussion, New Jersey asked contractors for proposals but offered few specifications. New Jersey wanted all lanes equipped with E-Z Pass, and it wanted the job completed by the end of 1998. "No one had ever put a job like this into the marketplace," Mr. Wilson said.
Although several companies were interested, only two submitted proposals. Lockheed Martin IMS, which had designed E-ZPass systems in other states, offered a traditional bid and said it would install and operate the system for a set amount of money.
But its rival bidder, an MCI Worldcom subsidiary called MFS Network Technologies, presented a different strategy. Instead of requiring the state to pay, MFS said the system could support itself by fining toll jumpers and leasing rights to fiber optic lines the company would build to support the E-ZPass computers.
"You had a stark choice economically," Mr. Wilson said.
After the bids were opened, Lockheed protested, claiming it had not been given the same information about the contract as MFS -- specifically the fiber optic network, which it insisted unfairly favored its rival.
In a more explosive move, Lockheed also levied personal charges against Mr. Wilson, accusing him of discussing future employment with companies connected with the E-ZPass contract. Lockheed contended that Mr. Wilson's actions tainted the entire bid and demanded its dismissal. (A Lockheed spokesman declined to talk about the contract for this article, saying the company considered the matter closed.)
At the time, Mr. Wilson denied that he had violated any rules, since he did not have a direct role in awarding the E-ZPass contract or in recommending bidders. He also said he had informed the governor about the conversations before the bidding had started.
In the fall of 1996, the highway consortium announced its intention to award the contract to MFS. Nonetheless, Lockheed's complaint stalled the job. After several hearings, Mr. Gross rejected the protest, saying there was no evidence of unfair advantage. He even went so far as to rebuke Lockheed for accusing Mr. Wilson of unethical behavior, calling the charges "baseless."
Lockheed appealed to the Superior Court's appellate division, but its complaint was dismissed in June 1997. The court also rejected the claim against Mr. Wilson, saying there was no evidence that his talks with potential employers had any effect on the E-ZPass contract.
For his part, Mr. Wilson left the Department of Transportation before the judge's decision was handed up. In a recent interview Mr. Wilson said he probably would not have supported the version of the contract awarded to MFS, since under the current plan, the company would be paid regardless of whether fines from toll jumpers generate enough revenue to finance the system. Mr. Wilson said he would have required the company to take the risk.
"We never intended for the government to pay a penny for that project," he said.
Nevertheless, the charges about his behavior continued to haunt Mr. Wilson. Eventually, he settled claims filed with the state's Executive Commission on Ethical Standards, agreeing to pay $1,200 without admitting any wrongdoing.
"I think the record, if anyone would care to take the time to look at it, shows that what the judge said was actually correct," he said.
THE E-ZPass construction contract, hundreds of pages of minutiae, took about a year to draw up. John Haley, who was appointed to succeed Mr. Wilson as transportation commissioner, had barely approved the document when there was a major change. MFS announced it had been sold to a company called Able Telecom.
"The biggest breath-holder was whether they could demonstrate that financially they could support the project," Mr. Haley said recently.
MFS finally began work late in the summer of 1998. Construction involved parallel projects: one was the installation of E-ZPass equipment at tollbooths, and the other was building a 400-mile-long fiber optic network to connect the system.
Mr. Haley said the company used equipment and technology that had been working for years on other roads, so there was little question about the hardware. The question was whether MFS could handle the project organizationally.
"From a technical perspective, this was not hard," he said. "The concern was, given the enormous size of the project, was the company big enough to do it."
Problems quickly began to crop up, particularly in the area of nabbing toll jumpers. The company had a falling out with the subcontractor that was designing computer software to process violations, and an arbitrator ordered MFS to pay off the firm while it continued the work on its own.
MFS soon began to miss deadlines, and Mr. Gross began imposing penalties after the company failed to install the violations processing center on time -- with the fine eventually growing to more than $4 million.
The company changed hands once again, creating what Mr. Gross called "some new learning curves and some concern on our part."
The company declined to answer specific questions for this article, but did issue a written statement:
Throughout the project, MFS and its subsequent owners "have devoted significant resources to assure the successful completion of the E-ZPass system," wrote Robert Sommerfeld, president of the company, which was later renamed Adesta as a Bracknell Corporation of Canada. "Bottom line, the system is a success despite its growing pains."
At the beginning of the new company's foray into New Jersey's tangle of toll roads, Carol-Ann Hollows, who supervised the E-ZPass project for the Department of Transportation, said the company seemed to have trouble juggling several projects at once. Part of the problem was getting enough people who were technically adept to make the endless decisions about equipment and software.
In addition, Ms. Hollows said MFS was also installing electronic tolls for a highway outside Denver, and that the job seemed to divert the company's attention. Eventually, MFS and the Denver Highway Authority agreed to cancel their contract.
"There were times we needed people out here and we could not get them," she said. "There was a lot of turnover."
By 1999, the state began to open E-ZPass tollbooths on the Garden State Parkway. The work was on schedule according to the contract, but behind the state's original projections. Starting at the southern end, a new plaza opened every few days in what Ms. Hollows called "the glory days," when each opening was a small triumph.
But in a decision that would generate more controversy than any other, Mr. Gross decided on a quick opening for E-ZPass on the turnpike as well. Rather than equip all lanes with the devices, exclusive E-ZPass lanes were mixed with cash lanes. Mr. Gross said that studies showed that drivers on other roads tended to use E-ZPass-only lanes more than 90 percent of the time, so that equipping all lanes was unnecessary. 
Critics did not agree. They denounced the plan, claiming that the turnpike had scaled back on the project.
"It was like the end of the world," Mr. Gross said.
Ultimately, the protests led to yet another reversal, and all lanes are now expected to be equipped for E-ZPass next month.
IF E-Zpass is going to work through its growing pains, it will have to satisfy people like Denise Ciok, a vice president with Port Jersey Transportation, a trucking company, who was an early supporter of E-ZPass and still says electronic tolls "are a great thing to keep people moving."
But Ms. Ciok said she soon began to notice glitches in her company's bills. Sometimes drivers were charged a maximum fare when the company knew they had not traveled the entire highway, and at other times trucks with valid passes were charged with running the tollbooths.
"We were getting a lot of violations," she said. "We would have to pull out a clerk and have them research who was driving which trailer on which particular day."
The problem is a serious one for trucking companies. Gail Toth, executive director of the New Jersey Motor Truck Association, which represents about 1,000 companies, says some of the larger companies have been receiving $15,000 in excess charges a month.
"The problems you read about with cars, we are having with trucks, but 10 times worse," Ms. Toth said. "It seemed like they were in a hurry to get E-ZPass in the state and they did not think about it."
Mr. Gross said the E-ZPass consortium was working to fix the problems, and that many had already been addressed. In addition, he said that new software was expected to eliminate the problem of maximum charges for short trips by analyzing the driving patterns of highway users. And additional cameras are being installed to avoid misidentifying trucks.
What's more, Mr. Gross said that the consortium had hired a collection agency to track down people who did not pay their fines. Once the agency is working, he said, revenue should begin to move closer to expectations -- though he acknowledged that the system probably would still fall about $65 million short of paying for itself this year. Critics insisted the gap would be far greater.
"When the bill comes due, who is going to pay it?" Assemblyman Wisniewski said. "E-Zpass is not an isolated problem that got screwed up, it is a way of doing business."
Despite the criticism -- and there has been much -- Mr. Gross insists E-ZPass has been very successful. He said that while about 30 percent of the state's drivers were expected to subscribe to the system, the actual number has been more than 50 percent.
And according to a study recently made public by the turnpike, the system has decreased congestion at five of six toll plazas and has cut overtime by $10 million each year.
"Even if we are short, you should pat us on the back -- 75 percent of the system will be paid for by cheaters rather than 100 percent by toll revenues," Mr. Gross said. "I find it a little baffling that we have been criticized."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey M. Zupan, a transportation expert with the Regional Plan Association, right, said E-ZPass was a tremendous improvement over manned toll booths. It was the 15 violation notices he received for running an E-ZPass gate without a pass that bothered him. "On one hand, I am all for the tolls. On the other hand, this was driving me nuts," he complained. Denise A. Ciok, the vice president of a trucking company, said some drivers were being charged a maximum fare when the company knew they had not traveled the entire highway. (Don Standing for The New York Times; Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 10); Peering over the dashboard while approaching the E-ZPass lanes at the Union Toll Plaza, Exit 142, on the Garden State Parkway. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); TRUCKING (68%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (60%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TOLLS 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY INC (53%)

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



216 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Is the Field Getting Too Crowded? 

BYLINE:  By SOPHIA HOLLANDER 

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Larry Berger stood in the deserted parking lot conjuring images of urban renewal and soccer innovation with the skill of a magician and the conviction of a visionary. 
 Mr. Berger and his partner, Paul Oliu, were at the Roebling Complex, an abandoned factory site in downtown Trenton, where their group, NTC Partners, proposes to build a $31 million soccer stadium where they hope to land one of two Major League Soccer expansion teams scheduled to join the league in 2003. 
 For now, the two men envision a team called the Union FC, which would be named in honor of Trenton's history as a union town and for the city's contribution to the Union forces in the Civil War.
Across the street loomed the newest sports venue here, the Sovereign Bank Arena, tall and stark against the city's underdeveloped skyline. 
With a wave of his hands and a few words, Mr. Berger -- who runs a venture capital company in Princeton -- turned historic brick warehouses, now abandoned and with broad windows stained by age, into a stately stadium facade.
Faded streets with bargain-basement shops became opportunities to turn the ragged downtown into a community of artists' lofts and restaurants.
In their vision -- some would say pipe dream -- soccer would be transformed into an instrument of international healing as Mr. Berger and Mr. Oliu -- who works for Merrill Lynch -- propose bringing Palestinian and Israeli youths together to participate in soccer camps.
Later, as the men drove from the squalid site, speeding past small, colorful houses with peeling paint, Mr. Berger pointed to abandoned storefronts as more evidence of the city's potential. Suddenly a voice piped up from the back seat.
"Dad," the voice said skeptically, "isn't Trenton mostly boarded up houses?"
Mr. Berger admitted that was largely true.
Aaron, age 9, digested this. "So," said Mr. Berger's son, "why would you want to build it here then?"
It is a question many people are asking. 
No one involved with Major League Soccer disputes the need for new stadiums as the sport matures in this country. And the emphasis by NTC Partners on youth development, education and community involvement are also important components. But there are several concerns among soccer fans, and two of them involve the MetroStars, a Major League Soccer team that has been playing at the Meadowlands sports complex for about six years:
*Can the city sustain a major league team when it has often struggled to support a minor league sports franchise?
*Can soccer supply enough fans for three teams in such close proximity -- assuming that the owners of the MetroStars exercised their option to start an additional team in New York City? And would the MetroStars allow that to happen?
*Why wouldn't a franchise go to a nearby city like Philadelphia, which has a strong soccer community?
"If you were to go into Philadelphia and play in a big football stadium, then it doesn't have that feel that this is the best show in town to me," said Jeff Bradley, a writer for ESPN Magazine and an ESPN.com soccer columnist. "You're dealing with what almost every other M.L.S. team deals with -- being a second- or third-class citizen. I think the league could break new ground by going into areas that are known for soccer."
But Nick Sakiewicz, general manager of the MetroStars, has said that he would block any effort to bring a team to Trenton because it would infringe on the 75-mile competition-free zone guaranteed by the league.
Mr. Sakiewicz estimated that about 10 percent of the team's fans came from central and southern New Jersey, a number that could increase if the MetroStars left the Meadowlands and moved to a new stadium it envisioned in Harrison, outside of Newark.
"Certainly having a soccer stadium in Trenton is a great idea," he said. "Trenton is our territory under our agreement with Major League Soccer. We would certainly prevent a major league team from going there."
So far, the league has been noncommittal.
"The MetroStars certainly would have the right to express themselves if there was going to be a potential for infringement of their boundaries," said Nelson Rodriguez, assistant to the commissioner. "Ultimately a decision would be taken in concert with them and the owners."
A week after visiting the site, Mr. Berger's voice, usually calm and confident, sounded strained over the telephone. He said he had been told by Major League Soccer that the MetroStars were its priority.
"There is this view out there that we're doing all of this to make the MetroStars look bad," he said with a touch of exasperation in his voice. "One of the things we decided to do was be very affirmative. We have these emerging transportation, education projects and yet we've somehow been pulled back into 'Are we polluting the waters of somebody else's effort?' "
The MetroStars are seeking to have their new stadium financed entirely by public money, even exploring the possibility of getting in on the proposal to build a new arena in Newark, which has been described by Bret D. Schundler, the Republican gubernatorial candidate, as a "Christmas tree" because of the various projects added to gain legislative support.
In contrast, NTC Partners has proposed financing the stadium without help from the taxpayers, though Mr. Berger said that their bid would be more attractive to the league if the state could contribute about a third of the price tag. Mr. Berger has offered to put up almost $10 million.
Assuming the league, the MetroStars, and NTC partners can smooth over matters, the question remains whether the market will be oversaturated.
When Ken Samu, the minority owner of the Trenton Lightning, an indoor football team that played in the Sovereign Bank Arena, read about the proposed stadium, he said he was astonished. 
"Are they nuts?" Mr. Samu said he remembered thinking.
In July, six games into the Lightning's inaugural season, the team folded. It was the second team in six weeks to fail at the arena; the Trenton Shooting Stars, a minor league basketball team that also played there, met a similar fate.
To be sure, each team had its own reason for failing. Both, said the arena's general manager, Michael Scanlon, were mismanaged and overly optimistic. In addition to the arena's operating costs, which are running about $575,000 a year higher than projected, the state has had to contribute an additional $7 million over the last two years.
In contrast, the Trenton Titans, a minor league hockey team that also plays at the arena, and the Trenton Thunder, a minor league baseball that plays at Waterfront Park, are both considered highly successful.
"Now it's two and two," said Herb Greenfield, owner of the Shooting Stars, when asked if he thought professional soccer could be successful in Trenton. "What do you think?"
But even the Titans and the Thunder each average fewer than 7,000 fans a game. The Lightning averaged 3,000, and the Shooting Stars 1,000. For the soccer stadium to succeed, it would have to keep pace with the Major League Soccer average of 14,000 tickets sold for each game.
Mr. Berger and Mr. Oliu know these numbers well. But they have some of their own. According to the New Jersey Interscholastic Athletic Association, 26,946 high school students play organized soccer. New Jersey Youth Soccer has even more impressive numbers: 160,053 children from the ages of 3 to 19 were participating in soccer leagues as of last month.
To doubters who claim that Pennsylvanians will never cross the bridge to attend sporting events, the Titans and the Thunder offer contradictory evidence. Based on fan surveys and season ticket sales, the Thunder estimate that 40 percent of their fans are from Pennsylvania, though the team's general manager, Rick Brenner, conceded that most came from neighboring Bucks County, not Philadelphia.
Richard Lisk, vice president for marketing and the Titans' assistant general manager, said that from 11 percent to 15 percent of his team's fans were from Pennsylvania.
But even beyond these statistics, argued Mr. Oliu, soccer fans are a "unique breed."
"Soccer fans are so starved for their own experience," he said. "They are tremendously loyal and they hunt out their games as best they can."
This city has also planned improvements, to be completed by 2004, to make Union FC's position more attractive. For instance, a train line is being built between Camden and Trenton that would stop directly in front of the stadium. The Trenton train station -- connected to Philadelphia by mass transit and a short walk from the arena district, will be undergoing a $30 million renovation; the blocks separating them will be will transformed into a promenade.
Mayor Douglas Palmer and Mercer County Executive Robert Prunetti said they were convinced the city could benefit from the proposed improvements.
"We're willing to talk about ways that we can be helpful and supportive," Mr. Palmer said. "We believe we could be the next Green Bay. We could be what Green Bay is to the Packers."
As for Mr. Prunetti: "I was impressed. I was a little skeptical going into the meeting. But they seem to have a pretty good strategy and some clear objectives."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Oliu, left, and Larry Berger of NTC Partners want to build a professional soccer stadium at the site of the old Roebling factory complex in Trenton. (Photographs by Rich Schultz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); HISTORY (75%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (73%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RETAILERS (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (53%) SOCCER; STADIUMS AND ARENAS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: OLIU, PAUL; BERGER, LARRY; HOLLANDER, SOPHIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (78%) TRENTON (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



217 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Monika Jegelka, Grover Fitch

 BODY:
Monika Lazaro Jegelka, a daughter of Ingrid Jegelka Uros of Castellon, Spain, and Ismael Lazaro Perez of Madrid, was married yesterday to Grover Atkinson Fitch, the son of Carol and Daniel G. Fitch of Bristol, R.I. The Rev. Paul S. Koumrian performed the ceremony at the Westport Point United Methodist Church in Westport Point, Mass. 
 The bride, 33, is an investment associate in Manhattan working with private clients of the International Finance Corporation, part of the World Bank. She graduated summa cum laude from California State University. Her father retired as a flight engineer for the Spanish airline Iberia in Madrid. Her mother, also retired, was an elementary school language teacher in Madrid. 
 The bridegroom, 40, is a director for investment banking in the Manhattan office of Barclays Capital, part of Barclays Bank of London. He graduated from Hamilton College and received an M.B.A. from Dartmouth. His mother retired as a librarian at Cardinal Spellman High School in the Bronx. His father retired as an executive vice president in Manhattan for the credit division of the former Marine Midland Bank. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: LLOYDS BANK (BLSA) LTD (56%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%); HSBC BANK USA NA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: JEGELKA, MONIKA LAZARO (MONIKA LAZARO FITCH); FITCH, GROVER ATKINSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MADRID, SPAIN (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



218 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Solar Power IsReaching Where Wires Can't

BYLINE:  By DAVID LIPSCHULTZ 

 BODY:
TWO hours outside Durban, South Africa, deep in the Valley of a Thousand Hills, Myeka High School had no electricity. Students struggled to read by candlelight, and few textbooks and newspapers were available. The school was clearly having a hard time doing its job: only 30 percent of the students graduated, and even those had little hope of going beyond their isolated village.
 Then, in the spring of last year, solar energy came to town. Photovoltaic solar panels, firing up 2.4 kilowatts of power, were brought into the school by the Solar Electric Light Fund, a nonprofit group based in Washington. SELF also persuaded Dell Computer and Infosat Telecommunications to donate computers and a satellite uplink so that the students could have Internet access. 
 Now that the students can download materials from the Internet and have access to the Learning Channel, the graduation rate has shot up to 70 percent. Some students have won science awards, and many are applying for college. "I never thought the sun could do all this," said Melusi Zwane, the school's principal. 
Myeka is a vivid example of the impact of computers on society. But what makes this tale stand out is the arrival of solar power. "It's the reason for all that we have now," Mr. Zwane said. "Everything comes from power."
Business has long been keenly aware of the potential of providing energy to deprived areas. And interest in narrowing the world's much-discussed digital divide, between the connected and the unconnected, has only made the opportunity more inviting.
That is why energy projects like the one at Myeka High School are not solely philanthropic. Though many financing hurdles remain, there is money to be made, especially for solar energy companies, when markets like these go online. 
In fact, according to Strategies Unlimited, a market research firm in Mountain View, Calif., for the solar industry, roughly 40 percent, or $1.2 billion, of the $3 billion worldwide solar business last year came from rural markets like the Valley of a Thousand Hills. In the United States, for example, solar has had decent sales as an environmentally friendly complement to the existing power grid, but there is a more immediate need for it in rural areas. Strategies Unlimited predicts that the leading companies in the industry, like the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, Siemens, BP, Sanyo Electric, Sharp, Kyocera and AstroPower, will continue to have revenue growth of about 20 percent a year from these markets. That will make the remote rural market alone worth roughly $2.5 billion by 2005.
Two billion people, roughly 30 percent of the world population, are off the energy grid, living in areas without utility services. And a billion of them have the means to pay for power, said Prof. Daniel M. Kammen, director of the Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory at the University of California at Berkeley. 
According to solar industry vendors and analysts, many of these billion people spend $5 to $10 a month on kerosene, almost exclusively for lights. Solar power, of course, has many more uses, and by amortizing the start-up costs over perhaps five years, the total cash outlay is about the same. 
"There's a lot of money to be made in converting those people to solar," said Dr. Allen M. Barnett, chief executive of AstroPower, a publicly traded company based in Newark.
In July, for example, Shell Solar signed an agreement with the Sun Oasis Company, a distributor in Beijing, to supply systems for up to 78,000 households in rural western China.
ASIDE from selling directly to remote areas, solar energy companies are expected to achieve much of their growth in powering telecommunications companies that want to extend their services, including the Internet. 
"In some cases the economics involving off-grid power, such as power generators, don't allow telecom carriers to go further out," said David Dunsworth, director for power systems of Hutton Communications, a Dallas-based distributor of telecommunications equipment. "Solar allows them to do it."
Robert A. Freling, executive director of SELF, said, "There's no question that telecommunications and computer availability are major issues when trying to get communities online, but without energy you can't even talk about those." 
Solar power has become the energy of choice in many rural markets, in large part because the price has dropped considerably in the last few years. Prorating over roughly 10 years, the upfront cost of solar panels and accompanying batteries gives the energy a cost of roughly 18 cents a kilowatt-hour, competitive with any off-grid power. 
Moreover, solar energy has no moving parts, unlike other renewable sources, including wind and hydro, which makes it easy to maintain in areas where technicians are hard to find. 
Solar power's attractiveness off the grid, and an overall interest among governments, corporations and international organizations in bridging the digital divide, have put it in a sweet spot. 
"I think getting people online in rural areas will be a huge growth driver going forward for local solar companies," said Steve Cunningham, an investment officer for the Energy House Capital Corporation of Bloomfield, N.J., one of several private American equity firms that have millions of dollars to invest in energy companies in rural markets in the developing world. 
But big challenges remain. Though they can last for 20 years, solar panels and batteries cost a minimum of $500 for a small house. That would be a huge upfront payment for many people, said Charles Gay, a director of Greenstar, a nonprofit group based in Los Angeles that promotes the use of solar energy in bringing remote areas online.
"Coming up with a viable financing arrangement is definitely one of the biggest challenges," Mr. Barnett of AstroPower said. 
International organizations like the World Bank and the United Nations Development Program have started to put money into projects, and businesses, to help solve the financing problem. 
Two years ago, the International Finance Corporation, the private investment arm of the World Bank, began investing $30 million through its Photovoltaic Market Transformation Initiative for solar projects in developing countries like India and Morocco.
But some people contend that even though these projects provide power for remote areas, many people in those areas have more pressing priorities than spending their scarce dollars on computers and Internet access. 
"Clearly, for those numerous people in the developing world that are hungry or sick, food and health must take priority over everything, even education," said Lester Brown, chairman of the Worldwatch Institute in Washington.
But many people who are involved in solar projects say the access to power can help deal with those issues, too. 
In some remote villages, the economy is "a barter system where they exchange crops for kerosene, kerosene for medicine and things like that," Mr. Gay said. "You have to give them the resources to transform themselves into a real currency-earning society."
IN Parvathapur, a remote village in south-central India that is off the power grid, Greenstar is starting to find evidence of that. Last year, Greenstar invested about $75,000 in solar panels, computers and Internet access to provide the village with money-generating tools.
The village now sells its music, art and calendars online to customers who include expatriate Indians in the United States. Fifty-five percent of the revenue now goes to Greenstar to pay back the initial solar and infrastructure expenditure. "Within four years, we expect to have recovered our investment," Mr. Gay said. 
Once the money is paid back, Greenstar's share will fall to 10 percent, which will go toward financing other projects in places like Jamaica, Ghana and the West Bank or future ones in Brazil and Tibet. "It's a self-replicating finance mechanism," he said.
In return, villages like Parvathapur receive not only a way to build a micro-economy for their music and arts products, but also a tool to better support their principal source of income, agriculture. 
Mr. Gay said the village is using the Internet to learn the most efficient times to plant and harvest crops and the best markets in which to sell them. "The village is making more money than before," he said.
Over the last two years, with a similar goal in mind, the Grameen Bank has financed more than 30 rural communities in Bangladesh for energy projects. It gives interest-bearing loans to people in those areas to buy Internet connectivity products like solar panels and phone equipment. Enough entrepreneurial activity has emerged to achieve a 90 percent payback rate on the loans.
SELF has provided revolving-credit loans to various areas for home lighting. When it comes to projects with fully integrated Internet access, SELF relies on grants and does not have a specific repayment plan. It says it hopes that some type of commerce arises from the efforts.
Building such commerce appears crucial. Many vendors and project managers agree that if a village cannot set up a business model and generate enough income from the new energy and the Internet access, it will eventually be in the dark again.
"I've seen it many times," Mr. Gay said. "If the community isn't self-sustaining after a while, none of this will work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Solar power is opening doors to the Internet for many people with no access to traditional energy sources. The arrival of solar panels at Myeka High School in a remote area of South Africa, above, has allowed students to learn online skills, left. Panels are also used in homes, below. (Photographs from the Solar Electric Light Fund) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CHARITIES (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (62%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (54%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SOLAR ENERGY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RURAL AREAS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (80%); SIEMENS AG (58%); KYOCERA CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: STRATEGIES UNLIMITED 

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (80%); RDSA (AMS) (80%); RDS.B (NYSE) (80%); RDS.A (NYSE) (80%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); KYO (NYSE) (51%); 6971 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (80%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: LIPSCHULTZ, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) SOUTH AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



219 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Truer Gauge Of Living Standards Bodes Ill

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
GOOD news and bad news chased each other last week. A couple of statistics suggested that manufacturing output might finally be rising, and then on Friday, the unemployment rate shot up. Adding to the general gloom, a rather significant statistic that the government began to publish only last year is not going in the right direction at all.
 The offender is net domestic product. We all know about gross domestic product, which tracks the rising, or shrinking, value of all the goods and services that the nation produces. So far, it is rising, by just enough to keep the economy out of recession. Net domestic product, on the other hand, is shrinking. And N.D.P., because it tracks what people have available for consumption, is a truer measure of living standards. 
 "The decline in net domestic product is saying in essence that incomes are declining, that people have less goods and services available for consumption than were available in the previous quarter," said Brent Moulton, chief of the division at the Bureau of Economic Analysis that calculates domestic product, gross and net.
Net domestic product has contracted before. But net and gross swung together, rising or falling in tandem as the economy changed. Only once before did the two part company, with G.D.P. rising and N.D.P. falling. That happened late in 1982, as the nation was coming out of a severe recession. Now it is happening again -- and for a longer period. While gross domestic product rose slightly from January through June, net domestic product declined -- by a minuscule $600 million in the first quarter and a more significant $27.1 billion in the second. The decrease has probably accelerated in the third quarter.
To visualize the difference between net and gross, imagine a resourceful castaway alone on an island. He builds a cottage (he brought tools), fashions a fishing net, builds a boat, cultivates a vegetable garden (he brought seeds), traps game, makes clothing from skins. His output rises and he has ample food and creature comforts. 
But then his island is hit by a hurricane, and a portion of his time must be devoted to repair. His output is the same as before or slightly more, but a significant part is devoted to repairing what was lost. He rebuilds his damaged home and replants the ravaged garden but has less time to fish, hunt or make clothing. So his food supply and creature comforts dwindle.
That is roughly what is happening in America today, only the process is known as depreciation. Output is still rising, but a growing portion of that output is diverted to replacement, mainly to the replacement of machinery and equipment used up in production. That is particularly the case for computers and software, now so important in a modern economy. Their useful life is relatively short, comparable to the useful life of a flimsy house in a hurricane zone.
THE shift to information technology makes economic slowdowns a bigger problem today. We no longer have enough output to keep the supply of consumable goods and services -- a k a income -- rising and also pay for depreciation. Slow growth was less damaging in the era of assembly-line machinery, which did not depreciate as rapidly as our modern array of capital equipment and did not have to be replaced as often. The hit to income was less. 
Put another way, net domestic product shrinks more easily than in the past, and if the contractions last long enough, then a new definition of recession may emerge. The current definition focuses on gross and ignores net: two quarters of a shrinking gross domestic product constitute a recession.
Most economists argue that gross domestic product should remain the all-important measure of the nation's well-being. After all, G.D.P. tells us today that total output is still rising and people are employed. Our castaway is hard at work, even though the food on his plate -- the goods and services available for consumption -- is dwindling. The problem is that a year or so of producing more and taking home less would make a mockery of the popular definition of a recession. A mild expansion would feel increasingly like a recession.
G.D.P. is still a more important indicator of the health of the economy than N.D.P., but the latter is gaining in stature and is more likely to go its own way in the future, stubbornly contracting when the gross is expanding. That is useful to know. The nation's forecasters are bravely insisting that a rebound is finally developing and that G.D.P. will be up in the third quarter. It may be. But keep in mind that the net has contracted at an accelerating rate for six months and is probably still contracting in the third quarter. Postpone the applause.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the quarterly change in gross domestic product and net domestic product since the 1st quarter of 2000. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (67%); GARDENING (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); HURRICANES (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; NET DOMESTIC PRODUCT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



220 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BENDING ELBOWS; 
After Several Volleys, They're Feeling No Pain

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
The sporting field, it is said, is the one place in life where you cannot lie. Either you punch or you're pummeled.
 The sports bar, on the other hand, is an encyclopedia of tall tales and conquests never realized, a diary of near misses and woulda-coulda-shoulda's. 
 The sport of drinking has advantages. The ecstasy is cheap, usually bought for $20 or less, and it involves little practice.
Take the United States Open tennis tournament in Flushing, Queens. During the event the National Tennis Center is smothered in youth, beauty and skill, with a bevy of tanned legs whose owners speak in European tongues. For this species, multigrain cereal, soy milk and raw vegetables are the ingredients of life.
But there is always a bar, and there is one at the Open. Those gladiators gag on fresh air and prefer to pay to watch other people run around and look good. Victory is more easily found in strong drinks with strong colors, perhaps red-eye pink or electric lime. Or simply neat. It is washed down with nacho chips and liquid cheese.
At this bar, it seems, everybody is a tennis player, where they recite this platitude: "Hey, I only smoke when I drink."
The crowd is Polo and Hugo Boss. They have law degrees and nice ZIP codes. At the Open bar you are likely to here whopping stories of braggadocio.
"Six figures," the headhunter said. "Should be high threes for me this year despite the economy."
"Some of my best friends are black," insisted the secretary. 
And this jewel: "The Hamptons are fabulous."
Tennis and drinking were refined on the British Isles, said Steve Aldridge, a Londoner, who believes that alcohol is the elixir of life. "Think for a moment if you will," said Mr. Aldridge, a pale, slightly round man. "People don't die from drinking. They die when they stop drinking."
Mr. Aldridge went on. "Hemingway gave up drinking and died six months later. James Joyce thought he'd live longer if he stopped drinking. He was gone within the year. Richard Harris, the British actor? Drank himself silly for 70 years. He just quit and he's next."
"That's so true!" agreed a group of smoking, middle-aged tennis women.
"Basically," Mr. Aldridge said. "if you're going to die from drink, it'll be by 50."
The moral: You don't want to unpickle the cucumber. And the rule of the drinking game: Live a little. So fitness freaks were not asked to participate in the game at the bar, not even at the Open.
A woman was doing ballerina stretches at the end of the bar, her foot on the rail. "Hey, lady," the barman barked. "Not in here, please." CHARLIE LeDUFF

GRAPHIC: Photo: National Tennis Center, 5:30 P.M. (EDWARD KEATING/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); SMOKING (71%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (70%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (50%) BARS; TENNIS; UNITED STATES OPEN (TENNIS) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TENNIS CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



221 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK CENSUS; 
Just Me and You, Kid

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
Ocean Village, a cluster of beige buildings crying with age, overlooks an empty, broken-down boardwalk and a stretch of sea. The complex, which runs from Beach 59th Street to Beach 56th Place in the Rockaways, has one of the city's highest concentrations of single-parent families.
 Many who live here, in neighborhoods like Edgemere and Arverne, receive housing vouchers from the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Section 8 program, which helps low-income tenants pay their rent; the goal is to integrate them into racially and economically mixed neighborhoods. The Rockaways have 5,000 units of public housing, more than 200 S.R.O. buildings, and the city's highest concentration of adult homes, said Jonathan Gaska, district manager of Community Board 14 in Queens. Many residents are black and poor. 
 "The Rockaways is really one of the furthest points from City Hall," he said. "The Rockaways have been used as a Siberia, where the city has sent its problems."
Roxana Harris, 32, is a single mother who has lived in Ocean View for more than 20 years. She works as a medical assistant, has a 16-year-old son and receives Section 8 money. "In the beginning it was nice, but now I'm scared for my son," she said. "Some of the boys from the projects don't like the boys here." Ms. Harris said there were few jobs nearby, "a lot of drugs" and little to do. "I'm looking forward to moving out of Rockaway," she said.
Like the Rockaways, the stretch of Brownsville many single parents call home is not known for its racial diversity. Three public housing projects -- Tilden, Howard and Van Dyke 1 -- are nearly 80 percent black, with an average income of $12,077, says the city Housing Authority. Nearly 30 percent are on welfare. ERIKA KINETZ

GRAPHIC: Drawing (William McNulty and Sarah Slobin/The New York Times) Chart/MapPeople say that becoming a parent will change your life. They also say that if parents knew what they were getting into, they might not make the leap. But being a parent without a partner is vaulting into the beyond. This map looks at the census category of "single-parent families" as a percentage of familes. HIGHEST PERCENTAGE -- Brownsville: 66%Hamilton Heights: 62%Fort Greene: 62%Edgemere: 61%(Source: 2000 census data. Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College sociology department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARENTS (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); CITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CENSUS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; SINGLE PERSONS; HOUSING 

PERSON: KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; ROCKAWAY PENINSULA (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



222 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Vivian Marino 

 BODY:
The Kitchen Sink? No, But It Has a Cooler
 Scott Adams, the creator of the Dilbert comic strip, which chronicles the woes of America's white-collar workers, says he has received thousands of e-mail messages over the years from people complaining about their work cubicles. "I feel their pain because I served a 16-year sentence in cubicles during my corporate career," he said. 
 Just for the fun of it, he recently teamed up with Ideo, an art studio in Palo Alto, Calif., to design what he called "the ultimate cubicle." Along with regular features like a desk, chair and phone, it includes a personal cooler, "rotating floor modules" that allow workers to shift, say, from a Persian rug to AstroTurf; a "boss monitor" that lets underlings see their boss's office door from their PC's; and lights to simulate the sun's movement.
Diagrams and pictures can be viewed at dilbert.com and ideo.com.
Most cubicles today, Mr. Adams said, can be customized into a flexible work space that highlights privacy, individuality and efficiency. However, few employers deviate from industry standards.
And what do most cubicle workers want most? A door, of course.
But, "if you put a door on it, it becomes an office, doesn't it?" he said.

Where the Jobs Still Are
American employers have eliminated nearly a million jobs so far this year, but job recruiters say a few industries are still looking to fill positions. 
Job placement services report strong demand in biotechnology, energy and construction, while executive search services are finding plenty of openings in the areas of medical devices and human resources, according to a recent survey of 600 recruiters nationwide. The survey was conducted by two online recruiting services companies, Airs and Sendouts.com, and the results were released last week.
About three-quarters of the recruiters predicted that the economic downturn would continue into next year, which would likely mean even more job cuts.
The rising number of unemployed Americans has been a mixed blessing for recruiters themselves. Just over half said good candidates were easier to find these days, after a decadelong talent shortage, but about 70 percent reported a shortage of employers willing to hire them.
"Recruiters have an entirely new business problem to grapple with -- finding hot sectors, the companies that are hiring and the decision makers inside those companies," said Mike Foster, the chief executive of Airs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); OFFICE FURNITURE (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SENTENCING (71%); MEDICAL DEVICES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) OFFICES; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; UNEMPLOYMENT; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ENERGY AND POWER; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; DESIGN 

ORGANIZATION: IDEO PRODUCT DESIGN CO 

PERSON: MARINO, VIVIAN; ADAMS, SCOTT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



223 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Cleaner Cars Are Here, if You Can Find Them

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
AS long as Americans could count on stable prices for gasoline, they did not have much interest in vehicles that ran on anything else. But unpredictable fuel prices have helped to spur demand in a small assortment of cars and trucks that are available with diesel engines and for hybrid vehicles that run on a combination electric motor and gasoline engine.
 "It's always great to go 500 miles on less than $20 in gas," said Jim Alden of Hollywood, who recently sold his 1994 Honda Accord and bought a $22,000 silver 2001 Toyota Prius, one of two hybrid gas-electric vehicles on the market, along with the Honda Insight. 
 Mr. Alden, 39, had paid more than $2 a gallon for gasoline earlier this year during his frequent road trips for his business, which maintains computer networks for small companies. But it was not just a need to save money on gas that prompted him to buy an alternative-fuel vehicle. 
"I was motivated by the technology, and it's so good for the environment," he said.
A growing number of consumers appear to share his interest. According to CNW Marketing/Research of Bandon, Ore., which studies consumer behavior, about 37 percent of car shoppers in 2001 considered themselves "extremely concerned" about the environment, more than triple the 11 percent who put themselves in that category in 1996.
Still, sales of alternative-fuel vehicles make up only a fraction of the overall market for cars and trucks -- about 50,000 of more than 16 million vehicles sold nationwide this year. That is partly because they are not as plentiful in the United States as they are elsewhere, where gas prices tend to be much higher. And drivers who want to switch will probably have to make some adjustments: the new fuel-efficient vehicles lack some of the convenience and, in some cases, the comforts of conventional ones. They may also be more expensive than gasoline-powered cars of similar size.
Diesel power, the most familiar alternative for improving fuel economy, is a popular choice for buyers of big pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles like the Ford F-Series, the Dodge Ram and the Chevrolet Suburban. Analysts expect sales of about 500,000 diesel-powered trucks and S.U.V.'s this year, about the same as last year.
BUT for Americans, finding a diesel vehicle can be difficult. The chief source now is Volkswagen; diesel versions of its New Beetle, Jetta and Golf have been flying out of showrooms this year.
Dealers exhausted their supply of 2001 models by mid-July and since then have been taking orders for the 2002 versions, which should start arriving this month. If sales continue at their year-to-date pace, VW dealers will sell about 23,000 diesels this year, about 8 percent of VW's total sales of 365,000 vehicles in the United States. While dealers are urging Volkswagen to ship more diesels to America for the 2002 model year, which starts this fall, VW's supply is limited because its diesels are so popular abroad. In Europe, more than half the cars sold are diesel-powered; the figure is as high as 75 percent in Italy and France.
All diesel cars sold by VW in the United States have a 1.9-liter, 90-horsepower turbo-charged engine, which gets above-average gas mileage -- 42 m.p.g. in city driving, 49 on the highway. (By contrast, a gasoline Golf, with a 2.0-liter engine, gets 22 m.p.g. in the city and 28 on the highway.) Unlike past diesels, which spit and chugged and were generally noisy, the modern VW diesels with redesigned engines are smooth and quiet, providing relatively peppy acceleration, given the engine's small size. (Prices start at around $17,600 for the Golf, $19,300 for the New Beetle and $19,700 for the Jetta -- slightly higher than the nondiesel models.)
The primary drawback is the same frustration known by many past owners: finding fuel. Gas stations in some cities and suburbs do not carry diesel, so the primary source is truck stops, which can be inconvenient.
Availability of fuel is not a problem for owners of hybrid gas-electric cars like the Insight and the Prius (pronounced PREE-us), which use unleaded gasoline to bolster the thrust of an electric motor. Those cars also have an advantage over recent, purely electric cars like the EV1 from General Motors, which proved too expensive and quirky to find wide acceptance. The EV1, introduced in 1996, was available only in California and Arizona and was discontinued in 1999. 
Unlike electric cars, hybrid gas-electric cars need no special equipment, like battery-charging stations.
"A lot of people are surprised that you don't have to plug them in," said Ernest Bastien, corporate marketing manager at Toyota Motor Sales USA, who is in charge of American sales for the Prius. The car became available in Japan in 1997 and in the United States last year.
But first, you have to find one. Both the Prius and the Insight are in short supply -- the Prius is sold out until April, while the Insight can be extremely scarce in markets like California, where they are most popular. (The City of New York just bought 231 of them, while New York State and New Jersey bought several dozen to be used by municipal and state agencies.)
Of the pair, Prius is clearly the more conventional in appearance. It closely resembles the Toyota Corolla subcompact, on which it is based. It has an automatic transmission, four doors, seating for five people, plenty of interior room and a large trunk. But it costs about $20,000, or at least $5,000 more than a comparably equipped Corolla. Toyota expects to sell about 14,000 Prius cars during this calendar year.
The Insight, which also starts at around $20,000, makes a bolder statement. It is a low-slung, two-seat hatchback with an aluminum body that brings to mind an inverted bathtub. It has a 1.0-liter, three-cylinder engine and until the 2002 model year was available only with a manual transmission. Honda now offers an automatic.
If the Insight lags behind the Prius in practicality, it whooshes ahead in fuel economy, getting 61 m.p.g. in city driving and 68 on the highway. Many owners say they have achieved 70 m.p.g. or more under optimum conditions. 
While the Prius is not as frugal, it performs better in city driving than on the open road. It is rated 52 m.p.g. city, 45 m.p.g. highway. Both cars are more efficient at slower speeds, which make greater use of electric power, than at high speeds, which require a blast of gasoline.
TO achieve those figures, however, Honda and Toyota encourage owners to drive sedately, without quick starts or stops. "If you're a hot-rodder, and you expect to get the numbers we claim, you're going to be disappointed," said Andrew Boyd, a spokesman for Honda in Detroit. 
Jeff Harris, a Chicago lawyer, says he is averaging 55 m.p.g. in his Insight because he spends so much time in stop-and-go traffic. Mr. Harris bought his Insight last April, before gas prices climbed in his area, and bargained his dealer down to $15,200, so he considers his car a good value.
Mr. Harris, 39, says there is just one irritation about owning an Insight: the attention it draws.
"Sometimes it's an annoyance, because people want to stop and talk to you all the time," he said of his car.
Soon after he bought it, Mr. Harris recalled rolling up to a four-way stop, along with three other cars. He waited for one of the others to proceed. But none did: they were all staring at his car.
The Insight and the Prius are about to have challengers in the hybrid market. Following Toyota with something more conventional, Honda will introduce a hybrid version of its subcompact Civic, due early next year. Chrysler plans a hybrid Dodge Durango sport utility, in spring 2002, while Ford plans a hybrid version of its small Escape S.U.V.
Mr. Alden, the Prius owner, says he is delighted with his new car and is looking forward to having more hybrid vehicles on the market.
"It wasn't long ago that American manufacturers were saying, 'this can't be done,' " he said. "Well, this really is what the public is buying."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I was motivated by the technology, and it's so good for the environment," Jim Alden said of his new Toyota Prius, a hybrid car. (Kim Kulish/Saba for The New York Times) Chart: "Increasing concern about the environment . . ."How new-vehicle buyers rated their level of environmental concern Graph shows figures of people whose concern is classified as: NOT AT ALL, EXTREMELY, or SOMEWHAT (from 1996). . . . may bode well for sales of hybrid vehicles Honda InsightToyota Prius2000: 3,7882001: 3,601* 2000: 5,562+2001: 9,754* *Through August.+August 2000 was first full month of sales. (Sources: CNW Marketing/Research; American Honda; Toyota Motor Sales USA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (63%) AIR POLLUTION; AUTOMOBILES; DIESEL POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES 

ORGANIZATION: CNW MARKETING/RESEARCH 

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



224 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
In theBond Market, Is It All Downhill From Here?

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
THE bond market has been a wonderful place for investors in 2001.
 Through August, corporate bonds have been on a pace to return more than 14 percent this year. Municipal bonds are on track to return 10 percent, which is an after-tax return of more than 15 percent for top-bracket investors. And while junk bonds, at 9 percent, and Treasury bonds and notes, at 8 percent, are not doing as well, they still look fabulous when compared with the negative performance of stocks. 
 But as the summer ends, investors might want to consider whether the good news can continue. Even though employment data for August was surprisingly weak and drove interest rates lower, rates now may have hit bottom or may even be on their way back up, which would cause bond prices to fall. If rates are indeed switching direction, what should investors do?
Jerome J. Jacobs, chief investment officer of the tax-exempt group at Putnam Investments, a mutual fund company based in Boston, says he believes that interest rates will be rising. So he is recommending that investors move out of the Treasury market, which he says will be the most vulnerable to a rate upturn. Depending on their risk tolerance, he says, some investors should be moving money into corporate bonds while others should shift money toward junk bonds.
What may be happening now occurred in April. That was when all four of these bond markets sold off as interest rates rose, after more than 10 months of decline. As August ended, however, rates had fallen back near recent lows or to new ones as economic pessimism spread. The yield on the Treasury's two-year note was at 3.61 percent, the lowest since these securities were first issued in 1972. The yield on the 10-year note was at 4.83 percent, not much above its March low.
But on Tuesday, interest rates shot higher when the National Association of Purchasing Management reported that its manufacturing index jumped to 47.9 in August, from 43.6 in July. The surprising surge seemed to pierce the economic pessimism that was prevalent in August, leaving investors thinking the economy might be ready to rebound.
On Wednesday, several major corporations, including General Motors and Sara Lee, announced a total of $15 billion of new bond sales, another sign of a belief in an economic turnaround and rising interest rates. 
The swoon in the the stock market at the end of the week and the very sluggish jobs report pushed interest rates down again. But longer-term rates were still above their March low, with the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note at 4.78 percent.
"If you are banking on a continuation of yields dropping in high-quality bonds, you are fooling yourself," Mr. Jacobs said, referring to Treasury securities and corporate and tax-exempt municipal bonds with credit ratings above single-A.
For conservative investors, he recommended a shift from Treasuries to corporate bonds, to get the higher yields offered by this sector of the fixed-income market. That better yield would help offset some losses as bond prices fall. Based on Merrill Lynch's fixed-income indexes, the yield from Treasury notes and bonds is under 5 percent while corporates are yielding just over 6 percent.
Mr. Jacobs said aggressive investors should move money into high-yield bonds, which were a big hit at the beginning of the year but suffered in the spring when it appeared that the economy was weak, raising the prospect of many more corporate defaults. Rising interest rates would cause bond prices to fall, but if the jump in rates is a signal of economic improvement, he said, junk bonds would benefit because their default rate would decline.
INVESTORS who are already in the corporate or municipal markets can adjust to the new environment by moving money into lower quality -- single-A and below -- investment-grade corporates and tax-exempt municipal bonds, which are less risky than junk but still offer attractive yields and would be helped by an economic turnaround. The average yield on Merrill Lynch's high-yield index is about 12.5 percent and the yield on corporate bonds at the low end of the investment grade scale is about 7 percent.
"All of these areas are more rewarding right now," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leaving Stocks Behind"The bond market has performed well for investors this year, as shown by the returns on Merrill Lynch bond indexes. Municipal bonds*Through August: +6.67%Annualized return: +10.09 High-yield bondsThrough August: +5.95%Annualized return: +9.00 Corporate bondsThrough August: +9.61Annualized return: +14.64 U.S. Treasury bonds and notesThrough August: +5.79%Annualized return: 8.75 *Not tax-adjusted(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



225 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/2002 Toyota Camry; 
After Lots of Laurels, No Resting

BYLINE:  By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
REMEMBER when ordinary folks drove cars instead of S.U.V.'s? Actually, a lot of them still do. And while Detroit has put a lot of its marketing muscle into high-markup, high-profit, truck-based vehicles, Japanese manufacturers -- in particular, Toyota -- have been busy covering all of their bets.
 The latest fruit of Toyota's labors is a new version of the Camry, the best-selling family sedan in America for the last four years. It is bigger, quieter, more powerful and handles better than the last-generation Camry -- yet comparably equipped models carry lower sticker prices. That's good news for drivers less interested in making a lifestyle statement than in getting from here to there reliably and comfortably. 
 But it spells trouble for Honda, which has a year to go before it brings out a new Accord (though the Accord is actually leading the Camry in sales for the year to date). And it will surely add to the woes of Ford, which must now depend on a six-year-old Taurus design to hold its place in the market for midsize sedans. 
The Camry attracts more repeat buyers than any other car, Toyota says, and Camry buyers who do move on tend to end up in a more expensive Toyota, like the Avalon. Thus, the Camry is a linchpin in the company's sharply focused drive toward the top of the industry. Toyota's share of the American vehicle market last month, 10.9 percent, trailed Chrysler's by just four percentage points. It could soon be one of the Big Three.
To keep the juggernaut rolling -- and, perhaps, attract younger buyers -- Toyota has restructured the Camry lineup for 2002. Rather than simply layering bigger engines and more luxury features on the base model, the company is offering the Camry on three more or less parallel tracks: standard (LE), luxury (XLE) and sporty (SE), with overlapping prices and features. The bare-bones CE, with its crank windows and extra-cost air-conditioning, is gone.
The LE will remain the high-volume model. But Toyota is expanding the options for the XLE -- notably, by offering a navigation system and other goodies that push the price above $31,000 -- in hopes of capturing crumbs from the lower end of the luxury market. And it expects one in five buyers to opt for the SE, with its firmer ride, crisper steering and bigger (16-inch) wheels.
I tested an LE, since Toyota still expects 65 percent of all Camry customers to opt for this model. (About 75 percent of Camry buyers choose a four-cylinder engine, a choice that rivals from the Big Three do not even offer.) Base-line car models are often good value -- both manufacturers and dealers typically depend on gussied-up versions to rake in profits. But, for obvious reasons, they are rarely as nice to look at or as fun to drive. In this case, though, Toyota, has endowed the base model with almost every standout feature of the new Camry. In fact, the four-cylinder, 157-horsepower engine (a new design quite like the one used in the Highlander sport utility), is so good that consumers might think twice before investing in the optional 3-liter, 192-horsepower V-6. Although the four-cylinder can be matched to a five-speed manual transmission, most buyers will choose the electronically controlled four-speed automatic, which is also new.
A look at the LE by the numbers: the aforementioned 2.4-liter engine, with twin cams and variable valve timing, delivers 21 horsepower more than the old Camry's four-cylinder powerplant. That reduces the time it takes to go from a stop to 60 m.p.h. by 1.3 seconds, Toyota says, to a respectable 9.9 seconds with the automatic. Yet, thanks to the new engine design, a more efficient transmission, more aerodynamic body and somewhat lighter weight (3,142 pounds), the four-cylinder LE manages 32 m.p.g. in highway driving (24 in town) in government ratings. It also qualifies as an ultra-low-emission vehicle. What's more, the engine is so finely balanced that nearly all traces of the buzz and vibration endemic to four-cylinder engines have been erased.
Rear legroom -- a big deal for the buyers of family sedans, who really use their back seats -- has been increased by 1.5 inches. And front-seat passengers haven't been slighted in the process: the new Camry's interior is both wider and taller by three-quarters of an inch.
As with most cars, though, the numbers offer only a vague sense of what the car is like to drive. And here, I confess, my expectations were limited. The Camry became the gold standard in midsize sedans because it was immensely practical, delivering solid value and reliable performance. These are virtues, indeed -- but don't get many points with weekend thrill seekers like me, who care more about a car's handling on twisty mountain roads than its fuel efficiency or isolation from road noise.
So I was a bit surprised to find that while the Camry LE is not about to challenge the BMW 3-Series in the excitement department, it is no longer an utter bore to drive. The increase in engine torque and more responsive transmission provide adequate power in passing or entering freeway traffic. And though there is more body roll than I'd like, the suspension was up to the task of keeping the car on track in tight turns. The new Camry handles almost as well as the Accord, whose owners have accepted a somewhat harsher ride in return for surer footing on the road.
For that matter, the unsurprising improvements inside the Camry aren't hard to take, either. The taller, slab-sided exterior, which by no accident makes the Camry look like an Avalon on a diet, is easy on the eye. And it makes the cabin roomier and airier.
The interior is nearly silent at 60 m.p.h., and almost Lexus-like in the attention to detail. The air-conditioning controls are electronic, eliminating the clunk of mechanical switches; the cup holders operate on silky smooth pivots. And the windshield washer delivers a fine mist to the glass rather than a jet of liquid that obscures vision and spills onto the side windows.
The FM radio reception is exceptionally sensitive -- a big plus in rural areas. And later in the model year, Toyota will offer adjustable pedals, a Ford innovation that has proved quite popular.
Though it is now the cheapest Camry, the LE comes pretty well equipped. It has air-conditioning with a pollen and dust filter, a readout showing the outside temperature, a CD player, sunglass holder, power windows and door locks, cruise control, full-size spare tire and a tilt-adjustable steering wheel.
I do have a few gripes. The front seat, while adequate, was too low and offered too little lumbar support to satisfy my aching back. Were I to buy a Camry, I'd shell out the money for the optional power driver's seat with adjustable lumbar support.
Another is Toyota's unwillingness to make advanced safety equipment a priority -- most likely because the company was dead set on keeping the LE's sticker price below $20,000 (before the obligatory $485 delivery charge). Side air bags for the front seats (along with an inflatable curtain to protect heads) are available on the LE, as are antilock brakes, but only as options. (Antilock brakes are standard on the SE and XLE.)
Will the Camry again be the best-selling midsize sedan in America? Since the new model is better in every way than the old one, and since neither the Accord nor the Taurus has much new to offer this year, only production capacity seems likely to hold the Camry back.
Indeed, the only way Honda and Ford are likely to sustain midsize sedan sales in this tepid economy is through industrial-strength discounting. The wild cards in this part of the car market -- and, perhaps, the freshest competition -- are the redesigned Nissan Altima, which is now more roomy, powerful and stylish, and the Kia Optima, a surprisingly substantial sedan at a bargain price.
All that adds up to some great deals in the making for drivers seeking roomy, sensible, fuel-efficient transportation. And, who knows? Maybe it also means a renaissance for the family sedan.

INSIDE TRACK: The gold standard turns platinum.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The LE is the least expensive Camry for 2002, but with a high level of standard equipment, it is likely to be the most popular model. It is available with a new four-cylinder engine or a revised version of the V-6 from the previous Camry. Left: Interior of the sportiest Camry, the SE. (pg. 1); The Camry SE has a firmer suspension, larger tires and sportier trim. (pg. 4) Chart: "Americans' Favorite Midsize Cars" lists features and specifications for selected midsize sedans.(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



226 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Vivian Marino 

 BODY:
A One-Time Adjustment For Changing Tastes
 Young consumers can be a fickle bunch, and few may know that better than the Sharper Image Corporation. 
 The specialty retailer of gadgets, based in San Francisco, was riding fast and furious last year on the strength of its immensely popular Razor scooters -- it seemed that almost every boy and girl had to have one. 
But tastes change, and the scooter is now poised to take its place among Pokemon cards, Beanie Babies and pogs -- hot toys and novelties of past years.
Last week, Sharper Image reported that same-store sales, those at stores open at least a year, declined 32 percent in August from the same period a year ago. Total company sales, including catalog and Internet sales, fell 23 percent. 
Excluding scooter sales, though, same-store sales rose 11 percent, while total company sales increased 19 percent.

Pleasing Customers, and Hippos
Don't accuse the Walt Disney Company of not trying to be politically correct at its Disneyland theme park in Anaheim, Calif.
Theme park operators have revamped the eight-minute Jungle Cruise ride, one of the park's oldest, so that it no longer includes shots fired at mechanical hippopotamuses. The boat captains -- khaki-wearing tour guides -- used to "shoot" at the hippos as they emerged with wiggling ears and open mouths from the river bottom. The changes were made, officials said, in response to comments from patrons.
"It's sad to see the tradition go," Mike DeForest, a former skipper on the ride, told The Associated Press last week.
Others disagreed. "It's really a form of animal cruelty," Debbie Leahy, a spokeswoman for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, said of the ride's previous format. "It's not humorous."

Health Insurance Premiums Rise
Now for more bad news on the health care front. Premiums for employer-sponsored insurance rose 11 percent this year, on average, the largest increase since 1992, according to a study released last week by the Kaiser Family Foundation. 
The group surveyed 2,743 companies between January and May, and the majority of them blamed the cost of prescription drugs and hospital care for driving up premiums. The average annual premium shared by employers and employees was $2,650 for single coverage and $7,053 for family coverage.
Because demand for workers was still strong early this year, most employers did not generally pass along much of the increased cost of premiums to their employees, the foundation found. But that is expected to change. "Health costs are rising while the economy is sputtering, and it looks like workers are going to pay the price," said Dr. Drew Altman, the foundation president. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH MARKET (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (85%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (85%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); MOTORCYCLE DEALERS (77%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); MOTORCYCLES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (67%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (67%); SHOOTINGS (66%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); DRUG PRICES (64%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (63%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (63%); ANIMALS (63%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (61%); HOSPITALS (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (57%); RIVERS (50%) ELECTRONICS; SALES; AMUSEMENT PARKS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FRINGE BENEFITS 

COMPANY: TSIC INC (92%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: SHARPER IMAGE; DISNEY, WALT, CO; KAISER FAMILY FOUNDATION; DISNEYLAND (ANAHEIM, CALIF) 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (92%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (92%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%) SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES; 

PERSON: MARINO, VIVIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



227 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2492 words

HEADLINE: 'Our Mother Missing' 

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
KARIN DICKSON spent 29 years in a white stone building at 857 Union Street, at Seventh Avenue. There is a solid grace about this stretch of Park Slope. The brownstones stack up neatly. The trees are old and generous. The flower boxes are well tended.
 Ms. Dickson fell in love here, had a child here, gave tea parties for her neighbors. Those who know her say she lost her mind here. 
 This much is certain: for nearly three decades, she bought cigarettes from the newsstand across the street from her house. She worked as a cosmetologist at the now-defunct Jarret Drugs. She collected Elvis memorabilia. She was rarely seen without high heels. She drank coffee at the Economy Diner for more than two decades. 
Then one day in spring 2000, she disappeared.
Hers is the case of an individual suffering from mental illness who self-destructs almost before our eyes. In this large, anonymous city, others have stumbled: Michael Joseph Gallagher was evicted and froze to death in a Bronx park in 1996; Joseph Stiletto froze to death in his Greenwich Village apartment in 1988; Eleanor Bumpurs was shot to death by the police in an attempted eviction in 1984; the so-called Wild Man of 96th Street terrorized the Upper West Side for years. Still more will fall.
All are casualties of New York's imperfect network of social services. All are consequences of America's deeply held belief in personal freedom.
Ms. Dickson was born in 1941 in the city of Mainz, Germany, where she worked as a pharmacist's assistant. In 1960, at 19, she married a G.I. who carried her off to Tennessee. There they had two daughters, Sandra and Grace.
In 1971 Ms. Dickson left Tennessee. "She dropped us off with our grandparents and ran away to New York," said Sandra, 2 at the time. 
Ms. Dickson landed in Park Slope. Soon, she found an apartment on Union Street and a boyfriend, Gerald Schaubman, a pharmacist who owned Jarret Drugs and was separated from his wife. With Mr. Schaubman, Ms. Dickson had a third daughter, Sherry, who was born in 1974. But they never married, and by 1980 they were no longer a couple.
When Jarret changed ownership in 1982, Ms. Dickson, who had worked at pink-collar jobs most of her life, went on welfare. In 1985, she had a tumor removed from her jaw. Soon after, Sandra Dickson went to live with her mother. (Grace remained in Tennessee.)
"My mother helped me run away," said Sandra Dickson, who was 17 at the time. "She sent me airline money. She was going to be my happily ever after."
Happily ever after lasted seven and a half months. In October of that year, a week before the daughter's 18th birthday, her mother kicked her out.
Five years later, also at 17, Sherry Dickson left her mother's house, too. "She started throwing things at me and started accusing me of being crazy," she said. "So I called my dad and moved out."
By the early 90's, Karin Dickson had disconnected her telephone. Sandra Dickson no longer spoke with her mother. Sherry Dickson and her father maintained only sporadic contact with her. 
"I would go over to see her a couple of times on holidays," Mr. Schaubman said. "But the relationship just shriveled up." He last saw her at home about five years ago, when he learned that she had turned off her electricity and was using only candles to illuminate her apartment.
The half-sisters moved on. Sandra Dickson, who lives on the Upper East Side, is preparing to be married and is seeking work as a paralegal. Sherry Dickson, who lives in North Brunswick, N.J., works as a temp. Every few months, she said, she called a neighbor or the landlord to see how her mother was holding up.
But except for their long, straight hair, the sisters have little in common. In 1999 a petty argument got out of control, and the two stopped speaking with each other.
Then, on March 7 of last year, city marshals came to Ms. Dickson's apartment to evict her for being a nuisance and nonpayment of rent. Movers were seen taking her possessions to put them in storage. Two mental health workers tried to persuade her to get treatment, but she refused.
"She just walked away," said Janet Jackson, Ms. Dickson's longtime friend and neighbor. "I don't know what she took with her besides her purse."

The Search
Sherry Dickson did not learn of the eviction until May, when Ms. Jackson told her. She was shocked. She said the landlord, Bari Lepelstat, who helps run BB&L Realty Company, never informed her of the eviction. 
Ms. Lepelstat refused repeated requests to comment. But Meryl Wenig, the lawyer who represented BB&L in the eviction proceedings, said: "We were in court for a number of months, and never during that period of time did the family contact me nor did they contact the guardian who was appointed. The landlord is not God. He's not clairvoyant. If the family is concerned that she's at risk, they should have been there."
Once Sherry Dickson learned of the eviction, she began searching for her mother. She called hospitals, homeless shelters and the police. But nothing happened until the night of July 21, when she and a friend were having coffee at Happy Days Diner on Montague Street in Brooklyn Heights.
"It was midnight," she said. "I hear a German accent. Then I see this woman get up. I only see her from behind. She had long, gray scraggly hair."
It was her mother. 
"I called out, 'Mom!' and she didn't answer," said Sherry, "so I called her by her name. She turned around and was like, 'Who the hell are you?' "
The two talked for five hours.
"I gave her my phone number," Sherry Dickson said. "Every number in the world to reach me. I made her promise to meet me for breakfast the next morning, and she did, at Happy Days Diner."
They spent the entire day together.
"The night I ran into her, she was talking about voices," she said. "The next day she was normal. Completely normal, acting as if everything was fine. I asked to take her home, and she was like: 'No, I'm just going to walk around a little bit. I'll be all right. I'll call you in a few days.' "
She never heard from her.
Seven months later, in February of this year, it was Sandra Dickson's turn to discover that her mother had disappeared. The weekend of Feb. 17, she and her fiance went back to her old neighborhood.
"I kept going by Union Street," she said. "I wanted to just take a look and see if everything was O.K. Finally, we passed by, and I looked at the buzzer. Her name wasn't on the buzzer anymore."
Despite their estrangement, Ms. Dickson immediately called her sister, and the two of them tried to trace their mother's trail and figure out where and how she had been living since her eviction. They posted fliers. They spoke with people who had seen her on the D train, in the Borough Hall subway station, on the Promenade, at Ozzie's and Cousin John's in Park Slope, at Happy Days and Connecticut Muffin in Brooklyn Heights. They learned that everything in her apartment had been sold at auction. They learned where she did her laundry.
Karin Dickson was everywhere and nowhere. She was hiding in plain sight.
Ms. Jackson had seen her wandering around the neighborhood.
"She was pushing a little wire shopping basket," Ms. Jackson said. "She had on a coat I didn't recognize. It was clean. Her hair was pinned back like she always wore it. And that was clean. She looked a little more stooped, maybe like she was tired. I thought, 'Oh, I should say something,' but I was rushing to work. I knew that if I started talking to her, it would turn into a long conversation, so I just didn't."
Carl Carew, who worked at Ozzie's, said Ms. Dickson came in every morning at 5:30 and often stayed until 9:30 or 10 at night. At first, she carried a small black purse. Then she carried a suitcase, then bags and a cart wrapped up with rope.
"The conversation would start from different points, but it never really changed," Mr. Carew said. The bank was supposed to call. She couldn't find her friends. She needed another sweater.
One day she walked out of Ozzie's, and Mr. Carew never saw her again. 
Four times the daughters tried to file a missing person report, but without success.
"This person does not qualify as a missing person," said Detective Walter Burnes, a police spokesman. He said a person must be missing from a New York residence to merit an official report. "We're not a homeless-find service," he said.
Then, on March 21, a longtime Park Slope resident walking to work spotted Ms. Dickson near City Hall Park. He telephoned Sandra Dickson, who notified the police. When they arrived, they took Karin Dickson to Bellevue Hospital.
She came to Bellevue after 54 weeks on the streets. This, say her daughters, is what she carried with her:
Her house keys. Her marriage certificate. Her baptism papers. A photograph of her father on his deathbed. Photographs of herself and her daughters as young girls. A blanket. Countless paper bags. A toiletry bag containing an extra pair of panties. A bar of soap in an old cigarette pack. Toothpaste and a toothbrush. Deodorant. A safety razor. A small stuffed rabbit. A key for a safe deposit box.
At the hospital, she was sent to the locked psychiatric ward, where she was diagnosed as suffering from paranoid schizophrenia. Doctors concluded that she was delusional and had impaired judgment. They said she needed to be on a mood stabilizer and antipsychotic and antianxiety medications.
She refused treatment. But a mental health court at Bellevue ruled that medication was in her best interest and that she could be treated against her will for 90 days. On June 21, she was transferred to Rockland Psychiatric Center in Orangeburg, N.Y.

The Eviction
The journey from Union Street to Rockland Psychiatric had begun two years earlier. In June 1999, BB&L Realty began eviction proceedings against Ms. Dickson in Brooklyn Housing Court on the grounds that she had become a nuisance. Court documents allege that her use of candles instead of electric lights to illuminate her apartment created a fire hazard that endangered other tenants. The landlord also asserted that her disruptive behavior caused at least one tenant to move out and drove away several potential renters.
"We had some tenants who left because they did not want to find out if Karin Dickson was going to murder them or if she was just blowing steam because she was imbalanced," said Ms. Wenig, the lawyer. According to Ms. Wenig, the landlord contacted Protective Services for Adults, which is part of the Human Resources Administration, and asked the agency to intervene, but it did not. Subsequently, Ms. Wenig told the court that Ms. Dickson was at risk, and got the judge to order the agency to evaluate her. 
On Nov. 19, Dr. Charles Hayes, a psychiatric consultant for the agency, went with police officers to her apartment. When she refused to let them in, they forced open the door. In his report, Dr. Hayes diagnosed her with "Psychotic disorder, not otherwise specified" and said she had no insight into her impending eviction.
"She told me initially that the fillings in her teeth allowed her to contact the police and E.M.S.," he wrote. "She is at risk of becoming homeless and may be a threat to others if not successfully treated."
The agency ruled that she was eligible for protective services, and Dec. 19 the court appointed a guardian to represent her in the eviction proceedings because her "impaired mental condition" rendered her incapable of defending her rights. In January, the guardian signed a statement agreeing that she would surrender her right to the apartment because she had not paid her $386 monthly rent for nearly a year and her use of candles posed a fire hazard.
Protective Services got the electricity turned back on, but Ms. Dickson refused its help. Because she was not classified as potentially violent, nothing more was done.

Karin Dickson Speaks
On Aug. 13, a week after she became an outpatient at Rockland Psychiatric, Karin Dickson sat down in a booth at Hogan's Diner in Orangeburg and ordered coffee. Her hair hung in a long ponytail down her back. She wore immaculate white oxfords, tongues turned out, and carried a small black purse. Her hands shook.
"It's from the medication," she explained. "I'm sorry."
Sometimes she was perfectly lucid. Sometimes her speech bounced off reality in a way that was only vaguely recognizable. Sometimes she rambled. 
She said people claiming to be caseworkers and doctors had come to her apartment. "You begin to feel like you're getting booby-trapped into something," she said. "It's two people, then it's a whole building full of people for just one woman. I just look at the whole thing, when the door came toward me inside, I knew they weren't playing games. All I had on was one outfit. I took my bag."
After the eviction, Ms. Dickson walked. She walked through the police cars and ambulances and ended up at a hotel near Madison Square Garden. When the hotel got "money hungry," she bought a suitcase with wheels, boarded a northbound bus, and headed to Canada. Then, for two weeks, she stayed with her sister in Rochester. "We both get sick and tired of each other," she said. "We love each other, but enough's enough."
Ms. Dickson came back to Manhattan. She came back to trouble.
"I was broke," she said. "I needed money. The bank simply said, 'No cash available.' "
She learned to sleep on benches.
"Sometimes I would open my eyes and see someone who looked like they just walked by, and I'd find a couple dollar bills stuck to my suitcase," she said. "I like Brooklyn Heights. There are good people there. They help you. If I had a choice to live anywhere, I'd live in Brooklyn Heights."
Of the night she ran into Sherry Dickson at Happy Days and learned that she had been looking for her, Ms. Dickson said: "All I could say was: 'Sherry, you know very well where I am. Everybody knows.' "
Gradually, she settled into the landscape. "You sleep outside," she said. "You don't think too much about it. You're a little bit dazed sometimes. You sit someplace. You feed the birds. You pay more attention to the birds than to human beings. At least I do."
When the police picked her up near City Hall Park, she demanded to know the charges against her. "By the way," she added, "how do I know you're a cop?
"They took the ambulance with me to Bellevue Hospital, and before I could do anything or say anything, I was called a schizo," she said. "That's bad."
At the hospital, they took her shoelaces and her house keys.
She said not everyone who slept outside was crazy. "Schizo," she said. "To call us a name like that. That shouldn't happen."
Late last month, Rockland transferred Ms. Dickson to an adult home in Brooklyn. 
In the conversation before she left the hospital, she said she would take her medication. She said she wanted an apartment of her own near a pharmacy. She said she looked forward to wearing the four-inch black heels she had bought with her sister in Rochester. She said her Elvis collection better be back at 857 Union Street.
She said she wanted her freedom back.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ONE WOMAN'S JOURNEY -- Karin Dickson, above and top, a longtime resident of Park Slope, Brooklyn, spent 54 weeks on the street. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 1); FAMILY SCRAPBOOK -- Karin Dickson's daughters, Sherry, above, and Sandra center, and, top, their mother in the early 1970's, when she was in her early 30's. "My mother would never in a million years have wanted to be homeless," Sandra Dickson said. (John W. Wheeler for The New York Times); (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times); A PLEA TO THE NEIGHBORS -- After Karin Dickson disappeared, her daughters posted handwritten fliers, left, in store windows in brownstone Brooklyn. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVICTION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHARMACISTS (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (75%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); POLICE FORCES (68%); MARRIAGE (68%) HOMELESS PERSONS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS 

PERSON: DICKSON, KARIN; KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (76%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



228 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3152 words

HEADLINE: Together at Last: Cutting Pollution And Making Money 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
NOTICE the common thread running through these three tales?
 *The Starbucks Corporation, responding to concerns that growing coffee caused rain-forest carnage, spends some $200,000 to help Mexican farmers improve the quality of beans grown under a forest canopy. "We weren't sure they'd ever grow beans we would sell," said Orin C. Smith, the company's chief executive. In fact, the premium-priced coffee produced by the Mexicans turns out to be so tasty, and is selling so well in the United States, that Starbucks is introducing it overseas and to institutional customers. It has increased its order for Mexican shade-grown beans tenfold since the program began in late 1998 and is negotiating with shade-growers in four other countries. "We risked this for the environmental benefits, but it now has potential to be a really profitable product," Mr. Smith said. 
 *At the fervent request of local environmentalists, the Chesapeake, Va., plant of Nova Chemicals sets aside 11.5 of its 60 acres for a habitat that Van White, the plant's environmental affairs manager, calls a "bed and breakfast" for migratory birds and other wildlife. The one-time cost is about $8,000 to plant 24 species of trees and fruit-bearing shrubs. The unanticipated yearly savings is $16,000. "Turns out, that's what we'd been paying to mow those 11.5 acres," Mr. White said. 
*Managers of the Los Angeles International Airport, which dumps 19,000 tons of food waste each year, figured that California regulators would soon restrict the practice. So they set up a pilot program with the sewage and utility plants next door. First, the airport grinds up the food scraps. Then the sewage plant puts them through its huge digesters and sends the resulting methane gas back to the utility. "It looks like we'll not only meet future regulations, but we'll save $12 a ton in disposal and get $18 a ton for the energy," said Louise Riggen, the airport's recycling coordinator. The yield may be even better: the digesters will also turn out reusable water, a precious commodity in California, and a nutrient-rich sludge that can be sold as fertilizer.
The pattern? All these projects were undertaken with only environmental goals in mind, yet they also yielded unexpected savings or revenue streams.
"The notion that environment is just an expensive cost is way out of date," said Glenn T. Prickett, executive director of the Center for Environmental Leadership in Business, a unit of Conservation International created with money from the Ford Motor Company. Mr. Prickett's group worked with Starbucks on the shade-grown coffee project; has helped the Mobil Corporation protect a rain forest while it explored for oil in Peru; and aided Asarco, a mining company, in safeguarding wetlands when it searched for gold in French Guiana.
By now, some 30 years after the environmental movement took hold, many companies are giving second lives to raw materials, fuels and other products that previously went to landfills. Water from their process cooling systems is being used to heat and cool their plants. Fly ash and other pollutants scrubbed from the air often show up in concrete and highway asphalt. Once-disposable cameras are being refurbished for reuse. And makers of deodorants, toothpastes and cold medicines have all but dispensed with cardboard shells for tubes and bottles, reducing paper waste -- and package costs.
But those kinds of projects represent the easy pickings of environmentalism. Today, companies have to do much more. They are often required by law to pull gases from air and materials from water and trash that they never had dreamed would be on any list of environmental problems.
The landfills that have been accepting the nonrecycled wastes, meanwhile, are growing saturated, while dumps where hazardous substances were supposed to find a safe resting place are springing leaks. Gases that were once thought innocuous, like carbon dioxide, are among the greenhouse gases that may contribute to global warming, while others, like the so-called volatile organic compounds found in solvent and paint fumes, have been implicated in depleting the ozone layer.
Societal demands have changed, too. Previously, communities were satisfied when companies simply complied with regulations. Today, they want them to set aside wilderness areas, clean up rivers that they never had a hand in soiling and be far more squeaky-clean than the government insists. And companies are loath to fight back.
"When you reduce waste and emissions, a community is a lot more willing to issue permits for other operations down the road," said Samuel L. Smolik, vice president for global environment, health and safety at the Dow Chemical Company in Midland, Mich.
Most companies assume that they are already using the least expensive materials and most cost-effective processes. They also assume that solving the latest crop of environmental headaches will cost them plenty. So discovering that the answers to environmental demands can shift to the profit side of the ledger is a big financial surprise.
"When they substitute chemicals or processes, they often have to put in expensive equipment, retrain workers, do lots of costly things," said Gaytha A. Langlois, professor of ecology at Bryant College in Smithfield, R.I. "But then they find that the new equipment or process really is more efficient and that there are all kinds of savings to be had." 
EXAMPLES abound. Everyone talks about dreaded holes in the ozone layer -- but the fear is even greater for plant managers who find that some of the chemicals with jaw-breaking names that they have used for years may be making those holes wider. Until last year, the Roanoke, Va., factory of ITT Industries, a diversified manufacturer, used an inert, nontoxic compressed gas called sulfur hexafluoride to test tubes used in the night-vision devices it makes for the military. Then Usha Wright, ITT's director for environment, safety and health, put sulfur hexafluoride on a list of ozone-depleting gases that she insisted the plants eliminate.
Its hand forced, the Roanoke plant started trying other gases instead. It settled on nitrogen, which worked as well, did not deplete ozone and cost $500,000 a year less to buy and to handle. Ms. Wright said many other ITT plants had received similarly pleasant surprises from other environmentally inspired substitutions.
"We haven't tallied up the numbers, because we did not include cost reductions as a goal," she said. "But it looks like a lot of plants are going to realize overall savings."
FOR some companies, the benefits come not only in savings but also in sales. You know those thin slabs of wallboard that are increasingly used instead of plaster in building new homes? There is a chance that they started out as scrubber waste.
A few years ago, the Tennessee Valley Authority, the largest public power utility, switched to new air pollution control equipment that, although much more expensive, yielded powdery residues instead of the gooey ones produced by its old equipment. The T.V.A.'s aim was to end up with a substance that would be easier for its on-site landfill to handle.
The results have been much better than that. The utility now sells the 1.2 million tons of the powder, calcium sulfate, that it generates annually to a company called Synthetic Materials, which turns it into gypsum, the main ingredient in wallboard. Most of it is bought by Temple-Inland, a wallboard manufacturer that has set up shop at the T.V.A.'s largest plant, in Cumberland City, Tenn. Synthetic Materials sells the rest on the open market. When gypsum supply exceeds demand, the T.V.A. dumps the powder on the landfill; when demand exceeds supply, Synthetic Materials dips into the landfill for more.
Cherie Miller, the T.V.A.'s byproduct specialist -- a title created just 11 months ago -- said the arrangement added $3 million to the T.V.A.'s coffers last year. That is on top of the $5 million or so that the T.V.A. has been gleaning from selling other wastes like fly ash, for use in concrete, and boiler slag, for use in abrasives. "Marketing byproducts has really become a profit center here," Ms. Miller said.
Elsewhere as well. Several other utility plants, including the Palatka, Fla., operations of the Seminole Electric Cooperative and a Shippingport, Pa., plant of FirstEnergy are selling gypsum for wallboard, too.
Sometimes, a little bit of internal sleuthing can turn a company into its best customer for its own waste.
Last year, an alert waste-plant operator at Textron's Bell Helicopter unit in Fort Worth, looking for ways to reduce the amount of messy sludge left over when Bell cleaned up its process water, noticed that the sludge always seemed to be a lot lighter in color than he would have expected.
He guessed -- correctly -- that a lot of magnesium hydroxide, a pure white powder that Bell used for electroplating, was moving through the process unused. So Bell conducted tests and found that it could pump the sludge back into its electroplating process three or four times before it needed to be dumped. Bell saved $100,000 last year just by dumping less sludge and buying less magnesium hydroxide. 
"We wanted to stop landfilling hundreds of tons of sludge, but we wound up solving an internal inefficiency," said Donald L. Legg, Bell's director for environmental and industrial safety.
WITH a variety of forces putting ever more pressure on them to clean up their acts, companies might well hope that their environmental projects yield many more such hidden bounties.
So-called socially conscious investing has been growing in popularity in recent years, as more investors include environmental performance as a factor in picking stocks. And many companies -- Procter & Gamble is a notable example -- use such performance as a criterion in choosing suppliers. Banks are taking potential environmental liabilities into closer account when they decide whether to make loans. Insurers, too, are insisting that companies prove that they are running clean shops before they issue policies covering environmental accidents.
And some customers are pushing their own environmental problems into their suppliers' court. A couple of years ago, customers of the Xerox Corporation started asking the company to help them dispose of excess toner from their Xerox machines. Customers for the most expensive copiers had the influence to make that request more of an order -- a pretty tall order. 
"It was costing us half a million a year just to collect and transport the stuff," said Jack C. Azar, vice president for environment, health and safety. So Xerox's chemists spent a hefty chunk of their research budget to learn to incorporate the toner waste into new toner. The company still has to pay for collection and transportation, but it is saving about $800,000 a year on new toners for expensive machines. This year, Xerox will expand the recycling program to toner waste for less-expensive copiers.
The Internet is also making corporations more sensitive to environmental issues. "Environmental groups have become truly sophisticated in using the Web to move information to millions of people literally overnight, and to attack companies on a global scale," said Carol M. Browner, who headed the Environmental Protection Agency under President Bill Clinton.
For example, Greenpeace wanted the Coca-Cola Company to stop using hydrofluorocarbons, a heat-trapping greenhouse gas, as a refrigerant in Coke machines. During the Olympic Games in Sydney last year, the Australian chapter of Greenpeace put sticker designs on its Web site that showed polar bears on melting ice caps, and encouraged site visitors to download them and plaster them on Coke machines. Many did so -- and sure enough, Coke soon announced it would phase out use of the gas. Coke has always said it planned to do so anyway, "but Greenpeace really gave them an awful time," Ms. Browner recalled.
The switch to a Republican administration in Washington may spur many more such attacks. Many environmentalists worry that their issues now have low priority in the federal government, notwithstanding the E.P.A.'s recent decision to force General Electric to dredge the Hudson River for P.C.B.'s, or polychlorinated biphenyls. Christie Whitman, the E.P.A. administrator, declined to be interviewed.
"The environmental movement was deflated in the 90's because people thought Bill Clinton was an environmental president," said Andrew J. Hoffman, assistant professor of management at the Boston University School of Management, who has written about corporate environmental activity. "It's being ignited again in opposition to George W. Bush."
Alan Metrick, a spokesman for the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that 100,000 more people had joined his group since Mr. Bush was inaugurated.
"Americans feel this government will not protect their air and water, and they are energized to a degree we haven't seen in years," Mr. Metrick said. "We now have more than half a million members, and that means more funds to take on more cases."
But those are not necessarily fighting words. Few executives today dismiss environmentalists as hippie tree-huggers, as they might have during the 1970's. And fewer environmentalists view business executives as the devil incarnate. Companies and environmentalists are now as likely to be partners as adversaries. 
Starbucks gives Conservation International equal credit for the shade-grown coffee project. The Natural Resources Defense Council worked closely with Dow Chemical to reduce pollution at Dow plants in Midland and has offered its services to other companies. (So far, to Mr. Metrick's dismay, there have been no takers.) The Alliance for Environmental Innovation, a unit of the better-known Environmental Defense, helped McDonald's figure out a replacement for its much-criticized polystyrene clamshell packaging in the mid-1990's and more recently helped United Parcel Service develop a reusable overnight mailer.
Advocacy groups have learned to incorporate the corporate focus on profits into their environmental pitches. The Alliance for Environmental Innovation persuaded Federal Express to promise carmakers that it would buy more fuel-efficient, cleaner-driving trucks, even if they cost a little more.
"We realize that the auto companies need committed customers to justify what will probably be a very expensive R & D project," said Gwen Ruta, the director of the alliance.
Many companies are reaping the benefits of environmental projects that they started in the 90's, when regulatory scrutiny seemed more intense, and when the booming economy made potentially costly projects more palatable.
Consider Corning Inc. Its plant in Canton, N.Y., which makes super-pure glass used in manufacturing computer chips, was within the legal limits set by New York State for emissions of hydrochloric acid, but company executives figured that the state would soon tighten the rules. So, in 1999, the plant started making a chlorine-free glass.
The new glass-making chemicals are no panacea -- for example, they freeze at 60 degrees Fahrenheit, in a city where winter temperatures can plunge to 30 below. "Researching it, trucking it in, building new storage bins and handling equipment -- it cost well over $5 million, and frankly we didn't enjoy doing it," said Raymond F. Leinen, manager of Corning's semiconductor materials business.
They are, however, enjoying the results. Glass samples that Corning has been monitoring for more than a year remain free of distortion; the chlorinated glass would have warped slightly by now.
Corning hopes that the improvement will help the company gain market share. "We won't raise the price of the new glass, but this subtle property may well get more semiconductor companies to buy it," Mr. Leinen said.
Sikorsky Aircraft, too, may be getting some new bragging rights from an environmentally induced product change. Last year, Sikorsky, a unit of United Technologies, switched to a new kind of paint for its helicopters, because the old one was sending ozone-depleting fumes up its factory stacks. The change cost a bit in retooling -- but, it turns out, the new paint can be applied with a thinner coating. That means that less paint is used, and that the finished helicopter weighs less -- a fact that Sikorsky is trumpeting to military and commercial customers alike. "Saving even an ounce on a helicopter is a big deal," said Leslie Carothers, vice president for environment, health and safety at United Technologies.
But even as the environmental pressure on companies heats up, the number of surprising benefits from environmental programs may dwindle. That is because more and more companies are installing formal programs to ferret out savings at the outset.
Dow Chemical now routinely applies complex statistical analysis to environmental projects to ensure that its businesses are wresting the maximum economic benefits from meeting the company's anti-pollution goals. Dow has even assigned dollar amounts to intangible benefits like community good will or employee satisfaction, then plugs those numbers into its formulas for evaluating environmental projects.
"Historically, projects were discussed in either the language of economic value or of environmental performance, but we've figured out how to translate from one language to the other," said Mr. Smolik of Dow.
Often, corporate environmental officials are using such translation to persuade plant managers that profit, not environmental benefit, is the primary goal even when it is not. For instance, in March, William Blackburn, vice president for environment, health and safety at Baxter International, the medical products maker in Deerfield, Ill., pulled together a group of purchasing and engineering people to discuss waysto reduce energy use. They are now exploring several.
"My goal was to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide, the only greenhouse gas we emit," he said. But he recognized that managers with bottom-line responsibilities would be more attracted to cheaper energy bills. "Environment is heart and economics is head, and to motivate everyone, you need to combine the two."
INDEED, Mr. Blackburn has used that psychology to persuade profit-oriented plant managers to revisit environmental problems that they had thought were solved. To incinerate blood plasma waste at a plant in Austria, Baxter had been spending $70,000 a year -- not a particularly painful hit to the bottom line. Still, at Mr. Blackburn's urging, the plant "asked some local professors to look at this stuff and get creative." The professors figured out how to turn the waste into fuel and fertilizer, which the university now uses. The project cost Baxter $350,000, but it cut disposal costs to zero.
"There's a real interplay between environmental and financial motives," Mr. Blackburn said, "and we're pushing that idea across the entire company."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker in Mexico checks coffee beans that are grown in shade, saving trees that would normally be cut. (Sterling Zumbrunn/Conservation International); Nova Chemicals set aside 11.5 acres for wildlife in Chesapeake, Va. The company now saves $16,000 a year by not having to mow the area. (David Hollingsworth for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Conservation International's coffee farms, above, in southern Mexico. Starbucks has been increasing orders for Mexican shade-grown beans. (Sterling Zumbrunn/Conservation International); This downloadable poster, created by Adbusters and Greenpeace Australia, put pressure on Coke to stop using hydrofluorocarbons.; "The notion that environment is just an expensive cost is way out of date," said Glenn T. Prickett. His group has helped companies save rain forests and wetlands. (Conservation International); Food waste from a catering company at Los Angeles International Airport is recycled into gas for energy. (Kim Kulish/Saba for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (90%); COFFEE FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RAIN FORESTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WATER POLLUTION (87%); AIRPORTS (86%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (86%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (77%); FERTILIZERS (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); METHANE (68%); WETLANDS (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); BIRDS (67%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (62%) ENVIRONMENT; LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT 

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); MOBIL CORP (60%); NOVA CHEMICALS CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (59%) STARBUCKS CORP; NOVA CHEMICALS CORP; CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP IN BUSINESS 

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%) SIC5499 MISC. FOOD STORES; 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H; PRICKETT, GLENN T 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



229 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes the Economy Needs a Setback 

BYLINE:  By James Grant; James Grant is the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer.

 BODY:
The weak economy and the multi-trillion-dollar drop in the value of stocks have raised a rash of recrimination. Never a people to suffer the loss of money in silence, Americans are demanding to know what happened to them. The truth is simple: There was a boom.
 A boom is a phase of accelerated prosperity. For ignition, it requires easy money. For inspiration, it draws on new technology. A decade ago, farsighted investors saw a glorious future for the personal computer in the context of the more peaceful world after the cold war. Stock prices began to rise -- and rose and rose. The cost of financing new investment fell correspondingly, until by about the middle of the decade the money became too cheap to pass up. Business investment soared, employment rose, reported profits climbed. 
 Booms begin in reality and rise to fantasy. Stock investors seemed to forget that more capital spending means more competition, not less; that more competition implies lower profit margins, not higher ones; and that lower profit margins do not point to rising stock prices. It seemed to slip their minds that high-technology companies work ceaselessly to make their own products obsolete, not just those of their competitors -- that they are inherently self-destructive.
At the 2000 peak of the titanic bull market, as shares in companies with no visible means of support commanded high prices, the value of all stocks as a percentage of the American gross domestic product reached 183 percent, more than twice the level before the crash in 1929. Were investors out of their minds? Wall Street analysts were happy to reassure them on this point: No, they were the privileged financiers of the new economy. Digital communications were like the wheel or gunpowder or the internal combustion engine, only better. The Internet would revolutionize the conveyance of human thought. To quibble about the valuation of companies as potentially transforming as any listed on the Nasdaq stock market was seen almost as an act of ingratitude. The same went for questioning the integrity of the companies' reports of lush profits.
In markets all things are cyclical, even the idea that markets are not cyclical. The notion that the millennial economy was in some way "new" was an early portent of confusion. Since the dawn of the industrial age, technology has been lightening the burden of work and driving the pace of economic change. In 1850, as the telegraph was beginning to anticipate the Internet, about 65 percent of the American labor force worked on farms. In 2000, only 2.4 percent did. The prolonged migration of hands and minds from the field to the factory, office and classroom is all productivity growth -- the same phenomenon the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board rhapsodizes over. It's true, just as Alan Greenspan says, that technological progress is the bulwark of the modern economy. Then again, it has been true for most of the past 200 years.
In 1932 an eminent German analyst of business cycles, Wilhelm Ropke, looked back from amid the debris of the Depression. Citing a series of inventions and innovations -- railroads, steelmaking, electricity, chemical production, the automobile -- he wrote: "The jumpy increases in investment characterizing every boom are usually connected with some technological advance. . . . Our economic system reacts to the stimulus . . . with the prompt and complete mobilization of all its inner forces in order to carry it out everywhere in the shortest possible time. But this acceleration and concentration has evidently to be bought at the expense of a disturbance of equilibrium which is slowly overcome in time of depression."
Ropke wrote before the 1946 Employment Act, which directed the United States government to cut recessions short -- using tax breaks, for example, or cuts in interest rates -- even if these actions stymie a salutary process of economic adjustment. No one doubts the humanity of this law. Yet equally, no one can doubt the inhumanity of a decade-long string of palliatives in Japan, intended to insulate the Japanese people from the consequences of their bubble economy of the 1980's. Rather than suppressing the bust, the government has only managed to prolong it, for a decade and counting.
Booms not only precede busts; they also cause them. When capital is so cheap that it might as well be free, entrepreneurs make marginal investments. They build and hire expecting the good times to continue to roll. Optimistic bankers and steadily rising stock prices shield new businesses from having to show profits any sooner than "eventually." Then, when the stars change alignment and investors decide to withhold new financing, many companies are cash-poor and must retrench or shut down. It is the work of a bear market to reduce the prices of the white elephants until they are cheap enough to interest a new class of buyers.
The boom-and-bust pattern has characterized the United States economy since before the railroads. Growth has been two steps forward and one step back, cycle by cycle. Headlong building has been followed by necessary tearing down, which has been followed by another lusty round of building. Observing this sequence from across the seas, foreigners just shake their heads.
Less and less, however, are we bold and irrepressible Americans willing to suffer the tearing-down phase of the cycle. After all, it has seemed increasingly unnecessary. With a rising incidence of federal intervention in financial markets, expansions have become longer and contractions shorter. And year in and year out, the United States is allowed to consume more of the world's goods than it produces (the difference being approximately defined as the trade deficit, running in excess of $400 billion a year).
We have listened respectfully as our financial elder statesmen have speculated on the likelihood that digital technology has permanently reduced the level of uncertainty in our commercial life -- never mind that last year the information technology industries had no inkling that the demand for their products was beginning to undergo a very old-fashioned collapse.
Even moderate expansions produce their share of misconceived investments, and the 90's boom, the gaudiest on record, was no exception. In the upswing, faith in the American financial leaders bordered on idolatry. Now there is disillusionment. Investors are right to resent Wall Street for its conflicts of interest and to upbraid Alan Greenspan for his wide-eyed embrace of the so-called productivity miracle. But the underlying source of recurring cycles in any economy is the average human being.
The financial historian Max Winkler concluded his tale of the fantastic career of the swindler-financier Ivar Kreuger, the "Swedish match king," with the ancient epigram "Mundus vult decipi; ergo decipiatur": The world wants to be deceived; let it therefore be deceived. The Romans might have added, for financial context, that the world is most credulous during bull markets. Prosperity makes it gullible.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (J. D. King) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); COLD WAR (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) GRANT, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



230 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: The World: Regulating Mexican Migration; 
In a World at Flood Tide, an Effort to Lift the Gate a Bit

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
WHAT do Douglas, Ariz., and New Delhi, India, have in common? Both are stations on the road for millions of people who want to come to the United States by any means possible. And that road leads through Mexico.
 The fall of the Berlin Wall did not just end the cold war. By opening up new routes to the world's centers of capital, it set off a great migration not seen since the calamitous 1940's. Albania's collapse alone sent a diaspora of two million refugees to the United States, Canada and Europe. 
 Now tens of millions of people cross borders illegally every year. Some flee poverty, some oppression. Some are simply looking for a job. Since they see Mexico's border as the most open path to the United States, millions have tried to cross it. 
This is the world in which the leaders of the United States and Mexico met last week to try to start rewriting their mutual rules of the road for migration. The route across their border was well traveled long before anyone dreamed of globalization and its discontents. But it has been made more labyrinthine by the political and economic forces at play in the new century.
For decades, the economic gap between the two nations has driven millions of Mexicans to work for minimum wages or less in the United States. Americans reaped the rewards of that labor, so many ignored illegal immigration.
But as the American economy grew, more Mexicans migrated, legally and illegally. And in the 1990's, international smugglers increasingly used Mexico as the next-to-last stop in round-the-world routes to the United States. One recently broken ring ran migrants from India to Russia to Cuba to Ecuador to Mexico and up to the border.
Today, the issue is not how to stop migration, but how to control it in a way that best benefits the United States.
In Washington last week, President Vicente Fox of Mexico aggressively pushed for faster action on the issue than seems politically prudent for President Bush, who faces opposition within his own party.
Still, both leaders recognize that the case of Mexicans in the United States is unique. The border is the longest in the world between a rich nation and a relatively poor one. Many Mexicans who cross it are not emigrants who come to stay, but economic migrants, coming north to work for a while, going home, returning for the harvest. As Woody Guthrie sang of those workers in the past century, they come with the dust and they go with the wind. Nowadays, they still gather the crops, but they also make beds in Holiday Inns and fry onions in restaurants and pour concrete for condominiums and cultivate the gardens of the rich.
"You have industries in the United States saying, 'Look, we really depend on the use of these people we used to call illegal immigrants,' " said the United States ambassador to Mexico, Jeffrey Davidow. "We cannot really run the hotel industry in Las Vegas without them. Agriculture in California would be a lost cause if it weren't for them."
The 2000 census made this vivid: About 30.5 million people in the United States today were born abroad. About 8.8 million were born in Mexico, a 10-fold increase since 1970. Demographers say as many as half of these Mexicans may be undocumented; more than one million Mexican migrants are detained and deported annually.
No one contends that the United States should not police its borders; in fact, it guards them with increasing intensity. But few can deny that millions of Mexican migrants, legal and illegal, have been a spark plug in the American economic engine.
President Fox says their "hard work is a daily contribution to the prosperity" of the United States, and he calls them heroes for sending billions of dollars back home to their families in Mexico. The Federal Reserve Board chairman, Alan Greenspan, whose reputation does not rest on cheap sentiment, has said that migrant labor allowed America's economy to grow faster, with less inflation, in the 1990's.
So it is not only the free movement of goods and capital that makes an economy sing; maybe it is the free movement of labor, too. Migration's tides "respond to deep underlying economic incentives, are all but impossible to stop, and must instead be regulated," President Fox told the United States Congress. This is not merely a question of law enforcement, but that is where the answer begins as Mexico and the United States confront migration anew.
"Immigration is not a problem that is going to be 'solved' simply by cops," said Joseph R. Greene, who is in charge of global antismuggling investigations at the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service. But under the Fox government, he said, "we have seen a dramatic increase" in collaboration between the United States and Mexico against the smuggling of huddled masses from around the world.
Mexico, acting on American intelligence, is breaking up international rings that have shipped human contraband through byzantine routes from China, India, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq and at least 35 other nations to the border, often bribing Mexican officials for safe passage. Mexico now must cope with terrified detainees from Baghdad. But it cannot strike a grand bargain with the United States for its own migrants unless it secures its own borders. To that end, say American immigration officials, Mexico is cooperating with them as never before.
Success against international smugglers may allow both nations to shift their spotlight from border crossing to what they call border safety, a matter of life and death. Mexican migrants are dying in the desert for a chance at a job. They have been dying at the rate of roughly one a day, often after being abandoned by smugglers. They die because they are trying to cross at more and more remote places, since the United States has sought to seal the safer routes.
The Americans can "chase them like rustlers, like outlaws, like thieves," as Mr. Guthrie wrote long ago in his song about Mexican migrants, "Deportees." But they cannot stop them from coming. Right now, they have two bad choices: to loosen up on the less remote regions or to try to barricade the desert. Those tactics do not stop drug smugglers and probably will not stop migrants. The Mexicans have struggled with this issue, too. The state of Baja California is setting up "no-go zones" in the desert to try to save lives.
Last spring, a member of Mr. Fox's government wanted to issue survival kits to migrants leaving for the border. That set off a fracas within the Fox cabinet, and the kits -- instantly labeled "Happy Meals" by the Mexico City press -- were never issued.
If salt pills and rubber bullets are not the answer, would a blizzard of green cards help? The problem probably will not be resolved simply by issuing more Mexicans temporary and permanent work visas (which is likely), or granting legal status to the three or four million illegally in the United States (which is not).
President Fox won a standing ovation on Capitol Hill last week, but little else of immediate significance: no draft treaties, no new laws, only an increased sense that something should be done. But what? The answer may lie buried in the vague joint statement Presidents Bush and Fox issued Thursday night. It spoke of spending the next six months trying to "address some of the root causes of migration," trying to "spur private sector growth throughout Mexico," trying to "boost the social and economic well-being" of Mexicans "in regions where economic growth has lagged."
That political language can be boiled down to a nugget: The answer is to increase the legal flow of Mexican labor to the United States -- and the flow of American capital to Mexico. That could begin to close the great gap in wealth between the two nations. And that will take decades. 
ILLEGAL immigration will begin to end "if we narrow this gap on development," Mr. Fox said in a PBS "NewsHour" interview. "Twenty, 30 years from now, we should be able to do that."
Mexico may never be the southern half of the United States of North America. The border may not crumble like the Berlin Wall. But in time it may look more like a golden door. "The bottom line is the fences are going to go down between these two countries," said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat, after listening to Mr. Fox's speech. "And it's in the interests of both countries and both peoples that we make it work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the border at Mexicali, Mexico, a man holds a mirror to check for the Border Patrol before trying to cross into the United States. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); FOREIGN LABOR (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; FOREIGN LABOR 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (88%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); GERMANY (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); ALBANIA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



231 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Liberties; 
I Can't Take It Anymore

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
If you thought it would be hard for TV to top the Summer of the Insatiable Sharks, Ravenous Bears, Killer Bees and Stampeding Lizzie Grubman, you were wrong.
 Two networks are racing to air prime-time specials this fall featuring mediums interviewing dead celebrities. 
 As Lisa de Moraes reported in The Washington Post, NBC and ABC are both doing such shows for fall sweeps. "The November of the Chatting Dead," she dryly calls it. 
In a culture so besotted with celebrity, we were bound to run out of upright luminaries to interview. I may tune in if the mediums manage to conjure up the vengeful spirits of Natalie Wood or Nicole Simpson. But the celebrity specter I'd really like to hear from is Paddy Chayefsky, the dazzling satirist who wrote the eerily prescient 1976 movie "Network."
Mr. Chayefsky's ominous predictions from the Ford era about the damage to American democracy from the Pac-Man game of networks gobbled by companies gobbled by other companies gobbled by consortiums gobbled by foreign investors have come true.
W. continued to give away the store to Big Business last week, legally unleashing Microsoft and signaling media conglomerates that they can conglomerate away -- accelerating the centralization of American power into the hands of a very few very rich people.
W. never met a merger he didn't like, except stems and cells. His White House has become a holding company for Big Money and the Media Oligarchy -- Murdoch, Gates, Case, Eisner, Redstone.
Mr. Gates is getting back his monopoly over the desktop computer and his reign as the Czar of Broadband. And soon we'll have thousands of channels but they'll all be controlled by the same few moguls. 
At least before we had a diversity of trash in our media. Now we're zooming toward a collective mentality, severely limiting the voices that may be heard and muting opposing views. A quarter of American culture will be filtered through Murdoch's sensibility, a quarter through AOL Time Warner, a quarter through Mickey Mouse, a quarter through Viacom.
W., afraid he will be blamed, as Dad was, for the cratering economy, has been going out the past few days echoing Poppy's "Message: I Care."
After the unemployment numbers rose sharply to 4.9 percent on Friday, the president rushed out of the Oval Office to commiserate: "Any American out of work is too many Americans out of work." 
But the fanfare for the common man rings hollow, given that Bush Inc. is refusing to turn over documents to Congress about the secret deliberations of Dick Cheney and energy lobbyists cooking up their drill & spill energy plan and is knocking down regulatory hurdles, further pleasing Big Energy, Big Media, Big Oil, Big Tobacco, Big Telecom and Big Weapons Manufacturers.
A majority of Americans did not elect W. A majority of voters didn't even elect him. A new book about Florida and the Supreme Court decision, featured on this week's Newsweek cover, is titled "The Accidental President." His real constituents are the corporations that gave him $100 million, the biggest political haul in history.
In "Network," the crazed anchor Howard Beale reveals on the news one night that his network has been bought by a corporation and that corporation is being bought by a consortium of banks and insurance companies controlled by the Arabs.
Think of how mad Howard Beale would be today. There are so many examples to choose from: MapQuest, a Web site that provides directions, was swallowed by America Online, which swallowed Time Warner, which owns CNN. General Electric, the company that makes light bulbs and engines on fighter jets, owns NBC. Disney, which owns studios, theme parks and sports teams, owns ABC.
In the movie, the C.E.O. who owns the network explains to Beale that the world is "one vast and ecumenical holding company."
"There is no America," he says. "There is no democracy. There is only I.B.M. and ITT and AT&T and DuPont, Dow, Union Carbide and Exxon. Those are the nations of the world today. The world is a business, Mr. Beale!"
And just as Beale railed: "There is not a single law on the books to stop them!"
How totally sane the mad prophet turned out to be. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BROADBAND (72%); LOBBYING (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: AOL INC (63%); BUSH INC (61%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); VIACOM INC (52%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (63%); WPO (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (54%) CHAYEFSKY, PADDY (1923-81); DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



232 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Illinois Towns Are Wary as Airport Looks to Grow 

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN 

DATELINE: PEOTONE, Ill., Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Here at the Mayberry Junction, a pink wood-frame restaurant at the center of town, a picture of television's Aunt Bee hangs on the wall alongside Sheriff Andy Taylor and Opie. 
 Less than 50 miles south of Chicago, in a land of firefly-lighted cornfields and twinkling country nights, there is no hubbub. And that is just the way most people here, who see their town of 3,245 as a Mayberry of sorts, like it. 
 "It's a sleepy community," said Roger Bunte, 51, who lives and works on a farm in Peotone (pronounced PEA-uh-tone) that his grandfather staked nearly a century ago. 
But Mr. Bunte's farm would become a runway under a plan for a new airport that Illinois officials see as an economic boon to the area and a cure for flight delays and congestion at O'Hare International Airport in suburban Chicago. 
"Anybody that thinks that it's going to help them economically, they'd be a fool," Mr. Bunte said. "There's going to be nothing but Wal-Marts, Kmarts, big business and hotels and stuff. I suppose that's the way it is."
Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago has his own answer to the region's airport problems, though. He has proposed expanding O'Hare by adding a 7,500-foot runway and shifting three runways, so the airport's 930,000 flights annually could grow to 1.6 million. His plan, supported by the major airlines that use O'Hare as a hub and have no interest in diverting any flights from it, would secure the airport's economic benefits for the city. 
But under Mr. Daley's plan, O'Hare would reach farther into the western suburbs of Bensenville and Des Plaines, destroying more than 500 homes and scores of businesses and further straining limits of tolerance on airport noise and pollution.
For 33 of her 60 years, Olga Trevino has lived in Bensenville, a blue-collar town of 18,000 peppered with factories, tree-lined streets and single-family homes. Her house would be destroyed under the O'Hare expansion.
"Our house is paid off, so whatever we get for it, we're not going to be able to go and buy another house at the same price," Mrs. Trevino, said sitting in her backyard recently during a garage sale. "Look at the house payments nowadays, one thousand, twelve hundred. That's a lot for people our age."
In this tale of two cities and one big-city airport bursting at its seams, many residents say they hear the call for progress but do not want it to come at their expense.
Discussion of a third airport and O'Hare expansion has gone on here for many years. Mr. Daley, a Democrat, and Gov. George R. Ryan, a Republican, are at odds over which plan is best. So with the national impact of delays and congestion at O'Hare begging for resolution, members of Congress moved to help solve the problem and urged the Chicago mayor to submit a plan for expansion to Mr. Ryan by July 1. He did, and the ball is now in Mr. Ryan's court. Dennis Culloton, a spokesman for the Illinois governor, said Mr. Ryan would probably unveil a counterproposal this month. 
The governor's office has final approval over adding runways at O'Hare. For the plan he favors -- building a 12-gate, one-runway airport in Peotone for about $500 million within five years -- Mr. Ryan needs federal approval. The two plans have been stalled by the power struggle.
The need for relief at O'Hare is clear. The airport was ranked third-worst for delays, after La Guardia in New York and Newark International Airport in New Jersey. Critics say O'Hare is outdated and cramped, sitting on about 7,000 acres compared with the proposed spread of nearly 24,000 acres at Peotone.
Support for the plan has split along regional and party lines with Governor Ryan and Republicans downstate backing the Peotone plan. But that proposal has made for some strange bedfellows.
Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., a Democrat, has found his interests, in this case, to parallel those of Republicans. His district includes the city's South Side and south suburbs, and he has said the Peotone airport would be a source of jobs for his constituents.
"There's an entire economy that's associated with an airport that doesn't exist on the South Side," Mr. Jackson said. "It's not just about landing planes. It's about everything that comes with landing planes."
Mr. Jackson even said in a telephone interview this week that he would cite states' rights in a federal lawsuit to challenge the constitutionality of a bill proposed by Representative William O. Lipinski, a Chicago Democrat, that would strip from Mr. Ryan and other governors the power to veto airport expansion.
John Harris, Chicago's first deputy commissioner of aviation, said the mayor did not oppose the Peotone airport, which would be the city's third after O'Hare and Midway, but saw expanding O'Hare as the best solution, even though critics say it would kill any hope for a third major airport.
"We have always said we have no objection to the state or anyone else undertaking the development of an airport, providing it is at no expense to Chicago's existing airports," Mr. Harris said. "By reconfiguring the runways to a more modern parallel layout, we can meet the demand of the airlines and the traveling public that want to travel through O'Hare."
Recently, Mr. Ryan concluded a series of public hearings on the O'Hare expansion, in which many residents who live near O'Hare as well as many Peotone residents, said they were against the two plans. Still, people here seem resigned. 
On a sunny day in Bensenville recently, Vladimir Kravchuk poured concrete near his driveway. Mr. Kravchuk, who said he came to the United States from Ukraine 10 years ago and whose house would be demolished to make room for O'Hare, does not necessarily want to move. But he sees fighting the proposed airport expansion as a losing cause.
"What I can say?" Mr. Kravchuk said. "I don't see this as a big issue. Government here in the U.S. is so powerful. It's all about progress." 
Miles away, at the Mayberry Junction in Peotone, the restaurant's owner, Arlene Kiousis, favors a new airport, which she says will mean more business. 
"I go up to my son's house, and he lives between Midway and O'Hare, and so you watch the airplanes and you go in the house," Ms. Kiousis said. "You get accustomed to it. No worse than these trains, the trains with their whistles all hours of the night. You'll get used to it."
Not far away, standing outside his white wood-frame farmhouse looking over his soybean fields for as far as the eye could see, Mr. Bunte was not so sure.

GRAPHIC: Photos: St. Johannes Cemetery at the end of a runway at O'Hare International Airport in suburban Chicago would be moved under an expansion plan.; Roger Bunte, top right, with John Tatcher in Peotone, which is a quiet town, its downtown shown above, that residents fear will change if an airport is built. Mr. Bunte will lose his farm if the plan goes through. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) Map of Illinois highlighting Peotone: Peotone, Ill., 50 miles south of Chicago, is a proposed airport site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); AIRLINES (73%); SUBURBS (72%); HOME PRICES (62%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; O'HARE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (CHICAGO); AIRPORTS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) 

PERSON: DALEY, RICHARD M (MAYOR); RYAN, GEORGE (GOV); BUNTE, ROGER; FOUNTAIN, JOHN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%) ILLINOIS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) PEOTONE (ILL); CHICAGO (ILL); ILLINOIS; BENSENVILLE (ILL); DES PLAINES (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



233 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: As House Prepares Farm Bill, Questions of Who Needs Help, and How Much 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
When the House takes up a $171 billion farm bill next week, lawmakers will be debating two main questions: whether the program is affordable and whom its subsidies will mainly help.
 The bill's sponsors call it essential and urgently needed, especially by family farmers in distress. 
 "There are countless numbers of farmers who say this is the only way they can survive," said Representative Larry Combest, the Texas Republican who chairs the Agriculture Committee and sponsors the bill. 
But others say that a 10-year program of farm aid will only drain the evaporating budget surplus and that the payments are not helping the neediest farmers. Instead, they say, the farm subsidy program rewards large farmers and corporations, who receive most of the money. 
Of this country's two million farmers, fewer than one-fourth, or 482,206, received 84 percent of federal subsidy payments. That is $60.2 billion out of the total of $71.5 billion from 1996 through 2000, according to data compiled by the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit organization supporting agricultural conservation. The group's analysis is based on Agriculture Department records.
Because the subsidies are based on how much land farmers own or on the size of the harvest, the payments inevitably favor the biggest farms. The average payment for the top 1 percent of recipients was $558,698 over five years; the average for the bottom 80 percent receiving subsidies was $5,830, according to the environmental group's analysis.
The new House farm bill not only continues these payments but adds new ones, such as a $3.5 billion peanut subsidy, reversing the Republican position during the last debate over farm policy in 1996.
Back then, Speaker Newt Gingrich vowed to return market forces to agriculture and to wean the industry from what he called "East German socialist" farm programs. 
That effort failed as grain prices dropped in the expanding global marketplace and producers persuaded Congress to provide "emergency" payments. The payments quadrupled, to $32.2 billion last year from $7.3 billion in 1995. 
Now, in an effort to redirect some of that money to smaller farmers, a group of House Democrats and moderate Republicans is offering an alternate ammendment to shift $20 billion of subsidy payments to conservation programs. That would spread a total of $55 billion for environment and conservation programs to more farmers in more states.
"So much resources go to so few producers in so few states that there are family farmers and entire regions that are shut out right now," said Representative Ron Kind, the Wisconsin Democrat who is sponsoring the amendment with two Republicans, Representatives Sherwood Boehlert of New York and Wayne T. Gilchrest of Maryland.
Susan Frazier, who raises soybeans and corn on her farm in Fairmont, Neb., said she would welcome a new system. "The last bill allowed the bigger farmers to capture more of the federal assistance and gave them the economic power to grow," she said. "They have the money to outbid us all, buying up land when it's available and renting land at rates we can't afford."
As in most big farm states, Nebraska's largest growers -- the top 20 percent -- received nearly 75 percent of the subsidies over the five years ending in 2000. The top 1 percent of the recipients received an average payment of $486,115 while the bottom 80 percent received $14,515 on average, the environmental group's data showed.
In a poll this year, the University of Nebraska found widespread discontent about the disparity in subsidies. The majority of rural Nebraskans surveyed, those who work on and off farms, favored keeping farm payments but limiting them to prevent larger farmers from pushing out the smaller family farmers.
"The biggest surprise was that 73 percent of rural Nebraskans, including farmers, believed there should be real limits put on those subsidies," said John C. Allen, a sociology professor who conducted the survey this year for the university's institute of agriculture and natural resources.
Nebraska is not alone. Over the summer several local newspapers printed the names of the biggest subsidy recipients in their states and lawmakers heard loud complaints about the size of the subsidies received by the biggest farmers.
Created more than 70 years ago to keep farmers afloat during the Dust Bowl days, the subsidies are direct cash payments to farmers who grow a handful of basic row crops such as wheat, rice, corn and cotton. 
Because subsidies are not considered welfare, farmers never have to prove they need the money. 
With the dwindling budget surplus in doubt, Democrats in the Senate and the House, and a few Republicans, are questioning whether there is enough money to pay for any farm bill and say next week's debate is premature.
Representative Charles W. Stenholm of Texas, the ranking Democrat on the Agriculture Commmittee, has declared the bill dead for lack of money though he is a cosponsor. Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who chairs the Senate Budget Committee, worries that the House will try to "shoehorn" the measure through before other big spending bills are passed.
"This a race to the money, to enact the farm legislation before other bills have invaded the Medicare trust fund," Mr. Conrad said.
The House Republican leaders disagree. Representative Jim Nussle, the Iowa Republican who chairs the Budget Committee, said there was more than enough money to proceed with the legislation. And the Republican leadership has scheduled the bill for debate next week. 
But Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa and Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the senior Democrat and Republican on the Agriculture Committee, respectively, are drafting a farm policy intended to place greater emphasis on conservation and be more generous to smaller farmers.
The administration has not taken a position in these debates.
Any effort to change farmers' subsidies will face opposition from most of the farm lobby and agribusinesses. With subsidy payments at a record high, nearly half of the net farm income in the United States comes from federal subsidies, according to government figures.
The National Corn Growers Association has argued that payment limits on some programs should be raised to $150,000 from $75,000 because corn prices are so low.
Tom Buis, vice president of the National Farmers Union, which represents smaller farmers, said grain prices were low because these large farmers were overproducing at the taxpayer's expense.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "DOLING IT OUT -- For Few Farms, Large Share of Aid"From 1996 to 2000, the federal government paid farmers $71.5 billion in subsidies, of which one-third, or $23.6 billion, went to the 2 percent of farms that received an average of more than $50,000 each year. The payments are based on the number of acres planted, and critics of the subsidies say they do too little to help smaller farms. Chart tracks average payment per year, 1996-2000, number of recipients in millions, and total payments, 1996-2000, in billions.(Source: Analysis of Department of Agriculture data by Environmental Working Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PEANUT FARMING (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GRAIN MARKETS (68%) AGRICULTURE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: WAYNE T GILCHREST (58%); RON KIND (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; COMBEST, LARRY (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



234 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Behind South Korea's Political Crisis, an Economy in Disarray 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
An economic crisis lurks behind South Korea's political crisis this week. It is a cautionary lesson to Japan, Singapore and Taiwan, where economies are on a contraction course. 
 South Korea's president, Kim Dae Jung, is respected overseas for his work to ease the military standoff with North Korea. But at home, Mr. Kim, the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize last year, presides over an economy where growth rates are tumbling, layoffs are rising and exports are falling off a cliff. 
 "Everything is turning gloomy," said Park Nei Hei, dean of Sogang University's business school here. "People feel they are being hit hard by the slowing economy; they fear losing their jobs. That is why the public is losing confidence in the president."
South Koreans give Mr. Kim low marks. From popularity ratings around 80 percent in polls at his inauguration in February 1998, his ratings slumped to around 60 percent in December, when he received the prize. This summer, a newspaper poll gave Mr. Kim an approval rating of just 18.6 percent.
Pouncing on this weakness, opposition legislators on Monday pushed through a no-confidence vote against a minister responsible for the peace policy toward North Korea. Mr. Kim's majority coalition collapsed, prompting the cabinet to resign. Fighting off the lame duck label, Mr. Kim, who has 17 more months in office, announced a new cabinet.
Accustomed to double-digit growth, South Koreans see projected growth this year of 3 percent, only a third of last year's level. South Korea is Asia's third largest economy, after Japan and China.
Mr. Kim's defenders say South Korea is doing well, given that only four years ago, during the Asian financial crisis, Koreans were contributing their gold jewelry in a national campaign to pay off the government's debt. Two weeks ago, Mr. Kim, noting that his country has $100 billion in foreign exchange reserves, attended a concert celebrating the repayment of nearly $20 billion to the International Monetary Fund.
South Korea's slowdown, government officials say, is caused by downturns in the economies of its largest trading partners, the United States and Japan. Heavily dependent on exports, South Korea has been battered by six months of falling exports, including a drop of 20 percent for July and August, compared with the same two months last year.
The pain can be seen in Korean society. Last year, major crime in South Korea jumped by more than a third from 1999 levels. Barely a day goes by without announcements of layoffs. 
Many critics say Mr. Kim has faltered in South Korea's biggest economic battle -- to break up the nation's often monopolistic conglomerates, called chaebols, which have hurt the economy with risky practices. Often deeply indebted to banks they partly own, they have incurred debts that are hazardous for both borrower and lender.
"They were cracking the whip on the chaebols and forcing the chaebols to whittle down their borrowings -- that was a good change," said Hank Morris, a director with IRC Ltd., a business consulting group. "The chaebols now don't have a blank check from the government, from the government-supported banks anymore."
But the crackdown encountered fierce resistance from the companies and business groups. After pouring $95 billion into the banking system to prop up ailing companies, the government backed down from privatizing state companies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); POLITICS (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TRENDS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); VIOLENT CRIME (65%); PEACE PROCESS (53%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); TAIWAN (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



235 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNING FOR CITY HALL: HOUSING; 
Consensus on the Need for More Places to Live, but Different Ideas for Getting Them

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Nearly all of the mayoral candidates have made housing a cornerstone of their campaigns, pledging to increase housing construction either through new streams of city revenue or by easing city regulations to help private developers.
 Their platforms and their promises have all been scrutinized by housing groups, tenant advocacy organizations and the real estate industry, all of whom have been wooing the mayoral rivals for a year. As long ago as last September, advocates sponsored the campaign's first mayoral forum. Ever since, the contenders have been debating housing policies and making it the focus of policy speeches, position papers, Web pages and additional forums. 
 Along the way, a tenants' committee subjected the candidates to a 62-question survey, one nonprofit coalition shuttled them around the boroughs to see model programs and another urged them to embrace a $10 billion plan to build or renovate 185,000 homes and apartments.
The candidates' attention to housing is no accident, given the tight housing supply and the real estate market. And New York's mayor can wield considerable influence over housing policy. The city can promote building by granting subsidies, assembling and rezoning sites and streamlining regulations for developers, which the candidates generally support.
Mayoral agencies also shelter the homeless and enforce code violations to make apartments livable. Mayoral appointees oversee the nation's largest public housing system and also decide rents for one million private apartments. Then there is the issue of rent regulation, where the mayor can play a crucial role in the fights over renewing, revising or eliminating rent controls. Most candidates support the controls, but with varying enthusiasm.
Several of the candidates have said they would use tax revenues from the long-term lease of the World Trade Center as a foundation for financing new housing. Some of these efforts would require approval from the City Council or state and federal officials. And the faltering economy may limit the money available.
Here is a summary of the mayoral candidates' positions on housing.

PETER F. VALLONE -- Mr. Vallone, the City Council speaker, was the first to propose a fund for housing, an idea that his rivals have copied. His initial plan was to use $100 million in World Trade Center and Battery Park City money to leverage $1 billion and build 20,000 dwellings in five years. But now he says the process could be repeated yearly for a decade to create 200,000 dwellings.
Many tenant leaders reject Mr. Vallone as unacceptable because of his ties to the real estate industry and accuse him of using his power as speaker to weaken rent stabilization laws.
Mr. Vallone says he saved rent regulation from abolition by compromising to allow so-called luxury decontrol for vacant apartments renting for $2,000 a month or more and for high-income households.

ALAN G. HEVESI -- Mr. Hevesi, the city comptroller, said he would spend $3.8 billion in five years for 105,000 new or renovated dwellings. The Tenants Political Action Committee, which promotes tenant rights, endorsed him, citing his long housing advocacy as a state legislator, his use of city pension funds to finance 11,000 dwellings, his promises to change the Rent Guidelines Board and his recent role in uniting tenant groups on legislative proposals.

FERNANDO FERRER -- Mr. Ferrer, who often speaks of his youth in a walk-up tenement with sporadic heat, claims the most ambitious plan: building 150,000 dwellings in a decade for $13 billion, using a $1.3 billion revolving fund. The revenues would include Battery Park City profits and new property taxes from the World Trade Center. Mr. Ferrer, a Democrat, points to his 14-year record as Bronx borough president, in which he helped efforts that built nearly 67,000 dwellings. He has won praise from some tenant and housing leaders and, along with Alan G. Hevesi, has promised numerous changes in the Rent Guidelines Board to help tenants.

MARK GREEN -- Mr. Green, the city's public advocate, initially proposed a "summit conference" of experts to plan the building of 50,000 dwellings in five years at an estimated cost of $1 billion. Last week he expanded that goal considerably, to 150,000 dwellings and $5.6 billion in city funds, but gave no details. Unlike the other three Democrats, he opposes using World Trade Center taxes for housing and would reserve it instead for transportation.
He says he favors the current exemption from rent regulation for households with annual incomes of $175,000 or more and wants stronger tenant protections.

HERMAN BADILLO -- Mr. Badillo, a Republican, was a housing commissioner, deputy mayor and state mortgage agency chairman who promoted Upper West Side and South Bronx renewal and the Nehemiah housing program. He supports using World Trade Center revenue for housing.
He says he would stamp out slums by extending homeownership to families with limited incomes and by building two- and three-family homes. Many experts support the ownership concept, but some critics say low-rise buildings do not yield enough apartments to solve the housing shortage.

MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG -- Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, promises to put a deputy mayor and a multiagency "strike force" in charge of housing. At least 100,000 dwellings are needed, he says, but he has not issued a detailed plan.
Except for using some Battery Park City money for housing, Mr. Bloomberg objects philosophically to new subsidies. Instead, he said he wants to foster private development by streamlining city regulations and finding new sites in waterfront areas and in cleaned-up former industrial "brownfields," ideas that the other candidates generally support. He also urges businesses and labor to sponsor new housing, as they did decades ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ZONING (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (65%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%) HOUSING; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%) LAMBERT, BRUCE; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); BADILLO, HERMAN; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



236 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: States Try to Limit Sales of Junk Food In School Buildings 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
For countless American children, breakfast or lunch drops out of a vending machine at school: a can of soda, perhaps, washing down a chocolate bar or a bag of potato chips.
 Now, a growing number of states are striking back, trying to curb the rise in childhood obesity by placing strict limits on the sale of candy, soft drinks and fatty snacks in schools. Nearly a dozen states are considering legislation to turn off school vending machines during class time, strip them of sweets or impose new taxes on soft drinks to pay for teacher salaries and breakfast programs. 
 In California, legislators appear close to passing a law that would prohibit any drinks but milk, water or juice from being sold in elementary schools, and curtail the hours older students can fuel up at vending machines. In Hawaii, legislators are pushing to oust sodas from school machines altogether. 
The wave of legislation, unusual both for its breadth and its assertiveness, grew out of the newest statistics on child obesity from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Teenagers today are almost three times as likely to be overweight as they were 20 years ago, the agency announced this year, prompting many lawmakers to take aim at the junk food they believe is to blame.
"It can't help when a child is eating chips and soda at 8 in the morning," said Martha Escutia, a state senator who backed California's bill.
The food industry says children need more exercise, not fewer choices. The bills have also angered school administrators nationwide, intensifying an already heated debate over the prevalence of commercialism in the education system.
Once little more than a novelty in schools, vending machines have become a principal source of extra money for districts across the nation, bringing in hundreds of millions of dollars for extracurricular activities each year. With dozens of machines lining their hallways, some schools annually earn $50,000 or more in commissions, then use the money for marching bands, computer centers and field trips that might otherwise fall by the wayside.
To keep such programs going, schools are emerging as the staunchest opponents of the proposed restrictions, invoking the same principles of local control that the states themselves use to fight federal standards for academic testing. In many cases, the resistance from schools has been vociferous enough to water down or defeat measures, or at least stall them until the next legislative session rolls around.
"Let the parents, the students and the school community sit down and decide how to handle this," said Robert E. Meeks, legislative director for the Minnesota School Boards Association, which has organized against legislation to curtail soda sales. Mr. Meeks added that Minnesota schools earn roughly $40 million a year from vending machines. "The states only seem to be interested in local control when it suits them," he said. 
Many lawmakers say they find it odd that educators are their biggest foes, considering that the schools are supposed to look after the welfare of their students. 
Half the students in some Texas and California districts are overweight, officials say.
"I can understand why school districts go in search of extra resources," said Jaime L. Capelo Jr., a state representative in Texas who introduced a measure to pare down the amount of junk food in schools. "But it's shameful when they obtain additional resources through contracts with soda companies with little or no regard to the health of their students."
Even some students express concern over the abundance of snack foods in their schools. Nell S. Geiser, a 17-year-old senior at New Vista High School in Boulder, Colo., says the vending machines in the building never shut down. At 7:30 a.m., outside classrooms with corporate symbols like I.B.M. painted on the walls, she says her fellow students gather in front of the humming machines, comparing schedules on daily planners with logos of the WB network, courtesy of a local television station.
"Plenty of kids make their breakfast from a Mountain Dew and a bag of Doritos," said Nell, who organizes fellow students to oppose soda contracts in schools. "You're brought up thinking it's all right to be constantly bombarded with ads and junk food because they're in your school." 
Educators, in turn, say that it is the lawmakers who are hypocritical, because as tax revenues sag in tandem with the economy, state legislatures are cutting school budgets, leaving districts with few choices but to search for substitute funds.
"Maybe it's not the best way of making money," said Paul D. Houston, executive director of the American Association of School Administrators. "But who is responsible for providing funding for schools? The very people who are now saying that we can't engage in creative ways of raising money." 
Though they are often sympathetic to the economic woes of school districts, many lawmakers argue that encouraging children to indulge at an early age is ultimately fiscally irresponsible. As students become heavier and their health deteriorates, more serious ailments like diabetes can arise, leading to higher health care costs over time. 
"What's a root canal cost? How about treating osteoporosis?" said Gene Pelowski, a Minnesota state representative and high school history teacher who is seeking to scale back soda sales in school. Mr. Pelowski said that he got the idea from his local dental association, which has been sending school principals posters comparing the acidity of Coke, Pepsi and battery acid, and suggesting that teachers drop baby teeth into beakers of soda to let students watch them decay. "If we don't monitor certain illnesses early, society pays," Mr. Pelowski said. 
The Department of Agriculture tried to ban soda and candy sales in schools more than two decades ago, but was thwarted by a federal appeals court in 1983. Now, federal regulations simply require schools to turn off soda and candy machines in the cafeteria during meal times. Those that sit outside in the hallways can stay on all day. 
Several states go further. New York, which, like a handful of other states, is considering ways to increase exercise in schools, already prohibits food of "minimal nutritional value" from being sold until after lunch. New Jersey and Maryland have similar policies. But lawmakers say that such rules often make little difference.
"They're totally ignored," said Paul G. Pinsky, a state senator in Maryland and former high school teacher who introduced a bill this year to switch off vending machines during the school day. "After the sugar high wore off and they were finished bouncing off the walls, my students' heads would fall on the desk," he said. "It made it really difficult to teach."
Part of the problem, legislators say, is that the agreements between schools and soda companies sometimes deter principals from following state policy, especially since how much schools make is often tied to how much they sell.
One contract between the Pepsi-Cola Company and the Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring, Md., stated that "if the Board of Education actively enforces the policy in which vending machines are turned off during the school day," the school will not get its guaranteed commission. But the company is now taking a more conciliatory stand. Officials of Pepsi, a unit of PepsiCo, say they have redrawn the contract and others like it over the last year, so that they reflect what the company calls the "spirit and the letter" of state policies. 
In other states, legislators question whether schools have disregarded state guidelines simply by allowing soda machines on campus. In recent years, North Carolina schools have signed vending contracts with soft drink companies, even though the state's official policy allows only sales that "contribute to the nutritional well-being of the child and aid in establishing good food habits." 
"It's a bit of a conflict, isn't it?" said Ellie G. Kinnaird, a state senator in North Carolina who is seeking a moratorium on soft drink contracts in schools. 
Six months ago, the Coca-Cola Company said that it would scale back on binding contracts with schools. But the new guidelines do not pertain to existing contracts, and may not affect future ones either.
On average, Americans drink nearly 60 gallons of soda each year, almost 8 gallons more than they did just 10 years ago. For many lawmakers, it is a given that the increase has worsened childhood obesity. To the food industry, assigning the blame to any one type of food is simplistic.
"There are no such things as good foods and bad foods," said Chip Kunde, a legislative director for the Grocery Manufacturers of America, a food industry trade group. "There are just good diets and bad diets." 
Researchers vacillate, pointing out that children are eating more of almost everything, not just sweets, while exercising less. In fact, only 29 percent of students attended daily physical education classes in 1999, compared with 42 percent in 1991, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, making it harder for them to burn off the extra calories they have put on.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alec Nord, left, and Chris Mueller, were drinking 20-ounce sodas during a sociology class in the middle of the school day at their high school in Roseville, Minn., last February. They had bought the drinks in school. (Scott Takushi/St. Paul Pioneer Press)(pg. 38) Chart: "Combating Weight Problems in School"As the percentage of overweight children increases, many states are examining their policies on selling soft drinks and candy in schools. Chart tracks Percentage of overweight children in the United States ages 5-11 and 12-19 from 1971 through 1999. Chart tracks United States per capita consumption of carbonated soft drinks from 1990 to 2000. Several states introduced bills to control the sale of junk food in public schools. CaliforniaTYPE OF BILL: Restrict sales in elementary and middle schoolsSTATUS: Pending HawaiiTYPE OF BILL: Remove all soda from school vending machinesSTATUS: Session adjourned KansasTYPE OF BILL: Tax on soft drinks to fund educationSTATUS: Session adjourned MarylandTYPE OF BILL: Shuts down machines during school daySTATUS: Defeated MinnesotaTYPE OF BILL: Prohibit soft drink sales during school daySTATUS: Session adjourned NebraskaTYPE OF BILL: Taxes snack food to pay teachersSTATUS: Session adjourned NevadaTYPE OF BILL: Adopt nutritional standards for vending machine salesSTATUS: Session adjourned North CarolinaTYPE OF BILL: Moratorium on soft drink contractsSTATUS: Pending OklahomaTYPE OF BILL: Encourage more nutritious snacks in vending machinesSTATUS: Passed TexasTYPE OF BILL: Limit junk food in vending machinesSTATUS: Session adjourned(Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; National Soft Drink Association; Grocery Manufacturers of America)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); SNACK FOODS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); OBESITY (90%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); NUTRITION (77%); OILS & FATS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (72%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (58%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VENDING MACHINES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); WEIGHT; DIET AND NUTRITION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; EXERCISE; FOOD; SOFT DRINKS; OILS AND FATS; SNACK FOODS; OBESITY 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (82%); GROCERY MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (59%); NATIONAL SOFT DRINK ASSOCIATION (59%)

PERSON: WINTER, GREG 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA; HAWAII

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



237 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Bulgari the Book, by Fay Weldon 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 You report (front page, Sept. 3) that Bulgari* is paying Fay Weldon to mention it in her forthcoming novel, to be distributed here by Grove/Atlantic.* But from the several conversations I had on my Nokia* cell phone as I drove in my Mazda Protege* to the Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort* in Atlantic City, I know that several people object to this kind of advertising. 
 I keep my cell phone on because my wife often asks me to stop at Duane Reade* for Crest* toothpaste or at Pathmark* for Maxwell House* coffee. It is important that advertisers use whatever means they can to increase demand and provide a lift to our economy.

STANLEY D. FRIEDMAN
Elmhurst, Queens, Sept. 3, 2001

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Michael Kupperman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (87%); CASINOS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LITERATURE (72%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: TRUMP TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BULGARI (CO) 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%)

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, STANLEY D; WELDON, FAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



238 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Masters, Old and New, for Sale 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS; SETH MYDANS is the Southeast Asia correspondent for The New York Times.

 BODY:
IF they want to, tourists can leave Vietnam laden with local treasure: straw hats, lacquer work, porcelain elephants, inlaid chopstick sets, Ho Chi Minh T-shirts. Also van Goghs.
 Or Rembrandts, da Vincis, Picassos, Warhols, Hoppers, Monets. You name it. 
 A surprising cottage industry has sprung up in Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon -- the copying and sale of the great masters. Up and down the alleyways in the central shopping district, men and women with paintbrushes (call them artists if you will) are busy day and night in open shopfronts turning out reproduction masterpieces. 
It is possible, depending on the skill of the copier, to find a Mona Lisa looking as if she had just been sucking on a lemon or a Mona Lisa looking as if she had just been tickled. Large or small, bright or subdued, off-the-shelf or by order, the world of art is gathered here along the sunbaked sidewalks of Saigon.
The attraction, of course, is the price. Art dealers -- who wouldn't touch these copies -- say there is more talent here, at lower prices, than any other place in Asia.
"They get orders from around the world, from Italy, Singapore, Korea, the United States," said Nguyen Thi Lan Huong, who owns Gallery Saigon, a well-respected showplace that does not deal in copies. "People learned that in Saigon you can have better-skilled artists working at cheaper prices. It's one of the few places in the world that can do reproductions at these prices."
Van Gogh's sunflowers, for example, sell for $50 or $60, with the painter keeping about $20 of that -- big money by Vietnamese standards. Dali's melting watches cost about the same. Impressionists are easy, say the painters, and therefore cheap. Big, complicated projects can cost $100 or $150. In one shop, a very large, expertly reproduced scene of Venice was selling for $350.
At the open-fronted Thanh Hoa Gallery on Le Loi Street, three or four or five painters sit near the street to catch the light, the smell of their oil paints mingling with the pungent scent of noodle soup from a nearby stall. Tourists pause to watch, then move on to pick over displays of souvenir pith helmets, engraved Zippo lighters, dog tags, opium pipes and carved statues of Buddha.
"Seventy dollars," said Truong Mui Luy, a saleswoman at the Thanh Hoa Gallery, pointing to a painting of Napoleon on a horse. "It's a classical artist, but I don't know exactly what his name is. We use good quality paint from Taiwan, so the price is a little higher. Do you like the Klimt?"
The paintings can be purchased framed or unframed, stretched or rolled. They can be carried out or sent abroad by the gallery. There is generally no problem at customs. The only sensitivity, say the gallery owners, is to depictions of the female body, and the painters generally bowdlerize their work to be on the safe side.
Modigliani's "Running Nude With Open Arms" is one painting they don't copy, said Lam Quang Thuan, who runs the little Huu Tinh Gallery on Nguyen Thiep Street.
Mr. Thuan has been turning out copies for about a decade, since Vietnam opened its economy and artists discovered that paintings can be easy money. He can paint anything. Just show him a book or a postcard.
At the age of 40, Mr. Thuan is too young to have fought in what the Vietnamese call the American war. But he served for five years as a soldier when Vietnam occupied neighboring Cambodia during the 1980's. Then, after studying art "for fun," he said, he opened his shop a decade ago and now employs seven freelance painters to supplement his own work.
It isn't hard for someone who has been to art school, he said. But some people are better adapted to certain types of paintings. "I have to decide who's good for landscapes, who's good for van Gogh, who's good for classical painting."
Evaluating his product, Mr. Thuan said, "We can reproduce with 90 percent accuracy."
Only rarely do the painters produce works for themselves, he said. One such painting, hanging in the back of his shop, is a regal portrait of Diana, the Princess of Wales, in which Mr. Thuan has substituted the face of his wife.
Over the years, he said, he has built up a regular clientele, some of whom send orders from abroad as private collectors or for sale in galleries. One frequent customer is a European banker based in Singapore, who spoke on condition that his name not be used.
"I've bought quite a lot, easily 30 or so," he said. "We have a big house and we hang them in the staircase and God knows what. They look very good in frames."
Sometimes the banker visits Mr. Thuan's shop when he is here on business and selects a few. Sometimes he sends in special orders.
"He can do more or less anything," the banker said. "The quality is good and the finish is good. I like the Kandinsky style, so I say, 'Give me something in this range.' You can look in his art books and say, 'This one, I want to have this one.' Or, 'I want to have this size, or this size.' "
Most of the buyers of reproductions are foreign tourists or resident expatriates, said Ms. Huong of Gallery Saigon. Some Vietnamese have begun buying as well, she said. "These paintings are becoming a must for the decoration of the houses of the nouveaux riches. They want to have something that people know and accept."
On a warm evening not long ago, a painter named Nguyen Van Thanh, 37, sat at his easel beside a gallery on Dong Khoi Street, working a bit distractedly on a Levitan. A shopkeeper from a neighboring boutique wandered over, pulled two cigarettes from Mr. Thanh's shirt pocket, and lighted them for both men.
"People will buy anything," Mr. Thanh said. "Whatever I paint, they buy." But certain paintings do seem to go in and out of fashion, he said. "Sometimes this, sometimes that, whatever."
Right now Botero's dancing couple seems to be the rage. It hangs at the front of almost every gallery, along with a Chinese painting of a girl in red silk pajamas.
"I've done those dancers 100 times," Mr. Thanh said, even while confessing that he did not know the name of the painting. Though he knows the scene by heart, he keeps a reproduction on his knee for reference as he paints.
The Levitan landscape he was working on now was a special order, and he was copying from a tiny reproduction in an old art book. The colors in the book were dim and blurred, and so Mr. Thanh was using his own judgment as he painted -- perhaps the greatest instance of personal creativity among all the painters working on this summer evening.
"I'll paint anything," Mr. Thanh said, clearly not very inspired by his work. But when pressed to name a favorite, he said: "I like van Gogh the best. They're pretty easy and the colors are nice and bright."
The booming business of reproductions has paralleled the emergence of Vietnamese art onto the international scene in the past decade. As the economy opened and government restrictions loosened, artists who had been restricted to official styles and themes raced to catch up with the rest of the world.
Kandinsky, Klee and Pollock were revelations to Vietnamese artists. And the emerging Vietnamese works were revelations to foreign buyers, being eclectic in style, conservative in theme, but appealing to the eye -- and cheap.
The free market is still something new in Vietnam, and most artists, it seems, paint with dollar signs in their eyes. When a painting can sell for $3,000, about 10 times the average annual wage, it is hard to produce art for the sake of art alone.
In Hoi An on the central coast, a pretty town that is gentrifying itself as the Carmel of Vietnam, almost every other shop seems to sell paintings and almost every shopkeeper has taken up the paintbrush. Actual galleries are struggling to differentiate themselves, hanging out signs that read "Genuine Artist."
With paintings now one of the most lucrative souvenir items in Vietnam inch for inch, those that sell the best are being reproduced, both by their own creators and by other painters.
And so the reproductions of the great masters in Saigon represent, in a way, the mainstream of Vietnamese art. Copying -- of van Gogh, of other Vietnamese, of one's own art -- has become one of the dominant artistic themes in Vietnam today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Monet may have died in 1926, but you still can get a spanking new "Giverny" in Ho Chi Minh City. (Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times) (pg. 10); A class where prospective artists learn copying techniques. (Doan Bao Chau for The New York Times) (pg. 22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ART DEALERS (72%); OPIUM (67%) ART; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (97%) VIETNAM (97%); VIET NAM (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (77%); ASIA (58%); NORTHERN ASIA (55%) HO CHI MINH CITY (VIETNAM); VIETNAM

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



239 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: CRIME 

BYLINE:  By Marilyn Stasio

 BODY:
It's Christmas time in the city and all the naughty boys and girls in Ed McBain's gaily wrapped crime caper MONEY, MONEY, MONEY (Simon & Schuster, $25) know exactly what they want from Santa: the $1.9 million payoff from a sweetly executed drug deal in Mexico. Cass Ridley, the United States Army pilot who flew this dodgy mission, hangs onto her share long enough to buy two fur coats, which are promptly stolen by one of those goof-up burglars who thrive in the morally askew metropolis that McBain calls Isola. But when the hapless burglar is caught passing a phony $100 bill and Cass turns up dead in the lions' den at the zoo, Steve Carella and the cops at the 87th Precinct (not to mention Fat Ollie Weeks, who claims Cass's leg for the 88th) can kiss this holiday goodbye.
 McBain plays fair and square with the complications that arise from this clever setup. Over and over, he keeps telling us to keep an eye on the money, which slips through more hands than a third-grade bathroom pass once you factor in the Harlem drug dealers, Mexican gangsters, Arab terrorists, United States government agents and small-press publishers (don't ask) who feel entitled to this mother lode of all Christmas presents. At the same time, McBain throws in such hilarious distractions that you might forget the calendar and think it was April Fool's Day. 
 Maybe they don't write whodunits anymore with the meticulous craftsmanship and psychological depth of Janet Neel's O GENTLE DEATH (St. Martin's Minotaur, $22.95) -- but they should. The thing is, it's so much easier to unload a corpse in the first chapter and point the finger at a shifty bunch of ill-defined suspects than it is to build layered characters and then challenge the reader to study each of them for signs of pathology. That's the difficult engineering task that Neel sets for herself when she introduces the teachers, students and parental figures whose lives revolve around Faraday Trust, a progressive school in the English countryside of Dorset for artistic children. Between the kids' byzantine relationships with their multiple sets of parents and stepparents and the demands that such high-strung achievers put on an institution like Faraday, the conflicts are all in place for murder. Knowing a lot about the characters doesn't make it any easier, though, to determine who did away with the troublesome girl whose desperate need for attention has disrupted the senior class and, indeed, the entire school. But as a result of Neel's compassionate character work, the reader really cares about these difficult people and, strange to admit, doesn't really want any one of them to be guilty of murder.
Joe Gores is a man who respects the classics, especially the 27 vintage Maseratis and Alfa Romeos whose snazzy bodies he salutes in CONS, SCAMS & GRIFTS (Mysterious Press, $24.95). But he also respects the brilliant battle plan of the repo agents at Daniel Kearny Associates for recovering these sexy babies from the sniveling salesmen at a bankrupt San Francisco dealership. Being something of a classic himself, Gores doesn't quit with this masterly piece of work from the repo men, whose tools are simple ("a set of pop keys, two heated and bent screwdrivers and a three-prong hot-wire") and whose style of execution has been compared in at least one court of law with that of Quantrill's Raiders. For their next trick, Kearny's men are recruited by a cunning tribe of Gypsies to find one of their own, a lovely, elusive and possibly homicidal psychic who has put a crimp in the tribe's plans to descend en masse on Rome to work their cons on gullible pilgrims. I keep waiting for Gores to run out of inventions for these outrageous plots of his; but he never does. Although this episodic caper looks like a free-for-all, his brazen schemes require high levels of intelligence and the underlying design of his ploys is quite breathtaking. 
You think independent theater companies work hard for their ephemeral art? Westfield's Men, the itinerant troupe in Edward Marston's vibrant Elizabethan mystery series, have survived fire, plague and the wrath of Puritan censors to soldier on in their punishing profession. In THE DEVIL'S APPRENTICE (St. Martin's Minotaur, $23.95), the fierce cold of a London winter sends them packing for an out-of-town gig on the well-heated estate of a country squire. This life-saving booking hangs on two conditions -- the company must present one original play and take on their patron's son as an apprentice -- that are handily met by Nicholas Bracewell, the resourceful stage manager who also does double duty as series sleuth. But the subsequent disasters that befall the company in the country lead the more superstitious among them to suspect that their new play, "The Witch of Colchester," comes with a curse. Maybe so; but a visit from this delightfully contentious troupe is always a blessing.
There's music as well as method in John Brady's densely plotted procedurals featuring Inspector Matt Minogue of the Dublin Garda murder squad. The sounds of the city can be discordant, as they are in A CARRA KING (Steerforth, paper, $14.95) when an American tourist, the disaffected son of an Irish-born multimillionaire, is found battered to death in the trunk of his rented car. There's an abrasive tone as well to the self-mocking laughter of cops on the edge. ("Why did everyone seem to talk ironically here anyway?" an American visitor wants to know.) But the keening voice of ancient Ireland can also be heard, once it comes to light that the dead man had business at the Carra Fields, a Stone Age archaeological site steeped in blood and more recently plagued by looters. Although all these insistent voices might cause some minds to shut down, Minogue loves both the sound and the substance of language. As someone who can counter an attack against Joyce with a quote from Nietzsche, he has the brains as well as the ear to pick out the false notes in the modern miracle of the Celtic Tiger economy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (BilL Charmatz) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BURGLARY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); PARENTS (70%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (69%); CHILDREN (65%); MURDER (58%); ARMIES (57%); TERRORISM (51%); STEPPARENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



240 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: The Beast in Me 

BYLINE:  By Richard Eder; Richard Eder writes book reviews and articles for The Times.

 BODY:
 FURY
By Salman Rushdie.
259 pp. New York:
Random House. $24.95.
 Portraying himself (he was his own stoic optic for viewing Spain and, just a little beyond, the universe), the poet Antonio Machado wrote in the 1930's:
See me here: old and depressed.
I carry a lion inside my breast.
Similarly, as he trips out each afternoon from his Manhattan apartment, "old-world, dandyish, cane-twirling little Solly Solanka in straw Panama hat and cream linen suit," bears a raging beast within. No mere lion, more like a shape-changing dragon. "Fury" is the title of Salman Rushdie's new novel; and fury, mostly repressed, sometimes erupting and always feeding upon itself, is the energy that moves and consumes his protagonist.
"Fury" is the first of Rushdie's novels to be set squarely in New York, although there were New York sections in "The Ground Beneath Her Feet." Malik Solanka -- the "Solly" drops away -- came from Bombay, studied and worked in Britain, and has recently fled west, leaving his wife and small son behind and eventually falling in love with a stunning Indian woman.
Here and in much else, the parallel with the author is deliberate. Although he inhabits his novels in all manner of guises and transformations, he has never been so literally present as in this one. ("Fury" is dedicated to Padma Lakshmi, the model whom the still-married Rushdie dates.)
When he moved to New York early last year, Rushdie declared himself delighted by its energy and variety. He compared it to Bombay, roamed its neighborhoods and swirled in the bubbliest of literary and celebrity circles. Malik, with a similar luftmensch style, has a much darker vision.
As Malik tells and retells it, the contemporary world, with New York as its Rome, is corrupted by the voracity and hideous waste of America's hyperthyroid economy. A python swallowing its tail, it has engorged its own culture, arts and values, and gone on to engorge those of everyone else. The ventures and misadventures of this onetime Cambridge professor of ideas, and fabulously successful deviser of television puppets, serve largely to expound that vision and cast it in a hallucinatory light.
After an ill-fitting time among the chill, ingrown humors of the Cambridge professoriate, Malik took his subject -- ideas -- into a more vital realm. He devised a BBC television show in which a girl puppet named Little Brain interrogated the philosophers. The Spinoza puppet confessed a weakness for Wodehouse; Averroes and Maimonides were Yankee fans. The show was a highbrow success, but before long, commercial producers seized on it. They created a Little Brain serial: she had a love interest, weekly adventures, lived in Brainville. There were Little Brain dolls, speaking tours, tie-ins, syndications. Malik lost control in exchange for a lot of money and a rationalization: "If an idea didn't develop, it died."
"Fury" is clearly intended to be its own puppet play; to suggest the relation between artistic creation and creator. Puppets who slip their strings, puppet masters who assume them: Malik and Rushdie, Malik's dolls and Malik. Rushdie, for that matter, and the West that supports and celebrates his invention of it. 
Malik has acquiesced, but acquiescence breeds rage. "Fury stood above him like a cresting Hokusai wave." His own fury has acquiescent roots: as a boy he was abused by his stepfather (a secret he disgorges only at the end). Dubdub, his closest Cambridge friend, and a thinker of endearing paradox, went on to teach at Princeton, became a popular success, submitted to celebrity and killed himself: "The more he became a Personality, the less like a person he felt."
Fury led Malik to see a different kind of puppetry in his wife's desire to have a second child. She was using him, he felt; and one night he took a knife to her bedside. Prudently fleeing to New York before anything happened, he grabbed up a Little Brain doll -- no deliverance from that two-way acquiescence -- and took his fury with it.
New York's delights are easy and poisonous. Malik's best friend, Jack Rhinehart, a black journalist-star of the Vietnam War, sells out to flatter and hobnob with the glamorous as a Vanity Fair profiler. Rhinehart falls in with a trio of the young superrich whose sex games include scalping their female victims; when the police close in he's murdered. Mila, the brilliant and beautiful daughter of a famous Yugoslav writer, seduces the much older Malik to replay her incestuous-father games.
In fact, just about the only figures who are neither corrupt nor hapless are Indian. One is a saintly Bombay neighbor; the other is Neela, Malik's lover. Brave, wise and double-take-in-the-street gorgeous, she temporarily purges him with sex that is both passionate and pure. She then goes back to her native country -- a place Rushdie calls Lilliput-Blefuscu, an ornamental Gulliver reference to Fiji in this insistently ornamented book -- and takes part in an Indian-minority revolution that overthrows the oppressive majority. With various other major switches, it replays last year's uprising against the Indian-led government, a subject Rushdie wrote an Op-Ed piece about for The New York Times.
Things get more elaborate and haphazard. Malik writes a second puppet story; this one about a race of puppet-kings created by a Magus figure named Akasz Kronos on the planet Galileo-1. Each is the counterpart of a character in "Fury." Thus, circularly: Rushdie creates Malik who creates Kronos who in essence is Rushdie writing "Fury." 
This could go on and on, and seems to. The book is tediously, whimsically convoluted; an elaborate replay of the creator-creation question and of commerce's corruption of art. Mila and a posse of computer geeks adapt the story as a Web site series worth a fortune in spinoffs. More riches for Malik -- and more acquiescent rage.
Malik's pronouncements on New York and America are sometimes ingenious and acute. All too often they suggest a stack of news clips and style sections cobbled together and read out. For a sampling: the Nasdaq plunge, Rudy versus Hillary, "Gush versus Bore" (live by the calendar and you die by it), groping at the Hispanic Day parade, the Camp David Mideast talks, the Buena Vista Social Club and much more. They are reeled off, often dutifully and without the angled inflection to reality that the critic Michael Wood has noted as the peculiar mark of Rushdie's talent.
Denunciations sprout like dandelions. Malik complains that the shoddy goods sold by sidewalk vendors would count as luxuries in many parts of the world. He speaks of $300 corkscrews, escort services featuring contortionists and twins and "featherlight shawls made from the chin-fluff of extinct mountain goats."
There's too much confection in the phrase. Rushdie's writing favors "ands," fewer "ors" and virtually no silences. It requires a writer's surging invention to metabolize it all; something that Rushdie manages brilliantly at his best, but not here.
Along with an array of other volatiles -- verbal caracoling, serious play, phantasmagoria and a fun-house mirror's take on past and present -- anger is one of the lighter-than-air gases that have lofted Rushdie's best writing. Less is lofted in "Fury," the anger is heavier than air and comes at the expense of flight.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Abbrederis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (77%); LITERATURE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (65%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); MUMBAI, INDIA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



241 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: American Gothic 

BYLINE:  By David Gates; David Gates's most recent book is "The Wonders of the Invisible World," a collection of stories.

 BODY:
 THE CORRECTIONS
By Jonathan Franzen.
568 pp. New York:
Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $26.
 Jonathan Franzen's marvelous new novel, "The Corrections," starts out as discouragingly as any marvelous new novel you'll ever read. The very first page devotes a full paragraph to overextending the metaphor of an "alarm bell of anxiety" ringing in a suburban house, in a community heavy-handedly called St. Jude. Then, when a septuagenarian Parkinson's sufferer named Alfred Lambert goes into demented exile in that house's basement, Franzen set off my alarm bell of anxiety by warning that some larger significance might be about to hit me over the head: "And so in the house of the Lamberts, as in St. Jude, as in the country as a whole, life came to be lived underground." Next we meet Chip Lambert, the black-sheep son -- hey, I didn't name these people Lambert -- who had to leave his teaching job because he (yawn) had an affair with a student and is now writing a screenplay, based on the (yawn) Lewinsky scandal, and beginning it with a parodically preposterous monologue on "anxieties of the phallus in Tudor drama." Even though Franzen spares us the monologue itself, I was all set to bail on him, despite the microfelicities (ants "storming" a dead opossum; "assassin-like chauffeurs" holding up signs at La Guardia) that showed he could actually write. Did I need several hundred more pages of standard-issue smarty-pants high jinks? Or, worse yet, of suburban angst speaking, in large caps, boldface and italics, to our condition? Cripes, why not just call the book "American Something-or-other"? You know, truth in packaging.
You could read "The Corrections" as a conventional realist saga of multigenerational family dynamics -- that's how the publisher spins it -- and love's mutating mysteries, with just enough novel-of-paranoia touches so Oprah won't assign it and ruin Franzen's street cred. Or you could read it as a trickier and trendier sort of work, which flawlessly mimics old-school plottiness, readability and character development in order to seduce you into realms of bottomless geopolitical-spiritual disquiet. Damned if I know. But I know what made me decide to stick with the thing long enough to tell I liked it. It was Chip's cockamamie justification for the obviously suicidal beginning of his own magnum opus: " 'My idea,' Chip said, 'was to have this "hump" that the moviegoer has to get over. Putting something off-putting at the beginning, it's a classic modernist strategy. There's a lot of rich suspense toward the end.' " Aha. Was this Franzen's own way of hinting that he himself had a bunch of goodies up his sleeve that he meant to hold back awhile longer out of sheer modernist cussedness? And that I'd miss out if I didn't pull up my socks and soldier on?
Well, sure enough, just a few pages later the book started getting better. First Chip's apparently sane sister, Denise, arrives and immediately makes herself the reader's ally. "If I grant that these are interesting issues," she asks Chip, who is delivering a too-familiar aria about antidepressants as an adjunct to consumerism, "will you stop talking about them?" Next comes a flashback in which one of Chip's students (she's splendidly hostile and relentlessly seductive) lays siege to his virtue and gives him a mysterious drug, an antidepressant-aphrodisiac in golden caplets she calls "Mexican A" -- and which we somehow sense (and if we don't, I'm telling you) that we'll learn much, much more about. And suddenly we were rocking: I only put the book down again when my life needed tending to. Mind you, I'm still not convinced that Franzen actually meant his first 30 pages to be such a slog, but it's an awfully funny coincidence.
It shouldn't interfere with anybody's rich suspense to report that all the mighty bulk of "The Corrections" turns on a single, definingly American question: Will Mom be able to get the whole family home for one last Christmas? Franzen tucks the more momentous questions into a branching system of subplots, starring each of the main characters in turn and making each one equally sympathetic. Will Alfred (a) be put in a nursing home, (b) enter a radical new treatment plan that proposes to restructure his brain or (c) deliver himself with that Hemingway-evoking shotgun in the basement? Will Denise, who cooks at a nouveller-than-thou restaurant, end up in bed with (a) her financial backer, (b) his wife or (c) both? Will Chip get (a) rich off that screenplay, (b) his married girlfriend back or (c) himself killed during a coup in Lithuania, where he goes as an aide to a politician turned con man? Will Gary, the banker who's the oldest of the Lamberts' offspring, (a) make a killing in biotech stocks, (b) stand up to his crafty wife and mocking children or (c) just keep drinking? Finally, will Enid, the materfamilias, ever get a grip?
And those are just a few of the balls Franzen keeps in the air. What will a drug, trade-named Aslan after the Christly lion in C. S. Lewis's Narnia books, do to his characters (if they end up hooked on it) and to society as a whole (if the stuff ever gets F.D.A. approval)? "Mexican A" is only one variety of Aslan; another is a revolutionary Parkinson's medication called Corecktall. What does the upcoming execution of a brutal killer have to do with it all? Can Corecktall also detangle the criminal brain? What's the connection between a long-forgotten patent held by Alfred and the schemes of a gurulike neurobiologist? Unless I missed something, Franzen ultimately lets this ball drop, and I wasn't sorry to see the last of it. Psychotropic drugs and their supposedly problematic effects on human autonomy and identity is a topic as old as "Brave New World" and as new as Peter D. Kramer's "Listening to Prozac" -- which is no longer all that new. In his own recent novel, "Spectacular Happiness," Kramer himself seems bored with the topic.
Sure, I guess it's a no-no to put stuff in your book that doesn't pay off, but I can't scrape together much outrage when I'm basically having a good time. Anyhow, you have to expect a degree of indeterminacy in an ambitious novel these days; an intricately, perfectly paranoid book like Pynchon's "Crying of Lot 49," in which everything seems to have some sinister relation to everything else, now seems as quaintly formalist as "The Waste Land." Franzen coyly tips his hat to several forebears along the way: he gives us a Web address called gaddisfly.com (Franzen's title, of course, echoes that of William Gaddis's novel "The Recognitions"), a magician named Alain Gregarius, a "brainy-looking" cruise-ship passenger named Roth, a slasher movie called "Moody Fruit," even a city park with the same name (Waindell) as the college where Nabokov's Pnin teaches. And some of the white noise in Alfred's head -- cirruslike clusterings of very high frequencies off in deep stratosphere behind his ears" -- must derive from Don DeLillo. These shadow presences announce that Franzen likes his fiction smart and larky, with glimpses of scary depths and a flirtatious, on-and-off relationship with realism. But you already knew that. And the success of David Foster Wallace's epic, minutely interconnected, ultimately unresolved "Infinite Jest" has made a novel like "The Corrections" -- a far less dense and demanding read -- seem part of a new mainstream, in which either teasing hints of formalism dress up the randomness or irruptions of randomness juice up the formalism. (Choose one. Or not.) Whether or not this is a good idea is a matter of taste -- and a debate dating back to the Dionysians versus the Apollonians.
In "The Corrections," though, Franzen maintains a scrupulous neutrality on questions of order versus energy, control versus license, tradition versus innovation, old stick-in-the-muds versus their unmoored children. Lamberts versus lions. Alfred is an open-and-shut case of anality and sexual repression (and I guess I should admit that the R. Crumb-like talking feces he hallucinates may not be the book's subtlest moment), yet he's silently self-sacrificing, and admirable in his rigorous work ethic and fidelity. Enid is silly, obsessive and manipulative, yet loving and blessed with an unsuspected capacity for acceptance and self-reinvention. Franzen doesn't caricature either Gary's desperate embrace of family values or Denise's addled sexual adventurism; and he soon shows us Chip as far more than a cartoon of breast-fixation and arty self-delusion. The end of the novel has the same ambivalence Kafka achieves at the end of "The Metamorphosis": we're glad that one character has been released from an oppressive bond, yet we also suspect that a nobler soul has been undervalued. If you don't end up liking each one of Franzen's people, you probably just don't like people. And by the way, assuming the book really does speak to our condition, it doesn't pretend to know more about it than we do.
Still, it's often the microfelicities that keep you barreling through "The Corrections" toward its larger satisfactions. Wordplay worthy of Nabokov: a few pages after a discussion of a museum of transportation, Alfred and Enid slip into their marital bed, "the museum of antique transports." Tiny, revelatory gestures: the fastidious Gary sniffing his mother's dish towel before drying his hands on it. Magically precise images: a sandwich opened to "a slice of bologna on which the texture of bread was lithographed in yellow mustard." Knowing one-liners: "Police in ski masks," Chip says at a particularly bad moment in his Lithuanian adventure. "I'm struggling to put a positive construction on this." Franzen writes with convincing authority about the minutiae of railroads, clothing, medicine, economics, industry, cuisine and Eastern European politics, and he knows just when to push his conceits over the top -- like his Lithuanian city built of radioactive cinder blocks from Belarus. But he also knows his way around more intimate territory. Enid painfully contrasts her current married life not only with "the loving-kindness of other couples," but with the days when Alfred had "been mad for her and had looked into her eyes." 
No one book, of course, can provide everything we want in a novel. But a book as strong as "The Corrections" seems ruled only by its own self-generated aesthetic: it creates the illusion of giving a complete account of a world, and while we're under its enchantment it temporarily eclipses whatever else we may have read. But I guess that is everything we want in a novel -- except, when it's rocking along, for it never to be over. In that respect, "The Corrections" ends as disappointingly as it began. And in that respect only.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ed Lam) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); FAMILY (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



242 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: From Kowalski to Corleone 

BYLINE:  By Gary Giddins; Gary Giddins, a staff writer at The Village Voice, is the author, most recently, of "Bing Crosby: A Pocketful of Dreams -- The Early Years, 1903-1940" and "Visions of Jazz."

 BODY:
 MARLON BRANDO
By Patricia Bosworth.
228 pp. New York:
Lipper/Viking. $21.95.
 IN 1943, Marlon Brando -- born in Omaha in 1924, raised in a farmhouse outside Chicago and just expelled from the Shattuck Military Academy in Minnesota -- traveled to New York and signed up for classes at the New School's Dramatic Workshop. The celebrated acting teacher Stella Adler, who within six years would found her Conservatory of Acting, recognized his genius and practically adopted him, encouraging him to focus his gifts. She was determined to prove to him that "artists can change the world," as Patricia Bosworth relates in her illuminating "Marlon Brando," one of the Penguin Lives series of short biographies. He was skeptical then, and he remained so. But he did change the world as well as his profession. 
Brando gave American actors new modes of being racked with ambiguities. By turns wounding and wounded, charming and terrifying, manly and boyish and feminine, he brought an unpredictable verisimilitude to his characters and a matchless mastery of space and tempo. You can't take your eyes off him, even when his performance is absurdly misguided -- for example, his contemplative Nazi in "The Young Lions" (1958), quietly issuing commands while bullets blaze around him. His greatest performances -- in "A Streetcar Named Desire" (1951), "Julius Caesar" (1953), "On the Waterfront" (1954), "Reflections in a Golden Eye" (1967), "The Godfather" (1972), "Last Tango in Paris" (1972) -- are so minutely detailed and intimately imagined that they almost capsize the films that contain them. In many instances, his lesser performances salvage films that we would not otherwise remember. 
Adler insisted: "Don't act. Behave," and Elia Kazan claimed that the job of directing was to turn "psychology into behavior." In Brando they found an actor whose behavior onstage and off mirrored a pervasive anxiety that combined familiar ingredients in the postwar generation's drift toward self-immolation: a deep-seated fear of change and a seething impatience with the status quo. Brando was never a rebel without a cause. He knew the causes very well, and he was especially attuned to issues of racial discrimination. But as an artist, he also knew that the need to rebel is a cause in itself. In the years before rock 'n' roll rent the culture, a period during which, as Bosworth comments, "adolescents were becoming like aliens," he symbolized the tentative young American coming of age in a spasm of distrust, anger, self-pity and daring. To his chagrin, countless moviegoers hoped to emulate him, no matter how reprehensible the characters he played.
Even today, audiences tend to experience his Stanley Kowalski one way while "A Streetcar Named Desire" is unspooling, and another in recollection. Brando refused to soften the edges in his depiction of a narcissistic bully who weeps copiously when he fails to get his way through brute force. The censors prevented him from speaking the play's crucial line, "We've had this date with each other from the beginning," prior to raping Blanche, but they could do nothing about the sadistic glint in his eye. (A member of the National Theater of the Deaf told Bosworth that Brando is their favorite actor because "even though we can't hear what he's saying, we know exactly what he means.") Yet days after seeing the film, one's revulsion is strangely vitiated. We are charmed in spite of ourselves and in spite of what Tennessee Williams intended. Has Brando tilted the play? Or has he added an essential component, revealing better than Williams why -- the movie censors notwithstanding -- Stella will never leave Stanley?
After touring with Katharine Cornell in "Candida," Brando expressed his disdain for her imperious theatrical style. "Acting with her," he remarked, "is like trying to bite down on a tomato seed." The line, typical of his wit, would seem to apply to the whole school of bewigged, studied acting that predominated when he came along. Yet, as Bosworth shows, Brando's approach was entrenched in the tradition of externals, as opposed to the Method's emphasis on "internal abilities -- sensory, psychological and emotional." His favorite actor was Paul Muni, who disappeared into makeup, accent, costume and gestures. Brando's most obvious triumph in that vein was as Don Corleone, but he had always gravitated toward disguises. Adler, unlike her rival Lee Strasberg, believed that combined with the actor's imagination, "the art, architecture, and clothes of an era were crucial to shaping a role." According to Bosworth, it was Stanley's costume -- torn T-shirt, tight jeans, dyed brown hair -- that released Brando emotionally.
Not that he needed much urging. Brando's emotions were always simmering, which is perhaps one reason his dramatic rages -- the table-clearing in "A Streetcar Named Desire" or the "No!" he shouts at his mother-in-law in "Last Tango in Paris" -- are so explosive. His childhood wounds never quite hardened into scabs, and their freshness remained a ready source of inspiration. His father was a drunk who brutalized and humiliated him and later squandered much of his fortune. His mother, also a drunk, adored him and hoped he would achieve the dramatic success she coveted. Brando worshiped her, though he once had to escort her home naked from a bar -- one of several memories he drew upon for his improvised monologues in "Last Tango in Paris."
Brando received his first review in the military academy's paper: "The new boy shows enormous talent." His primary gifts were for mimicry and pantomime. He had the kids "squirming in their seats," Bosworth says, with his Dillinger impersonation, and was so popular that the cadets went on strike to protest his expulsion. In New York, his mimetic talents were widely noted by friends. He would ride the subway and adopt the physical posture of each person in the car, men and women alike; he had no fear of indulging the androgynous sexuality that deepened in his mature work. Bosworth makes much of the extensive research and improvisation that went into his acting; some of his finest ideas solved logistical problems. For example, neither the director nor the writer of "On the Waterfront" could come up with a reason for Eva Marie Saint to walk with the man who has inadvertently killed her brother. So before the cameras rolled, Brando asked her to drop her glove. Instead of handing it back to her, he put it on his own hand, forcing her to stand shivering in the cold, hearing him out. As Corleone, he devised the orange-peel fangs to hold the attention of the little boy playing his grandson.
But Brando's doubts about acting and himself, combined with his draining emotionalism and troublesome finances, combined to blunt his genius and, for a time, his box office power. In his memoir of 1963, "Stage Directions," John Gielgud described him as "a thrilling artist," but complained of a public that encouraged him to "overcultivate a kind of mannered technique" that stultified his imagination. By 1971, a year before "The Godfather," Brando was considered unemployable. Yet a year after the successes of that film and "Last Tango in Paris," he again allowed his career to fizzle into decades of glorified -- and extravagantly paid-for -- cameos and hack work, desiring only to escape to Tahiti, where the people have "happy, unmanaged faces." He apparently despised not only his profession but his own beauty. Excepting Orson Welles, has any other actor cloistered himself in so much fat? And yet even now, in films utterly beneath him, he can mesmerize -- revealing, for example, great comic aplomb and the occasional epiphany in misdirected junk like "Free Money" and "The Score." 
Patricia Bosworth, a superb biographer, has written lives of Montgomery Clift, Diane Arbus and, most impressively, her father, Bartley C. Crum, in the brave, candid memoir "Anything Your Little Heart Desires." A former actress, she is an ardent but critical Brandophile, who elegantly puts life and art into context (though she does slightly skew the plot of "Last Tango in Paris"), paying necessary attention to Brando's politics and complicated marital life. "Marlon Brando" disappoints only in its brevity. When Bosworth writes that the loathsome 1966 potboiler "The Chase" is being re-evaluated, one is eager to learn how. Indeed, one would like to hear her discourse at length on all of Brando's films, good and bad, almost as much as one would like to see King Marlon, at 77, assay a role that requires him to survey his empire, fatally misinterpret those who love him best, and rail against God and nature.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marlon Brando in a publicity still made in connection with the original Broadway production of "A Streetcar Named Desire," which opened in December 1947. (G. Maillard Kesslere) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); FILM (75%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%); DISCRIMINATION (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



243 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Reckoning With China 

BYLINE:  By Patrick E. Tyler; Patrick E. Tyler, the Moscow bureau chief of The Times, was the Beijing bureau chief from 1993 to 1997. He is the author of "A Great Wall: Six Presidents and China."

 BODY:
 THE COMING COLLAPSE
OF CHINA
By Gordon G. Chang.
344 pp. New York:
Random House. $26.95.
 The Bush administration is taking a dim view of China just as that country is headed for+a historic transformation accompanied by widespread domestic upheaval. In fact, the upheaval has already begun. 
Later this year, China will enter the World Trade Organization, thus opening wider than ever the breach in the great wall of trade barriers that have protected the monopoly position of Chinese state industries, industries that serve a domestic market of 1.3 billion people. 
Tariffs will uniformly drop to levels that will allow Sony, General Electric, Siemens, Nokia and hundreds of other corporate giants to enter China on a level playing field with thousands of moribund Chinese state enterprises, many of which are likely to be bankrupted in the competitive frenzy. Millions of Chinese workers could well be thrown out of shuttered factories, joining the 200 million or more unemployed or underemployed people who have surged into the country's cities and towns in search of work. Imagine what would happen if they all act like the farmer reported to have cut off a tax collector's ear during one melee this year. 
Just as significant, China will get a new set of leaders next year, since President Jiang Zemin, Prime Minister Zhu Rongji and the hard-line chairman of the National People's Congress, Li Peng, are all scheduled for retirement. There may not be a Thomas Jefferson among the new and younger set of faces expected to take over the ruling Politburo, but in China's context, they will be more liberal and more modern by virtue of their age and their commitment to the economic reforms begun by Deng Xiaoping in 1978. Thus, China's economic revolution, well into its third decade, has finally set the stage for a long-delayed political reckoning. 
There is no guarantee that it will be peaceful or orderly, as Gordon G. Chang reminds us with a set of provocative arguments in "The Coming Collapse of China." For Chang, who has spent most of two decades in China, most recently as counsel to the American law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, the country is a "lake of gasoline" waiting for the match that membership in the World Trade Organization will bring. 
"On paper," Chang says, "China looks powerful and dynamic even today." In reality, however, it "is a paper dragon. Peer beneath the surface, and there is a weak China, one that is in long-term decline and even on the verge of collapse. The symptoms of decay are to be seen everywhere." 
Chang does not take a systematic approach in marshaling the case for China's collapse, but instead offers a catalog of anecdotes -- some of them interesting, others definitely not -- from the China he discovered as a lawyer, businessman and intelligent observer. There are too many moments of stultifying repetition in this, his first book, but he raises legitimate concerns about whether China can withstand the wrenching economic changes that are coming. 
In June, the party's Central Committee set off its own alarm, publishing a warning that the growing pattern of large-scale protests by farmers, workers and religious and ethnic dissidents, sometimes involving tens of thousands of people, shows that entry into the World Trade Organization "may bring growing dangers and pressures" that can severely harm "social stability" and hinder the "smooth implementation of reform." Similarly, two China specialists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, George Gilboy and Eric Heginbotham, argued in Foreign Affairs this summer that "the coming set of reforms" required by China's entry into the World Trade Organization "is likely to set in motion a process of political change that may be longer and more tumultuous than anyone has yet imagined." 
What is important about these predictions is how timely they seem, coming as they do with the arrival of the Bush administration, which has entered office treating China as a potential threat to the peace and stability of Asia, bent on dominating the region and preparing for a military onslaught against Taiwan. The reality is that China's major focus is internal. 
George Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, for one, seems to lean toward a formulation of inevitable conflict when she portrays China as America's "strategic competitor" in Asia. But many prominent voices have been urging Bush to take a quieter approach to Beijing. The collision earlier this year between an American spy plane and a Chinese fighter, and Bush's subsequent approval of a large sale of weapons to Taiwan, over which China claims sovereignty, have heightened the sense of conflict. 
Predictions of cataclysm are endemic to China watching, yet it is interesting that many of them, including Gordon G. Chang's, recognize that what the Chinese want most is a stable environment in which to fulfill their goals for economic prosperity. After all, they have had a pretty lousy 150 years of war, invasion, famine and national degradation. 
As Chang discovered, China is a nation of contradictions. Many of its state industries are virtually bankrupt; its banking system sits on a mountain of unrecognized bad debts; its agriculture is primitive; pollution is out of control; and government interference and corruption are killing off a number of new business ventures. But China's private economy, which has been trading with the world for decades, continues to soar, contributing more than half the country's economic output. Foreign exchange reserves were $166 billion at the end of 2000. And the Chinese have become the greatest savers in the world, salting away in savings accounts 40 percent of gross domestic product each year. Chang touches on these points. He even notes that where there are success stories among Chinese industries, tens of thousands of Chinese managers flock to learn from them. This does not feel like Bolshevism. 
Economic change and the creation of markets is a destructive process, as the United States learned during the downsizing decade of the 1990's and in today's Internet shakeout. China may now be headed for an even bigger shock, perhaps for the better, though possibly, it must be said, for the worse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (81%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); SIEMENS AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



244 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: A New Crop of Hotels in Miami 

BYLINE:  By LARA PETUSKY COGER 

 BODY:
WHEN Ian Schrager opened the 208-room Delano on Collins Avenue in 1995, the renaissance of South Beach was under way, but the neighborhood was still like a "ghost town," he says, "with all the hotels boarded up and empty." 
 At the same time, the City of Miami "hadn't had a new property in so long it was just a dead zone," said Mark Lunt, a hotel industry consultant with Ernst & Young. "It was like a city on pause." 
 The situation, of course, has changed radically since then. 
Miami and Miami Beach are enjoying a boom in hotel development, especially high-visibility luxury projects: a 329-room Mandarin Oriental opened officially at the end of March on Brickell Key; in July, a 402-room Ritz-Carlton opened on Key Biscayne; and the 325-room Shore Club has opened in Miami Beach. A 222-room Four Seasons is scheduled to open on Brickell in late 2002, and the 87-room Setai Resort, being created by Adrian Zecha, who developed the Amanresorts chain, is scheduled to open on Collins Avenue in Miami Beach in early 2003. Ritz-Carlton is constructing two additional hotels, one with 115 rooms in Coconut Grove planned to open in January, and the other with 375 rooms on South Beach scheduled to open in early 2002.
The area had a lot of catching up to do, according to Scott Berman, partner in hospitality and leisure consulting at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Miami. "When other major cities were going through rapid expansions of their hotel stock," he said, "Miami was often left out." 
In the early 1990's, in particular, when hotel development was beginning a growth spurt through much of the United States, "in Miami, we experienced a category 5 hurricane in 1992; there were well publicized crimes against tourists in 1993 and 1994," he explained.
According to Mr. Lunt, a major catalyst for Miami's hotel boom was the 800-room Loews Hotel that opened in Miami Beach in 1998 in partnership with the City of Miami Beach, the first new hotel built there in 30 years. "When it opened it did really well," he recalled. "Every developer in turn wanted to do the same thing."
Despite the rapid growth, competition for the 1,800-plus new luxury rooms built or planned within a two-and-a-half-year span doesn't seem to be a major concern for hoteliers.
William Talbert, president and C.E.O. of the Greater Miami Convention and Visitors Bureau, said, "It's recognition in the marketplace of what Miami is now, and what it's going to be in the future."
Miami's future concerns Mr. Schrager, a relative old-timer in the business here. Mr. Schrager said he hoped the area had matured enough to weather economic uncertainty, a strong dollar's dampening effect on foreign visitors, and, of course, hurricane season. Miami and its beaches have suffered a series of boom and bust periods over the last 80 to 90 years, he noted.
"The question is," he said, "is it still like that, or has it changed into something else: the gateway to Latin America, a 24-hour international city, a playground." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); LODGING (78%); HURRICANES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); TOURISM (70%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: COGER, LARA PETUSKY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) MIAMI (FLA); MIAMI BEACH (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



245 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Whale Watching Grows Into a $1 Billion Industry

BYLINE:  By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

 BODY:
WHILE the debate continues over commercial whaling by a few countries that refuse to follow international agreements prohibiting it, whales are providing the world with another booming industry: boat trips by tourists who have no interest in dining on blubber but just want to see the world's largest mammals. 
 Whale watching worldwide now accounts for $1 billion in spending each year by more than nine million people who take part in excursions from almost 90 countries, according to a report published in July by the International Fund for Animal Welfare and written by Erich Hoyt, an author specializing in whale research. 
 Other studies have found similar results, showing that whale watching is growing steadily. The studies count not just the direct expenditures for boat tickets, but also the spending on lodging, food and the like where trips are offered. 
The benefits of whale watching are educational and scientific, as well as economic, according to government and private conservation groups that have studied it, because people who see whales in the wild are likely to support conservation measures.
For that reason, groups like WWF International, the global secretariat of what was formerly called the World Wildlife Fund, which advocates the protection of wildlife, are trying to encourage whale watching, especially in countries that have resumed whaling or have considered doing so. In Norway, which hunts whales and is reopening its trade in whale meat, the group supported the establishment of the Whale Center in Andenes, and it is financing orca studies in the Tysfjord, in which researchers work with the whale watching operators. 
In Iceland, which has said it intends to resume whaling, WWF has provided funds for the Whale Center, an interactive museum in Husavik, the country's most popular whale watching town. Tens of thousands go whale watching each year in Iceland, and Cassandra Phillips, the senior policy adviser on whales for WWF International, says that the economic value may already exceed what would be gained if Iceland resumed commercial whaling.
Even in Japan, which has six whaling vessels at sea, more than 100,000 people took whale watching trips in 1998. 
Mr. Hoyt's survey, the most comprehensive and most recent, found that whale watching is now offered in 492 communities around the world, nearly 200 more than he found in a 1994 study. The number of those making trips to see whales has been increasing more than 12 percent a year for a decade, he found. The United States, Canada and the Canary Islands, part of Spain, each have more than a million people take such trips annually; Australia and South Africa each should pass the million-person mark soon, he predicted.
Whale watching began to take hold in the mid-1970's in the United States, and is now among New England's notable recreational industries, with annual revenues of $21 million, according to a study by the Commerce Department. In 1996, the study said, more than 860,000 people took trips around the Stellwagen Bank National Marine Sanctuary off New England.
In Hawaii, the Commerce Department reported, 52 vessels offered whale watching trips in 1999. Together, they ran an average of 87 trips a day during the whale season, carrying more than 3,000 passengers daily, or nearly 370,000 during the season, December to April. Commercial tour operators collected $11 million from passengers; the total value of the industry to the local economy was estimated at $27 million.
Whale watching vessels range from small, rigid-bottomed inflatables used to see orcas in the Pacific Northwest, humpbacks in Hawaii or belugas and blue whales in the Gulf of St. Lawrence off the Saguenay River in Quebec, to large boats like the high-speed catamarans that take as many as 200 whale watchers out in New England.
Most people take day trips, but cruise ships visit the feeding humpbacks and orcas in Glacier Bay, Alaska, each summer.
Binoculars and cameras threaten whales less than harpoons do. But the burgeoning of the industry has raised concerns that the whales may be harassed by boats that approach too fast, come too close or otherwise stress them. In July, a pregnant humpback whale died of injuries apparently suffered when she was struck by a cruise ship in Alaskan waters, conservation officials say. The humpback is an endangered species. 
Despite such risks, there are no consistent regulations on whale watching, although in some countries, including the United States, the industry is developing voluntary guidelines to protect the whales.
Mark Spalding, a professor at the University of California at San Diego who has studied and favors whale watching, said at a policy forum on the subject in March: "There is no question there are short-term impacts on whales of whale watching, including behavioral changes, breathing, dives and flight. And until we have proven there is no long-term impact, we should exercise caution."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Whale watchers get a look at a humpback off Cape Cod. (Dolphin Fleet of Provincetown) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHALING (93%); MARINE MAMMALS (92%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ZOOLOGY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); MAMMALOGY (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); WRITERS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); ANIMAL WELFARE (70%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; WHALES AND WHALING; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR ANIMAL WELFARE (57%)

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ICELAND (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



246 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 7179 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/ART: THE ANNOTATED LIST; 
Traces of Sichuan in New York, Brooklyn in Palm Beach

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
 A * indicates an event of special note.

September

"BERNARDO BELLOTTO" A nephew, pupil and assistant of Canaletto, Bellotto (1720-80) also painted Venice but gave it the silvery chill of northern weather. This survey comes from Venice to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. Through Oct. 21. (713-639-7300) www.mfah.org

"YOU LOOK BEAUTIFUL LIKE THAT: THE PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHS OF SEYDOU KEITA AND MALICK SIDIBE" Two artists from Bamana, Mali, with long careers who have gained international notice. Seydou Keita's 1940's and 50's studio shots of women in patterned dresses against pattern backdrops are knockouts, as are Malick Sidibe's 1960's and 70's records of urban night life. Together they capture a culture in transition. Fogg Art Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. Through Dec. 16. Don't miss a separate show at Harvard's Carpenter Center for Visual Arts of the prodigious Nigerian-born artist Ike Ude. Through Oct. 21. (617-495-9400)
www.artmuseums.harvard.edu

"DIRTY DEEDS DONE DIRT CHEAP" This group show paints a picture of contemporary youth gone terribly, tragically and very imaginatively wrong. Among the rebels-with-a-cause artists are Jesse Bransford, Sue de Beer and Banks Violette. The Atlanta Contemporary Art Center. Through Nov. 3. (404-688-1970) www.nexusart.org

"SHIFTING TIDES: CUBAN PHOTOGRAPHY AFTER THE REVOLUTION" Much of this show dates from the 1980's and 90's; unlike earlier Cuban work in the medium, it tends to be conceptually based, politically oblique and anti-utopian. Grey Art Gallery, New York University. Through Oct. 27. (212-998-6780) www.nyu.edu
/greyart. Traveling to the Museum of Contemporary Photography in Chicago, Jan. 11-March 9.

"EPIC PHOTOGRAPHY OF THE CUBAN REVOLUTION" For a blast of documentary immediacy, the Cuban Art Space in Chelsea has a baby-faced Fidel, a Byronic Che and a festive Havana. Through Oct. 27. (212-242-0559)
www.cubanartspace.net

"BROOKLYN!" With its humming art communities, Brooklyn is the place to be; now Brooklyn's in Florida, with this show of nearly 90 artists spanning three generations. Included is a reconstruction of the smallest Williamsburg space, a backyard potting shed called Holland Tunnel. Palm Beach Institute of Contemporary Art, Lakeworth, Fla. Through Nov. 25. (561-582-0006) www.palmbeachica.org

* "THE SHORT CENTURY" Organized by Okwui Enwezor, this enormous show is devoted to the independence and liberation movements in colonial and post-colonial Africa between 1945 and 1994. The stakes were high; the personalities -- Patrice Lumumba, Nelson Mandela -- stupendous; the art staggeringly diverse. A survey like this can only hint at the scope of its subject, but what a subject. Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. Through Dec. 30. (312-280-2660) www.mcachicago.org. Traveling to P. S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Queens, Feb. 10-May 5.

"TRENTON DOYLE HANCOCK: THE LIFE AND DEATH OF NO. 1" This young Texas-born artist is a find. His dense collage-paintings bring a dry wit and a charge of apocalyptic urgency to autobiographical references and the subject of African-American life. Contemporary Arts Museum, Houston. Through Oct. 14. (713-284-8250) www.camh.org

"ROB PRUITT" Best known of late for his menagerie of glitter-covered disco-pandas, this New York artist does a riff on 1960's Fluxus in "101 Ideas You Can Do Yourself." Contemporary Arts Center, Cincinnati. Through Nov. 4. (513-721-0390) www.spiral.org

"ABSTRACT ART FROM THE RIO DE LA PLATA, 1933-1953" The Rio de la Plata regions of Argentina and Uruguay produced a vibrant modernist movement lead by Joaquin Torres-Garcia, and it is the subject of this survey. Americas Society. Tuesday through Dec. 9. (212-249-8950) www.americas-society.org

"BAMANA: THE ART OF EXISTENCE IN MALI" The Bamana produced one of the iconic African sculptural forms in the ci-wara headdress. This show will include examples of it along with 90 other objects, accompanied by video documentation of social and religious life. Museum for African Art. Thursday through March 3. (212-966-1313) www.africanart.org

"MEDICI PORTRAITS FROM THE UFFIZI GALLERY" The Medici, who were the Sopranos of the Renaissance, weren't shy about having their pugnacious mugs preserved for posterity, as will be evident in this lineup. Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, Philadelphia. Friday through Dec. 9. (215-972-7600) www.pafa.org

"KENRO IZU: SACRED PLACES" More than 60 images by this Japanese-born photographer, who visits holy sites around the world. Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, Mass. Friday through Dec. 2. (978-745-9500) www.pem.org

"RUDI GERNREICH: FASHION WILL GO OUT OF FASHION" Well, it hasn't so far, and the fashion-as-art thing burbles on with work by the designer who made the Swinging 60's swing a little faster with his topless swimsuits and transparent "no-bra" bras. His enduring monument, though, is the thong. Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia. Saturday through Nov. 11. (215-898-5911)
www.icaphila.org

"DOUGLAS GORDON" A traveling survey of the Scottish artist who bases video installations on Hollywood classics like "Psycho" and "The Searchers." Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. Next Sunday through Jan. 20. (213-621-2766) www.moca.org. Traveling to the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in February and to the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington next June.

* "HELIO OITICICA: QUASI-CINEMAS" Oiticica (1937-80) was a Brazilian culture hero on the order of Warhol and Beuys in their own countries. His conceptual work involved sculpture, performance, film, sound installation and a personal charisma that lingers on. Organized by Carlos Basualdo. Wexner Center for the Arts, Columbus, Ohio. Sept. 18-Dec. 30. (614-292-3535) www.wexarts.org

"LOUIS M. EILSHEMIUS (1864-1941): AN INDEPENDENT SPIRIT" Eilshemius, who called himself "Mightiest Man and Wonder of the Worlds," was an American painter who in the 1920's and 30's turned out landscapes that suggest a Surrealist version of Corot. Duchamp loved his work, but it didn't sell, and the artist died penniless at Bellevue Hospital in New York. National Academy of Design. Sept. 19-Dec. 30. (212-369-4880)
www.nationalacademy.org

"ALFRED JENSEN: CONCORDANCE" Another American oddball, but in a painterly, semi-abstract mode, Jensen was obsessed with astronomical and cultural systems, and from them devised arcane systems of his own. "Great Pyramid" (1980), a late painting never publicly exhibited until now, will baffle and delight. Dia Center for the Arts. Sept. 20-June 16. (212-989-5566) www.diacenter.org

"MICHELANGELO: DRAWINGS AND OTHER TREASURES FROM THE CASA BUONARROTI, FLORENCE" This show brings 21 drawings, including studies for the Sistine "Last Judgment" and the Laurentian Library, to the Toledo Museum of Art, in Ohio. Sept. 21-Nov. 25. (419-255-8000)
www.toledomuseum.org

"PICTURES TELL THE STORY: ERNEST C. WITHERS" A self-employed photographer working in Memphis in the late 1940's, Ernest C. Withers documented the birth of rock 'n' roll and the civil rights movement. He's a national treasure. High Museum, Atlanta. Sept. 22-Jan. 26. (404-733-4437) www.high.org

* "VAN GOGH AND GAUGUIN: THE STUDIO OF THE SOUTH" Van Gogh, never short on utopian schemes, tried to create an artists' community in Arles and recruited Gauguin to join him. The two began as soul mates, but the idyll of their collaboration was brief. Art Institute of Chicago. Sept. 22-Jan. 13. (312-443-0193) www.artic.edu

"THE SPORT OF LIFE AND DEATH: THE MESOAMERICAN BALLGAME" Three-strikes-you're-out had fatal consequences in the pre-Columbian religious ritual known as the ballgame. Blood sacrifice was part of the sport. Mint Museum of Art, Charlotte, N.C. Sept. 22-Dec. 30. (704-337-2000) www.mintmuseum.org. Traveling to the New Orleans Museum of Art, Feb. 16-April 28, and the Joslyn Art Museum, Omaha, June 8-Sept. 1.

"IMPRESSIONIST STILL LIFE" Relax, there is an Impressionism show this year, though it is being supplemented -- adulterated, you may say -- with post-Impressionist paintings to keep a still-life theme cooking. Phillips Collection, Washington. Sept. 22-Jan. 13. (202-387-2151) www.phillipscollection.org. Traveling to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Feb. 17-June 9.

* "PIETER BRUEGEL THE ELDER, DRAWINGS AND PRINTS" Bruegel was the premier Netherlandish painter and draftsman of the 16th century; his "Harvesters" is one of the most popular paintings at the Met. Now the museum presents 52 of his 61 surviving drawings, among them hallucinatory Alpine landscapes. Metropolitan Museum of Art. Sept. 25-Dec. 2. (212-535-7710)
www.metmuseum.org

"TREASURES FROM A LOST CIVILIZATION: ANCIENT CHINESE ART FROM SICHUAN" Organized by the Bureau of Cultural Relics of Sichuan Province and the Seattle Art Museum, this show's sculptures and artifacts are further proof of astonishing archaeological activity in China. Whole civilizations are showing up, and one of the earliest was in Sichuan. Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth. Sept. 30-Jan. 13. (817-332-8451) www
.kimbellart.org. Traveling to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, March 6-June 16.

"DAVID SHRIGLEY" This young Glasgow-based artist's drawings are like anxious doodles spit from the unconscious. Hundreds of them will swarm through this show. Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. Sept. 30-Dec. 14. (845-758-7412) www.bard.edu/ccs

"MATTA IN AMERICA: PAINTINGS AND DRAWINGS OF THE 1940'S" The show covers the career of the Chilean-born Surrealist painter Roberto Matta in New York, where he influenced Jackson Pollock and wrecked Arshile Gorky's marriage. Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles. Sept. 30-Jan. 6. (213-621-2766) www.moca.org. Traveling to the Miami Art Museum, March 22-June 2.

"ART AND HOME: DUTCH INTERIORS IN THE AGE OF REMBRANDT" Inspired, no doubt, by Vermeer fever, this show examines the primal Dutch scene of kitchen and parlor. Pieter de Hooch makes them paradigms of neatness-counts domesticity; Jan Steen turns them into Animal House. Newark Museum of Art. Sept. 30-Jan. 20. (973-596-6550) www
.newarkmuseum.org. Traveling to the Denver Art Museum, March 2-May 22.

* "JOE BRAINARD: A RETROSPECTIVE" A friend of poets, Brainard produced exquisite paintings, Pop Art collages and shrines incorporating Madonnas and Prell shampoo labels. Then he stopped making art and took to reading Victorian novels until his death from AIDS in 1994 at 52. The show is a survey of his brilliantly nonchalant career. P. S. 1 Contemporary Art Center. Sept. 30-Dec. 30. (718-784-2084) www.ps1.org. Traveling to the Donna Bean Fine Art Gallery, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Jan. 22-Feb. 28.

October

"GLASS OF THE SULTANS" Islamic glass from Safavid Iran, Ottoman Turkey and Mughal India empires, with European pieces inspired by Islamic originals. Metropolitan Museum. Oct. 2-Jan. 13. (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org

"THE ART OF MU XIN: LANDSCAPE PAINTINGS AND PRISON NOTES" While under house arrest in China during the late 1970's, Mu Xin created a suite of 33 extraordinary paintings that fused Asian and Western sensibilities. Yale University Art Gallery. Oct. 2-Dec. 9. (203-432-0600) www.yale.edu/artgallery. Traveling to the Smart Museum, University of Chicago, Jan. 24-Mar. 31.

* "THOMAS EAKINS" The great figure painter is honored in his hometown, Philadelphia, with a survey of more than 60 paintings and 120 photographs. His less familiar work in the latter medium can be breathtakingly sensual. Philadelphia Museum of Art. Oct. 4-Jan. 6. Traveling to the Musee d'Orsay in Paris in February, and the Metropolitan Museum, June 18-Sept. 15. (215-763-8100)
www.philamuseum.org

"CAMERA WOMEN" With only 48 artists, this survey of photography by women since the 19th century must qualify as a rough sketch of vast terrain, but perhaps it will turn up new names and lay the groundwork for further research. Art Museum at Princeton University. Oct. 6-Jan. 6. (609-258-5788) webware.princeton
.edu/artmus

* "AELBERT CUYP" This 17th-century Dutch artist with an Italian soul painted portraits and biblical scenes, but he is best known for bathing the bare-boned Netherlandish landscape in a golden-age glow. Lost from view for a century after his death, he is now considered one of the finest painters of his time. National Gallery of Art, Washington. Oct. 7-Jan. 13. (202-737-4215) www.nga.gov. Traveling to the National Gallery, London, and the Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam.

"GREAT MASTERS OF MEXICAN FOLK ART" The exhibition will include more than 1,000 objects created with natural materials and decorated with ingenious designs from across Mexico. Dallas Museum of Art. Oct. 7-Jan. 6. (214-922-1200) www.dm-art.org

"JASPER JOHNS TO JEFF KOONS: FOUR DECADES OF ART FROM THE BROAD COLLECTIONS" A big contemporary collection gets a big show. Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Oct. 7-Jan. 6. (323-857-6522) www.lacma.org. Traveling to the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, March 16-June 3.

"SIGNAC 1863-1935: MASTER NEO-IMPRESSIONIST" Signac's style loosened up as his career progressed, and his colors gained a jewel-like brilliance that greatly impressed Matisse. Metropolitan Museum. Oct. 9-Dec. 30. (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org

"LOOKING FOR MR. FLUXUS: IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF GEORGE MACIUNAS" Young artists from New York and Eastern Europe pay tribute to the Fluxus-meister George Maciunas, a Lithuanian immigrant who, among many other things, helped pioneer SoHo as an art neighborhood. Art in General. Oct. 9-Dec. 22. Traveling to the Contemporary Art Center in Vilnius, Lithuania. (212-219-0473) www.artingeneral.org

"VITAL FORMS: AMERICAN ART IN THE ATOMIC AGE, 1940-1960" Maybe the new defense budget will look like a good idea after seeing this roundup of art related to the cold war era. Catch work by Mark Rothko, Willem de Kooning and Eero Saarinen, then head for the basement. Brooklyn Museum of Art. Oct. 10-Jan. 6. (718-638-5000) www.brooklynart
.org. Traveling to the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, Feb. 15-May 12, and the Frist Center for the Visual Arts, Nashville, June 21-Sept. 15.

* "ONE PLANET UNDER A GROOVE: HIP-HOP AND CONTEMPORARY ART" Organized by Franklin Sirmans and Lydia Yee, this could be the hip-hop show we've been waiting for, or one of them. The cool list of participants includes Jean-Michel Basquiat, David Hammons, Adrian Piper, Erik Parker, Nikki S. Lee, Dario Robleto, Sanford Biggers and Nadine Robinson. Bronx Museum of the Arts. Oct. 11-March 3. (718-681-6000) www.bronxview
.com/museum

"FRED WILSON: OBJECTS AND INSTALLATIONS, 1979-2000" A survey of work by an artist with a sharp critical eye on cultural institutions and the social inequities that make them tick. Fine Arts Gallery at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. Oct. 11-Jan. 12. (410-455-3188)
imda.umbc.edu

"ALBERTO GIACOMETTI" A centennial survey of the work of the Swiss-born artist runs from 1925, the year he gave up naturalistic sculpture, to his death in 1966. His sculptures of attenuated, wraithlike figures became famous as existentialist emblems, but the show will pay equal attention to his paintings and drawings. Museum of Modern Art. Oct. 11-Jan. 8. (212-708-9400) www.moma.org

"BRAZIL: BODY AND SOUL" This sweep through a dynamic and multifaceted South American culture will include Portuguese-inspired Baroque altars, African-influenced religious images and indigenous objects created from the feathers of tropical birds. From there it moves on to the country's innovative version of 20th-century modernism. Guggenheim Museum. Oct. 12-Jan. 27. (212-423-3500) www.guggenheim.org. The story will be brought into the present with "O Fio da Trama/The Thread Unraveled: Contemporary Brazilian Art" at El Museo del Barrio. Oct. 12-Feb. 3. (212-831-7272) www.elmuseo.org

* "MONKS AND MERCHANTS: SILK ROAD TREASURES FROM NORTHWEST CHINA, 4TH-7TH CENTURIES" The Asia Society inaugurates its freshly revamped Park Avenue headquarters with a bunch of shows, among them "Monks and Merchants," which should be a dazzler. Oct. 13-Jan. 6. Also on view: eight site-specific commissions by contemporary Asian and Asian-American artists, including Heri Dono, Nilima Sheikh and Vong Phaophanit. (212-288-6400)
www.asiasociety.org

"ZERO TO INFINITY: ARTE POVERA 1962-1972" A survey, originating at the Tate in London, of a poetic Italian art movement that blended Minimalism, Conceptualism and organic materials like earth, wax and wool. Walker Art Center, Minneapolis. Oct. 13-Jan. 13. (612-375-7651) www.walkerart.org. Traveling to the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, March 10-Aug. 11.

"JUAN MUNOZ" The dreamlike figurative tableaus by the Spanish artist, who died last month at the age of 48, are ghost-play versions of history and can be seen in his first retrospective. Hirshhorn Museum, Washington. Oct. 16-Jan. 13. (202-357-3091) www.si.edu/hirshhorn. Traveling to the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, April 22-July 28.

"ELLEN GALLAGHER" This American painter, who weaves Minimalism and racist stereotypes together in increasingly complicated ways, has two exhibitions. The first is at the Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston. Oct. 17-Dec. 31. (617- 266-5152) www.icaboston. Traveling to the Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia, March 2-April 28. The second is at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, San Francisco. Nov. 17-Jan. 27. (415-978-2787) www.yerbabuenaarts.org. Traveling to the Drawing Center, March 2-April 6.

"INTO THE LIGHT: THE PROJECTED IMAGE IN AMERICAN ART" This sampling of early film, video and slide installations from the 1960's and 70's should be fascinating. The artists -- including Joan Jonas, Bruce Nauman, Yoko Ono and Andy Warhol -- are canonical, but much of the work hasn't been seen in decades. Whitney Museum of American Art. Oct. 18-Jan. 27. (212-570-3676) www.whitney.org

" 'TREASURY OF THE WORLD': JEWELED ARTS OF INDIA IN THE AGE OF THE MUGHALS" The Mughal emperors of India had more gems than they knew what do do with, so they stuck them on cups, daggers, crowns. Even their jewelry boxes were studded with jewels. Metropolitan Museum. Oct. 18-Jan. 13. (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org. Traveling to the Cleveland Museum of Art, Feb. 24-May 19; the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.

"DESIRE AND DEVOTION: ART FROM INDIA, NEPAL AND TIBET IN THE JOHN AND BERTHE FORD COLLECTION" The Walters Gallery in Baltimore reopens in October after a renovation with a reinstalled collection and this grand exhibition. Oct. 20-Jan. 13. Traveling to the Santa Barbara Museum of Art, Calif., March 2-May 26. The Museum has also commissioned work for the exterior of its building from Dennis Adams, whose piece will be in place on Oct. 20. (410-547-9000) www.thewalters.org

"WORD PLAY: INSTALLATION ART BY XU BING" This Chinese-born artist invents languages based on Chinese-style characters and turns the results into gigantic books and interactive digital programs. Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Washington. Oct. 21-Jan. 13. (202-357-4880) www.si.edu/asia

"EVERYBODY NOW: THE CROWD IN CONTEMPORARY ART" This show looks at the way in which "the masses" are envisioned today. Among the artists jammed into the exhibition space will be Andreas Gursky, Andrea Bowers, Daniel Lefcourt and Do-Ho Suh. The talented art critic Katy Siegel will be in charge of crowd control as curator. The Bertha and Karl Leubsdorf Art Gallery at Hunter College. Oct. 25-Dec. 8. (212-772-4991) sapientia
.hunter.cuny.edu/art/gallery
/gallery.html

"LIVING IN COLOR; THE ART OF HIDEO DATE" A retrospective survey of paintings by a Japanese-born American artist, who was incarcerated in a United States internment camp during World War II. Japanese American National Museum, Los Angeles. Oct. 27-April 21. (213-625-0414) www.janm.org

"PICASSO: THE ARTIST'S STUDIO" Here's your Picasso fix, organized by the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford. The title says it all: some 50 paintings and drawings about life in the studio, where he spent a lot of time. Cleveland Museum of Art. Oct. 28-Jan. 6. (216-421-7350) www.clemusart.com

"TRANSLATED ACTS" Thirty contemporary artists and art collectives from Japan, Korea, Taiwan and China will be showcased in this exhibition of Asian performance and body art from the last decade. Queens Museum of Art. Oct. 28-Feb. 17. (718-592-9700) www.queensmuse.org

* "HEAVENLY VISIONS: SHAKER GIFT DRAWINGS AND GIFT SONGS" The Shakers believed that "gift drawings," with their intricate patterns and minuscule texts, were messages channeled from the world beyond. More than 100 examples. Drawing Center. Oct. 31-Dec. 15. (212-219-2166) www.drawingcenter.org

November

"DREAM STREET: W. EUGENE SMITH'S PITTSBURGH PHOTOGRAPHS" In 1955, the photographer went to Pittsburgh for a three-week assignment and stayed for a year, taking more than 13,000 pictures of an industrial town at the height of its productive power. Some 200 photographs will be on view. Carnegie Museum of Art, Pittsburgh. Nov. 3-Feb. 10. (412-622-3131) www.cmoa.org. Traveling to the International Center of Photography, March 29-June 16.

"GRAND LYRICIST: THE ART OF ELMER BISCHOFF" Bischoff was one of a group of painters in San Francisco in the 1950's and 60's -- Richard Diebenkorn and David Park were others -- who applied an Abstract Expressionist brush style to figurative painting. Oakland Museum of California. Nov. 3-Jan. 13. (888-625-6873) www.museumca.org. Traveling to the Orange County Museum of Art, Newport Beach, Calif., Feb. 15-June 2.

"LUCA GIORDANO" From Naples, Giordano (1634-1705) was nicknamed Luca fa presto (Luke works fast) because of his speed of production. Adept at mimicking other artists, he developed a luminous Baroque-to-Rococo style of his own in religious and mythological scenes. A survey of 50 paintings. Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Nov. 4-Jan. 20. (323-857-6522) www.lacma.org

* "OVER THE LINE: THE ART AND LIFE OF JACOB LAWRENCE" A retrospective of the work of one of America's great modernist history painters, who worked in Harlem and Africa and took as his epic subject the people of the African diaspora living in the New World. Whitney Museum. Nov. 8-Feb. 3. (212-570-3676) www.whitney.org

"NEW WORLDS: GERMAN AND AUSTRIAN ART, 1890-1940" This is the inaugural offering at Neue Galerie, a new Manhattan museum which will focus on modern German and Austrian work. The show is drawn from a collection put together by the collector Ronald J. Lauder and the late dealer Serge Sabarsky, and Schiele, Kokoschka and Max Beckmann are among its stars. Nov. 9-Feb. 18. (212-628-6200) www.neuegalerie.org

"OPTICAL PARABLES: MANUEL ALVAREZ BRAVO" A survey of more than 100 of the photographer's pictures along with work by Tina Modotti, Paul Strand and Edward Weston. J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, Nov. 13-Feb. 17. (310-440-7300) www.getty.edu

"RICCI ALBENDA" For MOMA's "Projects" series, one of New York's most ambitious and inventive young artists will reshape gallery walls to create a perceptually destabilizing sculptural environment. Museum of Modern Art. Nov. 16-Jan. 22 (212-708-9400) www.moma.org

"THE METAL PARTY, BAUHAUS SCHOOL (FEBRUARY 9, 1929), 2000" Josiah McElheny, whose glass objects were a hit at the last Whitney Biennial, recreates a German Bauhaus event called the Metal Party in which students and faculty wore reflective costumes and danced in a mirrored room. Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, San Francisco. Nov. 17-Jan. 27. (415-978-2710)
www.yerbabuenaarts.org.

"THE COLOR YELLOW: BEAUFORD DELANEY" The focus is on a single color, symbolizing light, healing and redemption, that recurred in work by this African-American painter. High Museum of Art, Atlanta. Nov. 17-Feb. 10. (404-733-4437) www.high.org

"PRIMAL VISIONS: ALBERT BIERSTADT 'DISCOVERS' AMERICA, 1859-1893" This show will be the opening exhibition when the Montclair Art Museum in New Jersey cuts the ribbon on its new wing. A 20-painting survey of paintings by the Hudson River School mystic George Inness, a Montclair resident, will also be on view. Montclair Art Museum. Nov. 16-Feb. 3. (973-746-5555) www.montclair
-art.com

"ETERNAL EGYPT: MASTERWORKS OF ANCIENT ART FROM THE BRITISH MUSEUM" This traveling show should have some pretty fabulous items, and it's visiting a museum with some fine Egyptian material of its own. Brooklyn Museum of Art. Nov. 23-Feb. 24. (718-638-5000) www.brooklynart.org

December

"LIZ LARNER" This California artist is best known for her room-filling sculptural installations, ofen made of vinyl and chains. A survey of 15 years of work. Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, Dec. 2-March 10. (213-621-2766)
www.moca.org

"EXTREME BEAUTY: THE BODY TRANSFORMED" Harold Korda, who turned the Guggenheim into an Armani boutique last spring, uses historical material in this exhibition at the Met's Costume Institute to demonstrate how fashion has teased and tortured the human form into outlandish shapes over the centuries. Metropolitan Museum. Dec. 6-March 3. (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org

"RICHARD TUTTLE" A subtle visionary makes a selection from his own work of the past three decades, including painted constructions he has not previously shown. Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia. Dec. 8-Feb. 10. (215-898-5911) www.icaphila.org

* "AMERICAN ANTHEM" This is the title of the exhibitions that will inaugurate the spanking-new West 53rd Street home of the American Folk Art Museum. All 400 objects from the Ralph Esmerian collection, a gift to the museum, will be on display, as will paintings from the museum's newly acquired collection of work by Henry Darger, who has become an Outsider luminary since the museum presented him in a memorable one-man show a few years ago. American Folk Art Museum. Dec. 11-May. (212-595-9533) www.folkartmuseum.org

"SPLENDID ISOLATION: ART OF EASTER ISLAND" The Kon-Tiki crew thought it "the loneliest little island in the world" when they landed on Easter Island in the 1950's. But the place has an international reputation thanks to the monolithic stone heads left behind by long-vanished inhabitants. No giant heads in this show, but still much of interest in items dating from the 13th to 19th centuries. Metropolitan Museum. Dec. 12-Aug. 4. (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org

"VITO ACCONCI: ACTS OF ARCHITECTURE" Around two dozen major works in a survey of this important American artist's work since 1980. Miami Art Museum. Dec. 14-March 3. (305-375-3000) www.miamiartmuseum.org. Traveling to the Milwaukee Art Museum, March 22-May 19.

"JANE HAMMOND: THE ASHBERY COLLABORATION" The artist asked the poet John Ashbery to provide titles for 20 paintings before she had actually done them. The results, like Mr. Ashbery's poetry, are free-associative and meticulously worked, zany and classically poised. Cleveland Center for Contemporary Art, Dec. 14-Mar. 3. (216-421-7350) www.clemusart.com

"SPECTACULAR DISPLAY: THE ART OF NKANU INITIATION RITUALS" Carved high-relief panels, masks and costumes associated with coming-of-age rituals among the Nkanu peoples of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. National Museum of African Art, Washington. Dec. 16-Mar. 3. (212-356-4600) www.si.edu/nmafa

January

"THE FIRST SNAPSHOTS" You may want to haul out the family scrapbook after seeing this show, which examines early work by amateur photographers after the introduction of the first Kodak camera in 1888. The material is drawn from the George Eastman House in Rochester. International Center of Photography. Jan. 11-March 17. (212-860-1777)
www.icp.org

"FENG MENGBO" This bright young Chinese video artist had a gallery show in Manhattan a few years ago but hasn't appeared in many of the group shows that have cropped up since, so it will be interesting to see what he's up to with interactive Internet work that links the United States to China. Renaissance Society at the University of Chicago. Jan. 13-Feb. 24. (773-702-8670)
www.renaissancesociety.org

"OUTER AND INNER SPACE: A VIDEO EXHIBITION IN THREE PARTS" This show presents the work of young international video artists in three eight-week installments: Pipilotti Rist (Jan. 19-March 17), Shirin Neshat (April 6-June 2) and Jane and Louise Wilson (June 22-Aug. 18). Each will be placed in the context of classical video work by Martha Rosler, Joan Jonas, Bruce Nauman and others. Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond. (804-204-2700) www.vmfa.state.va.us. A concurrent group show of young video artists, including Jeremy Blake and Jennifer Steinkamp, will be at the Anderson Gallery of Virginia Commonwealth University, Jan. 18-March 10. (804-828-1522) www.vcu.edu/artweb/gallery

"SECRET GAMES: WENDY EWALD COLLABORATIVE WORKS WITH CHILDREN, 1969-99" A photographer who encourages children to make photographs of their environment and to physically alter her own negatives, Ms. Ewald is having a three-decade retrospective. Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington. Jan. 19-April 8. (202-639-1700) www.corcoran.org

"SHARON ELLIS" This Los Angeles artist produces labor-intensive paintings of trippy flowers and apocalyptic skies. Her show presents 23 pieces from the last 10 years. Long Beach Museum of Art, Calif. Jan. 20-March 10. (562-439-2119) www.lbma.org

"COSME TURA AND FERRARA: A FORGOTTEN RENAISSANCE" A small exhibition looking at the 15th-century Renaissance painter Cosme Tura and his role as creator of a distinctive court style in Ferrara. Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Boston. Jan. 30-May 12. (617-566-1401) www.gardnermuseum.org

February

"SURREALISM: DESIRE UNBOUND" This survey comes from the Tate Gallery in London and casts a wide net over Surrealism, the wild-and-crazy international art and literary movement. It will pay particular attention to the steamier, not to say sleazier, side of a phenomenon that had complex intellectual roots. Metropolitan Museum. Early February through early May. (212-535-7710)
www.metmuseum.org

"AGNES MARTIN" Paintings from the last decade by an abstract painter who is now 90. Menil Collection, Houston. Feb. 1-May 26. (713- 525-9404) www.menil.org

* "EVA HESSE: A RETROSPECTIVE" Elizabeth Sussman has organized this retrospective of the artist Eva Hesse, who worked hard, thought big and died young. Some 200 works, from early paintings to late sculptures, will be brought together, along with a wealth of scholarship on a hugely influential American artist of the 1960's. San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Feb. 2-May 19. (415-357-4000) www.sfmoma. Traveling to the Whitney in November.

"TRACEY MOFFAT" Ms. Moffat works in narrative series, many of which are set in a fictional version of her native Australia and deal with its complex past and ethnic mix. Josyln Art Museum, Omaha. Feb. 2-Mar. 24. (402-342-3300) www.joslyn.org

"LOOKING FORWARD/LOOKING BLACK: RACE IN AMERICAN ART" Feelings run high about the revived use of racial stereotypes in contemporary art, often by African-American artists. This show tackles the issue directly with work by Kara Walker, Renee Cox and Robert Colescott, among others. Baltimore Museum of Art. Feb. 6-May 5. (410-396-7100)
www.artbma.org

"CIRCLES OF REFLECTION: THE CARTER COLLECTION OF CHINESE BRONZE MIRRORS" The mirrors date from the Warring States period to the Qing dynasty -- about 2,500 years -- and come from the Cleveland Museum of Art. China Institute Gallery. Feb. 2-June 2. (212-744-8181) www.chinainstitute.org

"AFTER 'THE SCREAM': THE LATE WORK OF EDVARD MUNCH" There's no substitute for experiencing Edvard Munch's paintings in mid-winter in his native Norway, but second best is to see a major selection of his work in this country from the collection of the Munch-Museet in Oslo. High Museum, Atlanta. Feb. 9-May 5. (404-733-4437) www.high.org

"SEEING AND BELIEVING: THE ART OF NANCY BURSON" Some of the portraits taken by the artist have been computer altered, others have not, and it's often hard to tell the difference. Grey Art Gallery, New York University. Feb. 12-April 20. (212-998-6780) www.nyu.edu/greyart

* "GERHARD RICHTER: 40 YEARS OF PAINTING" The first full-scale New York survey devoted to the international stars of postwar German art has been organized by the curator Robert Storr. Museum of Modern Art. Feb. 14-May 21. (212-708-9400) www.moma.org. Traveling to Chicago, San Francisco, Washington and Atlanta.

"PIERRE MATISSE AND HIS ARTISTS" Pierre Matisse, son of Henri Matisse, was a history-shaping dealer in modernist art. The archives of his gallery, which operated from 1931 to 1989, came to the Pierpont Morgan Library, and this is the first time a substantial selection will go on view, with works by Calder, Chagall, Giacometti, Miro and Tanguy. Morgan Library. Feb. 14-May 19. (212-685-0610) www.morganlibrary.org

"ORAZIO AND ARTEMISIA GENTILESCHI: FATHER AND DAUGHTER PAINTERS IN BAROQUE ITALY" Orazio was a gifted follower of Caravaggio who had an uninterruptedly successful career in Italy and Rome. Artemisia, a teenage rape victim and a fiercely independent adult, developed her own particularly adamant and thearical Caravaggesque style: when one of her Judiths decapitates Holofernes, she really means business. Metropolitan Museum. Feb. 14-May 12. (212-535-7710) www.metmuseum.org. Traveling to the St. Louis Art Museum.

"MATTHEW BARNEY: THE CREMASTER CYCLE" The artist's epic five-part film project will be accompanied by related sculptures, photographs and drawings. The premier of the final installment of the cycle will take place in conjunction with the show. Guggenheim Museum. Feb. 15-May 5. (212-423-3500) www.guggenheim.org

"GARY SIMMONS" Known for his deftly wrought drawings and sculptures on the subject of racism and black identity, the artist presents new work in this show organized by the curator Thelma Golden. Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. Feb. 16-May 26. (312-280-2660)
www.mcachicago.org

"FRIDA KAHLO, DIEGO RIVERA AND 20TH CENTURY MEXICAN ART" This exhibition will include more than 100 works from the Jacques and Natasha Gelman Collection. Ten paintings by Kahlo will be included, along with work by Jose Clemente Orozco and David Alfaro Siqueiros. El Museo del Barrio. Feb. 24-June 16. (212-831-7272) www.elmuseo.org

March

* WHITNEY BIENNIAL By tradition, critical knives are sharpened well before this show of new art is even a gleam in the curator's eye. This year, the Whitney's new curator of contemporary art, Lawrence Rinder, is in charge. He's smart; his interests are eclectic and -- this is a very good thing -- unpredictable. Let's just hope his boss leaves him alone to do his thing. Whitney Museum. March 7-May. (212-570-3676) www.whitney.org

"EXCHANGE AND TRANSFORMATION" A tour of avant-garde movements in Czechoslovakia, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania and the former Yugoslavia during the early years of the 20th century when cultural exchanges were frequent. Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth. March 10-June 2. www.kimbellart.org

"JACK PIERSON" This young American artist has been in a holding pattern for awhile now. But there's something distinctive going on in his laid-back, yearning work, and a 10-year survey, which will be put together as a single installation, may clarify it. Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami. March 14-June 30. (305-893-6211) www.mocanomi.org

* "BARTOLOME ESTEBAN MURILLO (1617-1682): PAINTNGS FROM AMERICAN COLLECTIONS" The work of the Spanish Baroque painter Murillo has a reputation for being fluff. But he was an imaginative artist with a sure instinct for the psychology of popular devotion and a sovereign painterly touch. This show will present 35 works from American collections. Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth. March 10-June 2. (817-332-8451) www.kimbellart.org

"TRACEY EMIN" This buzzy Y.B.A. (Young British Artist) makes the tabloids in London, but her New York gallery debut a few seasons ago looked tired. Maybe she'll deliver for her first United States museum solo show. Museum of Art, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. March 13-June 15. (954-525-5500) www.museumofart.org

"SUE WILLIAMS" A first solo museum show for this gifted New York painter who moved from cartoon violence to cool, linear 50's-ish abstraction, implying links between the two. Palm Beach Institute of Contemporary Art, Lakeworth, Fla. March 16-June 16. (561-582-0006) www.palmbeachica.org

"MIRRORING EVIL: NAZI IMAGERY/RECENT ART" While much art about the Holocaust centers on images of its victims, the 13 contemporary artists in the exhibition use images associated with its perpetrators to explore the nature of evil. Jewish Museum. March 17.-June 30. (212-423-3200) www.thejewishmuseum.org

* "BARNETT NEWMAN" It has been awhile since anyone has taken a hard look at this American abstract artist, who prefigured Minimalism and was, through his writing and alert, loquacious personality, one of the theoretical shapers of postwar art. Ann Temkin has organized the show. Philadelphia Museum of Art. March 24-July 7. (215-763-8100) www.philamuseum.org.
Traveling to the Tate Modern in London, Sept. 19-Jan. 5, 2003.

April

"MUNAKATA SHIKO (1903-75)" This Japanese artist synthesized Western and Japanese styles in his prints and paintings, as seen in this first comprehensive United States retrospective. Los Angeles County Museum of Art. April 4-June 30. (323-857-6522) www.lacma.org

"OH MONA!" The changes rung by contemporary artists and pop culture on one of the classics of Western art, Leonardo da Vinci's "Mona Lisa," are explored in this exhibition. Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. (607-255-6464)
www.museum.cornell.edu

* "PIETER SAENREDAM" This 17th-century Utrecht painter turned the church interiors of his native city into a form of proto-modernist abstraction, with clean lines, spotless surfaces, a white-to-beige palette and and diffuse, sober light. Preparatory sketches and perspectival studies accompany a show of paintings. J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles. April 16-July 7. (310-440-7300) www.getty.edu

"SHOW PEOPLE: FIVE DOWNTOWN DIRECTORS AND THE PLAY OF TIME" An inspired idea for an exhibition. It offers a capsule history, using photographs, drawings and sculptures, of New York's visually stunning experimental theater through some of its most illustrious practitioners, including Richard Foreman, Robert Wilson, Elizabeth LeCompte of the Wooster Group and Peter Schumann of the incomparable Bread and Puppet Theater. Exit Art/The First World. April 20-June 29. (212-966-7745)
www.exitart.org

"EDWIN DICKINSON: DREAMS AND REALITIES" Dickinson (1881-1978) fits into no easy category. His smoky intersections of figures and abstract planes have the feeling of visions rising up at a seance. This is his first retrospective in two decades. Albright-Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo. April 26-July 14. (716-882-8700) www.albrightknox.org

"NEW YORK: CAPITAL OF PHOTOGRAPHY" This survey looks at the Big Apple through the eyes of some 50 artists and records its cycles of ripening and decay. Organized by the critic and photographer Max Kozloff. Jewish Museum. April 28-Sept. 29. (212-423-3200)
www.thejewishmuseum.org

May

"PARIS-NEW YORK-HOLLYWOOD: THE ART OF LARRY RIVERS" A retrospective of the post-old master, proto-Pop figurative painter. Corcoran Gallery, Washington. May 18-July 22. (202-639-1700) www.corcoran.org

"SELECTIONS FROM THE COCKETTES ARCHIVES" The Cockettes were the first gender-bending drag theater troupe to emerge from the San Francisco hippie and gay scene of the 1960's. The show will offer posters, photographs, costumes and props from "Tinsel Tarts in a Hot Coma." Simultaneously, the exhibition "Dyke Action Machine!" will gather a decade's worth of lesbian activist art by the photographer Sue Schaffner and the painter Carrie Moyer. Dynamite stuff. Yerba Buena Center, San Francisco. May 4-July 14. (415-978-2710)
www.yerbabuenaarts.org

"GREUZE THE DRAFTSMAN" The work of Jean-Baptiste Greuze (1725-1805) veers between bathetic genre scenes and soft porn, but he had one of the smoothest draftman's hands of his time, which makes up for a lot, at least to his fans. If you're one of them, catch this show of his drawings. Frick Collection. May 14-Aug. 4. (212-288-0700) www.frick.org

"JOSE ANTONIO HERNANDEZ-DIEZ" This installation artist from Venezuela uses sardonic humor, commercial goods and cultural cliches to suggest the clash of the raw and the processed in a global economy. New Museum of Contemporary Art. May 16-Aug. 11. (212-219-1222) www.newmuseum.org

* "CHARLES LEDRAY" Mr. Ledray's wonderful gender-blending work is at once pixilated and grim: he has sewn doll-size sets of clothing to illustrate American male stereotypes and has carved doll-house furniture from human bone. This show is a survey of his work since 1989. Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia. May 18-July 14. (215-898-5911) www.icaphila.org. Traveling to Chicago, San Francisco and Seattle.

"DONALD MOFFETT: WHAT BARBARA JORDAN WORE" A New York-based artist and a former member of the activist collective Gran Fury, Mr. Moffett blends a quiet look with a powerful content. This show will include new paintings and an audio piece inspired by a progressive American politician. Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. May 26-Oct. 20. (312-280-2660) www.mcachicago.org

"KAZIMIR MALEVICH: SUPREMATISM" and "ART AND THE HOLY IMAGE: THE RISE OF RUSSIAN ICON PAINTING, 14TH THROUGH 16TH CENTURIES" One show will focus on the 20th-century Russian modernist whose abstract Suprematist work was the secular equivalent of religious painting. The other is devoted to a display of gold-glinting paintings on loan from Russian institutions. Guggenheim Museum. May 30-Sept. 4. (212-423-3500) www.guggenheim.org

June

* "MICHIEL SWEERTS" A Flemish contemporary of Rembrandt, Sweerts painted genre scenes and portraits with a similarly shadowy palette but gave the work an aura of sad, delicate reticence. Somewhere, he went emotionally off track, sailed to Asia as a missionary and died, mad as a hatter, in India. California Palace of the Legion of Honor, San Francisco. June 8-Aug. 25. (415-863-3330) www.thinker.org

"SHOW ME THE MONEY: THE DOLLAR AS ART" Perhaps this should have been subtitled "The Truth Show." Palm Springs Desert Museum, Calif. June 19-Sept. 15. (760-325-7186) www.psmuseum.org

"FROM POP TO NOW: SELECTIONS FROM THE SONNABEND COLLECTION" Ileana Sonnabend, the art dealer, and her late husband, Michael, put together an extraordinary collection of postwar art, which will be on view at an attractive new museum. Tang Teaching Museum at Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs. N.Y. June 23-Sept. 22. (518-580-8080) www.skidmore.edu/tang

"IMAGES OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN LIFE" Pictures ranging from 19th-century tintypes to 1950's snapshots will be gathered to suggest the way in which African-Americans have defined their own image with the camera. Many of the photographs were made at a time when most images of blacks in popular culture were based on racial stereotypes. International Center of Photography. June 28-Sept. 1. (212-860-1777) www.icp.org

"KLIMT LANDSCAPES" Best known for his sensual, Byzantine paintings of women, the Viennese painter Gustav Klimt also produced the landscapes that are the focus of this summer exhibition. Clarke Institute, Williamstown, Mass. June 30-Oct. 13, 2003 (413-458-9545)
www.clarkart.edu

Compiled with the assistance of Anna Bahney.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An untitled photograph, 1956-57, by Seydou Keita is currently at the Fogg Museum in Cambridge, Mass. (Fogg Art Museum); "The Mass at Dordrecht," around 1650, by Aelbert Cuyp, will be at the National Gallery of Art in Washington starting in October. (National Gallery of Art, Washington) (pg. 78); "Chartres," a 1969 acrylic on canvas by the American abstract artist Barnett Newman, will be at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in March. (Daros Services AG, Zurich); "Sans II," a 1968 fiberglass work by Eva Hesse, will be in a retrospective of her work at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in February. (San Francisco Museum of Modern Art) (pg. 80); Manuel Alvarez Bravo's "Daughter of the Dancers/Muchachita!" (1933) will be on view in "Optical Parables" at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles starting in November. (J. Paul Getty Museum) (pg. 88) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTS (77%) ART 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (84%)

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (77%); MALI (72%); NIGERIA (55%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



247 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: COVER STORY; 
A Series Aspires to a Continent's Sweep

BYLINE:  By FLETCHER ROBERTS 

 BODY:
FOR Jennifer Lawson, the making of "Africa," an eight-part, eight-hour documentary that begins tonight on Channel 13, was an opportunity for self-discovery. She asked herself questions that most black Americans curious about their African ancestry have at one time asked themselves: "What does it mean to be African, and what are the things that make us distinctly who we are?" What she discovered was that she shared a kinship, as she put it, "a kind of identification with all parts of the continent."
 "It was really not skin color, not language, not facial features but our humanity," said Ms. Lawson, 55, a co-executive producer of the series. That insight formed the intellectual underpinning for the series. 
 Africa is a vast continent - three times the size of the United States - with 700 million people, more than 50 countries and a thousand different ethnic groups. It is one of the most complex and least understood regions of the world. The news media have often depicted it, in Ms. Lawson's words, as "a place with weird diseases like Ebola or places where people mutilate their children."
 The series represents an attempt to get beyond the statistics and calamities, "to put a human face on Africa," she said. From Addis Ababa to Zanzibar, the filmmakers captured the stories of ordinary Africans, their hopes and dreams as they lived their daily lives, often overcoming unimaginable hardship.
 A pregnant woman who runs a hair salon in Nairobi, Kenya, crosses the savanna so that her second child can begin life on her native Kikuyu soil. A 9-year-old boy, his father and his uncle travel by camel hundreds of miles across the Sahara from their home in Niger in search of salt, a commodity once as precious as gold. A 16-year-old Ethiopian boy studies to become a priest, hoping that he will be chosen to take part in a procession in which replicas of the Ten Commandments are carried through the city. A 26-year-old Johannesburg mine worker - the only woman in a work force of 5,000 - prepares for an exam that could make her the first woman to become a mine manager in South Africa.
 Ms. Lawson says the stories were selected to depict not only the cultural diversity of Africa but also to show how Africans have found ways, under even the most forbidding circumstances, "to survive and thrive."
 "That's an experience that I think we can all identify with," she said "It's parents wanting a better education for their children. It's people wanting a bigger home for their families."
 The idea for the series grew out of Ms. Lawson's experience living in Tanzania in the early 1970's. She was working as an illustrator for a small publishing house in Washington that became involved in a project with similar company in Tanzania. Her company needed to send someone there, and she took the job, "somewhat on a whim," she said. While in East Africa, she worked with a number of African scholars and writers, many of whom were living in exile in Tanzania, and was struck by the stories about Africa and its history that they told her. "I felt, my goodness, we never hear these stories back in the States," she said.
 She knew she wanted to share those stories with a wider audience, and realizing that television was a more far-reaching medium than books, she decided a career change was in order. When she returned to the United States, she enrolled in a graduate program in film at Columbia University. After film school, she landed a job in public broadcasting, eventually becoming the executive vice president for programming and promotion services at PBS. But in 1995, she decided that it was time to do what she had gotten into television to do in the first place. So she began developing what ultimately became "Africa."
 Her first step was to get on the train to New York to enlist the help of Fred Kaufman, executive producer of the highly acclaimed "Nature" series. He enthusiastically supported the project, began to help Ms. Lawson shape her ideas and became a co-executive producer of "Africa."
 When not enmeshed in research, Ms. Lawson spent her time doing what has become the bane of documentary filmmakers: fun-raising. Ultimately, she said, they raised more than $8 million for the series. "We wanted it to be a big, glorious series," she said. "We felt that the continent deserved that."
 The actual shooting began in 1998 and took two years to complete. The film crews, which were based in Bristol, England, made a total of 57 trips to Africa, often spending months at a time on location. Ms. Lawson says she made periodic trips to Africa, but during much of the filming she remained in Washington, keeping in contact with crews in the field via e-mail. Every step of the process, from initial concepts to final cuts, she said, was vetted by an advisory panel of experts that included Mohamed Hyder, the Kenyan zoologist, filmmaker and author, and Nakanyike Musisi, the director of the Makerere Institute of Social Research at Makerre University, Kampala, Uganda, who has written extensively on African women in history. ("Africa" is a production of WNET's "Nature" series and National Geographic Television, two of the most respected names in the field.)
 For those who want to explore the subject further, the series like most such high-budget projects these days, comes with a full complement of spinoffs, including a companion book by the British author John Reader, a video, a CD, a teacher's guide and two Web sites (www.pbs.org/africa and www. nationalgeographic.com/africa).
 The Sahel, the Swahili Coast, Serengeti, Sahara - the names are redolent of the majesty and mystery of Africa, part of a centuries0old conversaton between its people and the land. As Ms. Lawson put it, "The land was the one thing that I could say with certainty that all Africans shared."
 And it is history that they share with the rest of mankind. Near the end of the first episode, the narrator, the actor Joe Morton, invokes a Kikuyu proverb, "This land is the mother to us all."

GRAPHIC: Photos: On the cover: Kebkab Wube Wodemariam, a 16-year-old Ethiopian, copies out a page of scriptures with the help of Liku, his older brother. (Michael Lewis)(pg. 1); Men of Mali, above, and Alice Wangui, below, a hair salon owner in Nairobi, Kenya, with her son, Scott.; Xoliswa Vanda, above left, training in Johannesburg to become the first black woman gold mine manager in South Africa; Ibouchi, left, crossing the Sahara desert with his 9-year-old nephew in search of salt; and, above, the saltworks at Bilma, Niger. (Photographs by Michael Lewis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (87%); CHILDREN (87%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); FAMILY (76%); WOMEN (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); TROPICAL DISEASES (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); MINE WORKERS (65%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (63%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TELEVISION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: WNET (CHANNEL 13) 

PERSON: ROBERTS, FLETCHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%) SAHARA DESERT (92%) AFRICA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); KENYA (91%); ETHIOPIA (91%); NIGER (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); MALI (79%) AFRICA

TITLE: AFRICA (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



248 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Lisa Frankenberg, Jerome Leshne

 BODY:
Lisa Lauren Frankenberg and Jerome Jay Leshne were married by Rabbi Arnold Turetsky at the Harvard Club in New York last evening.
 The bride, 33, will continue to use her name professionally. 
Until March, she worked in New York for The Wall Street Journal Online as the executive director for international sales and marketing. She is an owner and the president and publisher of The Prague Post, a newspaper published in English in the Czech Republic. The bride is a founder of Bejt Praha, a nonprofit organization for the promotion of Judaism in the Czech Republic. She graduated with high honors from the University of California at Santa Barbara and received an M.B.A. from Harvard. Her parents, Natalie and Julian Frankenberg, live in Champaign, Ill. 
 The bridegroom, 43, was until July the vice president of investor relations for Dow Jones & Company in New York. He graduated from the University of Massachusetts, and received a master's degree in economics from the University of Michigan and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago. He is a son of Janet and Seymour Leshne of Boynton Beach, Fla. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); PUBLISHING (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RELIGION (54%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (84%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: FRANKENBERG, LISA LAUREN; LESHNE, JEROME JAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (70%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (53%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



249 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Stock BasketsAim for the Mainstream

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
WHEN dot-com start-ups began offering investors low-cost ways to create and manage their own stock funds last year, the mutual fund industry confronted what could turn out to be its biggest competitive threat since the advent of online trading.
 The fund industry's main trade group, the Investment Company Institute, responded by demanding that the Securities and Exchange Commission regulate these new investment vehicles, called folios or baskets, as if they were mutual funds. After reviewing the fund industry's arguments, the commission said two weeks ago that these products were different enough from mutual funds not to warrant such regulation. 
 The S.E.C. decision opens the way for big financial services companies to enter the personalized stock fund arena in earnest. And some firms are moving rapidly. Quick & Reilly, the brokerage arm of FleetBoston Financial, plans to join forces with Foliofn, the company that first introduced online trading of baskets of stocks last year. And Fidelity Investments began offering its own version of folios through its online brokerage operation this summer. 
But the demand for these products has been lower than their creators had hoped, and other companies are taking a more cautious approach. Part of the problem is the rocky stock market and the sharp decline in online trading. But the products are complex, and their benefits can be difficult to explain. Netfolio, a purveyor of portfolios that started last year, has decided to stop offering services to individuals.
But even if the prospects for a huge jump in folio investing look dim for the short term, there is evidence that folios will be offered by a range of major financial companies in coming years.
Jaime Punishill, an analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., is convinced that stock baskets will be a staple of brokerage accounts and retirement savings plans. "These baskets are just a better way of putting together a portfolio of individual securities," he said. "There's no two ways about it."
John Collins, a spokesman for the mutual fund trade group, declined to comment on whether folios posed a threat to the industry. Certainly, Quick & Reilly has concluded that it is time to establish a beachhead in the marketplace. For a fee, the firm plans to provide its customers with online access to some of Foliofn's services starting next month, including some preselected baskets of stocks, said Donald E. Froude, president and chief executive of Quick & Reilly.
In their current form, folios are collections of as many as 50 stocks that investors can assemble themselves or buy preselected by an online brokerage firm. Unlike mutual funds, folios give investors the power to make changes by selling stocks and replacing them with different ones. For an annual fee starting at $295 a year, Foliofn customers can choose stocks for their folios and make changes as often as they want without paying extra commissions. By timing the trades themselves, they can control the tax consequences, a major advantage over many mutual funds.
But at this point, anyway, the innovation is hardly sweeping the marketplace. Netfolio, a purveyor of folios started by James P. O'Shaughnessy, a money manager and author of popular investing guides, decided last week to stop doing business with individual investors. Its retail operation had started only in March. People close to the operations of Netfolio said Mr. O'Shaughnessy has been approached by major securities firms about teaming up with or acquiring Netfolio. The big firms are interested in offering folios to corporations for their employee savings plans, as well as to individual brokerage customers. 
Some competitors are already a step ahead of them. In Fidelity's version of folios, for an initial investment of $10,000, an investor can pick 5 to 50 securities for each basket in his account. The firm says it also intends to offer preselected baskets in the months ahead. And the E*Trade Group, the large online brokerage firm, has announced plans to offer baskets of stocks, including some chosen by Standard & Poor's, but the introduction has been delayed until the end of this month. E*Trade said that Standard & Poor's would design 21 baskets, some based on its market indexes and others confined to particular sectors or to investing styles.
THE steep slump in trading by individuals has slowed the growth of the business. The independent companies that have marketed folios as an alternative to owning mutual funds or individual stocks have struggled as interest from customers and financial backers has waned. The drop-off in online trading "only goes to reinforce the conclusion that baskets and basket trading would be best suited within a brokerage environment," Mr. Punishill said.
Unable to persuade any venture capitalists or private-equity investors to pump more money into his company, Mr. O'Shaughnessy chose to concentrate on marketing services to institutions. One person close to Netfolio said the company had signed up about 6,500 subscribers before deciding to pull the plug on them by Sept. 14.
Mr. O'Shaughnessy said that it was "painful" to have to cut off direct access to Netfolio through its Web site but that he was confident that individual investors would soon have access to folios through a variety of established companies. Mr. Punishill said he had always thought that there would be limited demand from individual investors to buy baskets or folios directly. So, he said, he was not shocked by Netfolio's move. 
STEVEN WALLMAN, the founder of Foliofn, said that he remained committed to offering folios directly, but that he had been developing ties to companies that provide brokerage and money management services to investors. Even the iconoclastic Mr. Wallman, a former S.E.C. commissioner who has railed against mutual funds as being too costly, acknowledged that stock baskets would not catch on with individual investors until they were embraced by big financial companies. Persuading Quick & Reilly to promote folios to its online brokerage customers could be the break that Foliofn needs to reach beyond the shrinking pool of investors who stay glued to CNBC and devote hours each week to tinkering with their stock holdings.
"The validation is great," Mr. Wallman said. "Quick & Reilly is a mainstream brokerage with millions of accounts. This may not be a watershed in terms of huge numbers of accounts, but it certainly is the beginning, the turning of the corner in the validation of this idea."
Mr. Froude said that the relative obscurity of companies that have promoted stock baskets until recently is "probably the reason that you haven't seen mass adoption at this stage."
He added: "I think what the last 18 months has taught a lot of investors is that diversification and structure is important to success in investing. This service provides some of that structure."
Michael J. Quinn, a senior vice president for Internet strategy at Quick & Reilly, said the firm needed to explain the benefits of folios, particularly the ability to rebalance holdings often and to control when taxes are paid on gains. "It is a little confusing to some people," he acknowledged.
Foliofn's services include advice on which shares to sell when a customer decides to unload stock. A tax-planning tool on Foliofn's Web site identifies shares that would yield the lowest taxable gain or the biggest tax loss, depending on the seller's needs. Investors give up that control when they buy mutual funds, a competitive problem for the fund industry.
So far, though, Mr. Wallman says the slumping stock market has created more problems for him and for the fans of folios than the fund establishment ever did.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald E. Froude, left, and Mike Quinn of Quick & Reilly, a brokerage firm that plans to offer personalized stock funds, called folios. (Krista Niles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); ONLINE TRADING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); STARTUPS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); BONDS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: FOLIOFN INVESTMENTS INC (92%); FMR CORP (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (58%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; QUICK & REILLY; FLEETBOSTON FINANCIAL CORP; FOLIO (FN); FIDELITY INVESTMENTS 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



250 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY; 
In Chicago, the Fed Shows You the Money

 BODY:
A look at the evolution of money and banking and an introduction to the Federal Reserve System can be found at the new visitors center at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
 With videos, computer games and kinetic sculptures, the 5,600-square-foot facility familiarizes visitors with the power of money and how the Federal Reserve System affects the economy. 
 An interactive computer game enables visitors to step into the shoes of Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, setting monetary policy through a variety of hypothetical economic situations. The Counterfeit Cash Quiz allows visitors to try their hand at spotting fake currency.
A transparent four-by-four-by-four-foot, 2,000-pound rotating cube shows how much space a million dollar bills would take up. An eight-foot-high kinetic sculpture demonstrates the life cycle of a dollar bill as it travels from the Bureau of Engraving and Printing through the economy until it is ultimately shredded (you can even grab some shreds). 
Check processing, monetary policy and other ways the Fed keeps money moving through the United States economy is explained in a video, and the center's collection of rare coins and currency illustrates how money has developed over the centuries. 
The Chicago Fed Visitors Center, 230 South LaSalle Street, is open Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. except holidays. Free. More information: (312) 322-5111. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); CURRENCIES (75%); COINS & COINAGE (74%); COUNTERFEITING (70%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (66%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (66%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (93%); BUREAU OF ENGRAVING & PRINTING (56%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%) SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



251 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 6242 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/FILM: THE ANNOTATED LIST; 
Ali vs. Spider-Man, Monsters Inc. and Other Contenders

BYLINE:  By DAVE KEHR 

 BODY:
 A * indicates a film of special note.

September
"THE GLASS HOUSE" Orphaned after their parents' car crash, a teenager (Leelee Sobieski) and her younger brother (Trevor Morgan) are taken in by a wealthy couple (Diane Lane and Stellan Skarsgard), but not all is right in their lush Malibu mansion. The "X-Files" veteran Daniel Sackheim directed. Friday.

"HAIKU TUNNEL" Comic adventures of a career office temp, based on a one-man show by Josh Kornbluth. Directed by his younger brother, Jacob. Friday.

"HARDBALL"An aimless drifter (Keanu Reeves) finds a new lease on life when a friend drafts him to coach a baseball team from Chicago's Cabrini Green housing project. Directed by Brian Robbins ("Varsity Blues"). Friday.

"TELL ME SOMETHING" A serial killer who scrambles the body parts of his victims has Seoul's ace homicide investigator (Han Suk-gyu) on the run. Directed by Chang Youn-hyun. Friday.

"CHILDREN UNDERGROUND" Edet Belzberg's documentary follows five representative street children from Romania's population of some 20,000 homeless youths. Sept. 19.

"GLITTER" The pop diva Mariah Carey in a semiautobiographical story about a girl from the wrong side of the tracks who becomes a singing sensation with help from a powerful D.J. (Max Beesley). Vondie Curtis-Hall directed. Sept. 21. A related article is on Page 45.

"THE AMERICAN ASTRONAUT" The cult rocker Cory McAbee, the frontman of the Billy Nayer Show, wrote, directed and stars in a grungy science fiction parody about an interplanetary trader on a mission to recruit a breeding male for the all-female planet Venus. In black and white. Sept. 21.

"BIG TROUBLE" Tim Allen as a divorced dad who finds a bomb in a suitcase, leading to his involvement in a bungled heist attempt. From Dave Barry's novel. Barry Sonnenfeld directed a heavy cast: Rene Russo, Tom Sizemore, Stanley Tucci, Patrick Warburton, Janeane Garofalo and Omar Epps. Sept. 21.

"ENDURANCE: SHACKLETON'S LEGENDARY ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION" The documentarian George Butler ("Pumping Iron") tells the story of the famously disastrous polar expedition. Sept. 21.

"GO TIGERS!" A documentary look at the passion for high school football in Rust Belt Ohio. Ken Carlson directed. Sept. 21.

"LIAM" From the director Stephen Frears, the tale of a boy growing up in Liverpool during the Depression. Dad (Ian Hart) gets involved in fascist politics. Sept. 21.

"MEGIDDO" A sequel to the Christian evangelist feature "The Omega Code," which finds Michael York, Diane Venora and Michael Biehn caught up in the Apocalypse. Sept. 21.

"SIDEWALKS OF NEW YORK" Couples form and re-form on the Upper East Side. Among the players are Rosario Dawson, Brittany Murphy, Stanley Tucci, Heather Graham and Edward Burns, who also wrote and directed. Sept. 21.

"TRAINING DAY" A rookie cop (Ethan Hawke) spends his first day on the job with a thrillingly corrupt senior officer (Denzel Washington). With Scott Glenn and Eva Mendes. Antoine Fuqua directed. Sept. 21.
"BORN ROMANTIC" Three men contemplate the mysteries of the feminine psyche in a British comedy directed by David Kane. Craig Ferguson, Ian Hart, Jane Horrocks and Catherine McCormack star. Sept. 28.

"DIAMOND MEN" A veteran diamond salesman (Robert Forster) takes his apprentice (Donnie Wahlberg) on a road trip through Pennsylvania. Daniel M. Cohen wrote and directed. Sept. 28.

"DINNER RUSH" Comic intrigue at a TriBeCa restaurant called Gigino, owned by Danny Aiello, which is trying to move from red sauce to yuppie refinement. Bob Giraldi directed. Sept. 28.

"DON'T SAY A WORD" A child psychiatrist (Michael Douglas) has only one hope of rescuing his kidnapped daughter: a bit of crucial information held by a very disturbed young mental patient, played by Brittany Murphy. From the director Gary Fleder. Sept. 28.

"EXTREME DAYS" Four childhood pals set off to experience all the extreme sports of their dreams before settling down into responsible adulthood. Eric Hannah is the director. Sept. 28.

"HEARTS IN ATLANTIS" From a story by Stephen King, the story of a boy (Anton Yelchin) whose life is changed forever by a mysterious psychic (Anthony Hopkins) who moves into the boardinghouse operated by the boy's mother (Hope Davis). Big Oscar guns here: the script is by William Goldman ("Misery"), the direction by Scott Hicks ("Shine"). Sept. 28.

"TIME OF FAVOR"Joseph Cedar's controversial Israeli film about an Orthodox army unit involved in a plot to blow up the Temple Mount in Jerusalem. Assi Dayan stars as a dangerously charismatic rabbi. Sept. 28.

"ZOOLANDER" Ben Stiller is a co-writer, director and star of this comedy about a brainless male model recruited to assassinate the president of Malaysia. It has Owen Wilson, Christine Taylor and Milla Jovovich in it, too, along with a parade of celebrity cameos. Sept. 28.

* "VA SAVOIR" ("WHO KNOWS?") Romantic roundelay among actors and academics in Paris. New York Film Festival opener. From the New Wave veteran Jacques Rivette. Jeanne Balibar and Sergio Castellitto star. Sept. 29.

October

"LA CIENAGA" The horror that is the upper middle class in Argentina, evoked by a family living through a long, drunken summer in a resort town in the country's northwest. Lucrecia Martel directed. Oct. 3.

"THE WASH" Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg as two cash-poor roommates who take jobs at a mob-owned carwash. It's a film by D.J. Pooh ("3 Strikes"). Oct. 3.

"BETTER THAN SEX" An Australian dressmaker (Susie Porter) and a British photographer (David Wenham) hole up in her apartment for three days of wild sex, promising each other that they won't fall in love. Jonathan Teplitzky directed. Oct. 5.

"BURNT MONEY" From the Argentine director Marcelo Pineyro, the story of a gay couple who hold up a bank and take refuge in a prostitute's apartment. Oct. 5.

"CHOP SUEY" The photographer and documentarian Bruce Weber ("Let's Get Lost") introduces his protege, the teenage wrestling star Peter Johnson, to a new world of glamour and excitement. Oct. 5.

"COLLATERAL DAMAGE" When he loses his wife and his young son in a terrorist attack on a Los Angeles office building, a firefighter (Arnold Schwarzenegger) heads to Colombia to find those responsible. Andrew Davis ("The Fugitive") directs. With Francesca Neri and Elias Koteas. Oct. 5.

"GRATEFUL DAWG" The enduring friendship and musical collaboration between Jerry Garcia and David Grisman, captured in a documentary by Gillian Grisman, Mr. Grisman's daughter. Oct. 5.

"IRON MONKEY" Miramax is rereleasing this 1993 martial arts movie, betting on the growing reputation of its director, Yuen Woo-Ping, who staged the fight scenes in "The Matrix" and "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." Rongguang Yu stars as a village doctor who doubles as a Chinese Robin Hood. Oct. 5.

"JOY RIDE" The thriller specialist John Dahl ("The Last Seduction") returns with the cautionary tale of two college students, Steve Zahn and Paul Walker, who play a practical joke on a trucker during a cross-country trip. Not a good idea. With Leelee Sobieski. Oct. 5.

"MAX KEEBLE'S BIG MOVE" Expecting to move to a new city in a week, a seventh grader (Alex D. Linz) executes elaborate revenge plots against all the classmates who have picked on him, then finds that the move is off. Tim Hill directed. Oct. 5.

"SERENDIPITY" A chance meeting in a department store leads to a night of bliss for John Cusack and Kate Beckinsale, but they decide to leave their future to fate and separate. A decade later, they try to find each other. Directed by Peter Chelsom. Oct. 5.

"WAYDOWNTOWN" Four twenty-somethings bet a month's salary on who can stay indoors the longest. From the Canadian filmmaker Gary Burns ("The Kitchen Party"). Oct. 5.

"WERCKMEISTER HARMONIES" Bela Tarr, cult director of the seven-and-a-half-hour drama about an agricultural collective, "Satantango," returns with a more wieldy project. The residents of a small village are concerned when their wealthiest families start disappearing -- and then a sinister circus comes to town. Oct. 10.

"BANDITS" Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton team up as a pair of bank robbers with an unconventional M.O.: they pounce on bank managers in their homes, stay with them overnight and escort them to work in the morning to clean out the vault. It's when an unhappy housewife (Cate Blanchett) enters the scene that their odd-couple relationship (Mr. Thornton's character is tidy, Mr. Willis's sloppy) slips out of balance. Barry Levinson directed. Oct. 12.

"CORKY ROMANO" Chris Kattan infiltrates the F.B.I. on behalf of his estranged father, Peter Falk, a Mafia chieftain under federal investigation. Oct. 12.

"FOCUS" A Brooklyn loser (William H. Macy) doesn't speak up when his anti-Semitic neighbors hassle the immigrant news vendor on his street; then he's shunned as a Jew himself. From Arthur Miller's novel, with Laura Dern and David Paymer. Neal Slavin directed. Oct. 12.

"THE LAST CASTLE" Stripped of his rank of three-star general and tossed into a maximum-security military prison, Robert Redford finds himself butting heads with the brutal warden, played by James Gandolfini. Rod Lurie ("The Contender") directed. Oct. 12.

"LUCKY BREAK" Prisoners use a talent show to hide their escape attempt. James Nesbitt, Olivia Williams and Timothy Spall are among the cast of this whimsical comedy. Peter Sheridan directed. Oct. 12.

"MULHOLLAND DRIVE" David Lynch expanded his pilot for an unsold TV show into this surrealistic thriller. A naive young actress (Naomi Watts) finds a woman (Laura Harring) hiding in her apartment. Her memory is gone, but she seems to have some involvement with gangsters and the movie business. Oct. 12.

"THE OPERATOR" A Dallas lawyer makes the mistake of offending a telephone operator, who uses all of the information at her disposal to destroy his life. With Michael Lawrence and Jaqueline Kim. Directed by John Dichter. Oct. 12.

"RAW DEAL: A QUESTION OF CONSENT" This documentary by Alfred Spellman and Billy Corben was a hot topic at Sundance for its use of home video footage of an alleged rape. Oct. 12.

"SOBIBOR, OCT. 14, 1943, 4 P.M." Claude Lanzmann continues to mine the trove of material he gathered for his Holocaust documentary "Shoah" by presenting this 1979 interview with Yehuda Lerner, one of the participants in what Mr. Lanzmann describes as "the only successful uprising in a Nazi extermination camp," resulting in the largest escape by prisoners during the war. Oct. 12.

"YANA'S FRIENDS" Russian immigrants arrive in Israel during the 1991 gulf war. Yana is a beautiful young woman abandoned by her husband; her roommate is a video photographer who makes Yana the subject of his newest work. Oct. 12.

"BERLIN BABYLON" Architects, developers and politicians scramble to fill the five square miles of vacant property left by the destruction of the Berlin Wall. A documentary by Hubertus Siegert. Oct. 17.

"FAT GIRL" The writer-director Catherine Breillat ("Romance") draws on her adolescent memories to concoct this acidic tale of a tubby 12-year-old who is a reluctant witness to the sexual initiation of her slender older sister. Oct. 19.

* "FROM HELL" This period horror film represents a change of pace for the Hughes brothers, known for their contemporary urban dramas ("Menace 2 Society"). Johnny Depp stars as a police inspector with mysterious psychic powers, put on the trail of Jack the Ripper. With Heather Graham and Ian Holm. Oct. 19.

* "HEIST" A professional thief (Gene Hackman) finds his life crumbling around him when he's caught by a security camera. His fence, Danny DeVito, won't come through with the money he owes him, and he suspects that his wife (Rebecca Pidgeon) is fooling around with the fence's young assistant (Sam Rockwell). Sounds as if it's time for the Last Big Job. Written and directed by David Mamet. Oct. 19.

"INTIMACY" A lonely bartender (Mark Rylance) has a highly charged (and sexually explicit) affair with Kerry Fox, an aspiring actress married to an amiable lump (Timothy Spall). Patrice Chereau directed, from a story by Hanif Kureishi. Oct. 19.

"NOVOCAINE" Steve Martin is a dentist who is drawn into a murder plot by a sexy patient (Helena Bonham Carter). Directed by David Atkins. With Laura Dern and Elias Koteas. Oct. 19.

"ON THE LINE" Lance Bass and Joey Fatone of 'N Sync in their acting debut as two young Chicagoans in pursuit of a dream girl. Directed by Eric Bross ("Restaurant"). Oct. 19.

"RIDING IN CARS WITH BOYS" Penny Marshall directs Drew Barrymore in the true story of Beverly Donofrio and her personal journey from single mom at 15 to successful writer at 35. With Steve Zahn and Brittany Murphy. Oct. 19.

* "WAKING LIFE" A foray into experimental animation by the indie filmmaker Richard Linklater ("Slacker"), it's a poetic, surreal tale of a young man (Wiley Wiggins) literally drifting through life. Or is it all a dream? Oct. 19.

"TREMBLING BEFORE G-D"Sandi Simcha DuBowski's documentary reports on a taboo subject: homosexuality among Orthodox Jews. Oct. 24.

"BONES" Snoop Doggy Dogg is Jimmy Bones in this horror film set in the inner city. Killed by drug dealers in the 1970's, a neighborhood protector returns to claim his vengeance 20 years later. Ernest R. Dickerson directed. With Pam Grier. Oct. 26.

"DONNIE DARKO" Jake Gyllenhaal, with his lunar grin, is the title character, a brilliant teenager trapped in a suburban wasteland. Richard Kelly wrote and directed. Oct. 26.


"K-PAX" Angling for another Oscar nomination, Kevin Spacey plays a mental patient who believes he's a visitor from the distant planet K-Pax; Jeff Bridges plays the psychiatrist who treats him. The British director Iain Softley ("The Wings of the Dove") is at the helm. With Alfre Woodard and Mary McCormack. Oct. 26. A related article is on Page 33.

* "LIFE AS A HOUSE" When an architect (Kevin Kline) discovers that he's dying, he asks his estranged wife (Kristin Scott Thomas) and their teenage son (Hayden Christensen) to help him build a new house. Irwin Winkler directed from Mark Andrus's screenplay. With Mary Steenburgen, Jenna Malone and Sam Robards. Oct. 26. A related article is on Page 31.

"THE SIMIAN LINE" Invited to entertain at a Weehawken, N.J., dinner party, a psychic (Tyne Daly) predicts that one of the four couples at the table will be washed up before the year is over. With Harry Connick Jr., Cindy Crawford, William Hurt, Samantha Mathis, Lynn Redgrave and Eric Stoltz. Directed by Linda Yellen. Oct. 26.

"13 GHOSTS" Joel Silver and Robert Zemeckis produced this high-tech remake of William Castle's 1960 horror cheapie. A widower (Tony Shalhoub) and his two children are given the keys to a fabulous glass and steel house, only to find that it contains the vengeful spirits of 13 victims of violent murder. Embeth Davidtz and Matthew Lillard also star. Oct. 26.

* "THE TOWN IS QUIET" From the French filmmaker Robert Guediguian ("Marius and Jeanette"), a panoramic study of a poor neighborhood in Marseilles. Issues include unemployment, prostitution, heroin addiction, underworld infiltration and African immigration. Oct. 26.

"WHAT TIME IS IT THERE?" Intercontinental romance, as a Taipei street watch-seller develops a passionate crush on a young woman leaving for Paris. Tsai Ming-liang ("The River") directed, in a lighter mood for him. Oct. 26.

November

"MYSTERIOUS OBJECT AT NOON" From Thailand, an avant-garde exploration that begins when a student notices a strange article rolling out from beneath his teacher's skirt. Directed by Apichatpong Weerasethakul. Nov. 1.

* "AMELIE" This quirky but upbeat comedy directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet has been a huge success in its native France, and it seems to have introduced a new star: Audrey Tautou, the big-eyed waif who plays the title character. She's a waitress in a Montmartre cafe who hatches elaborate plans to improve the lives of her friends and co-workers. Nov. 2. A related article is on Page 58.

"THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF" Something awful is haunting the hills and dales of Gevaudan, a remote province of 18th-century France; the court dispatches a chevalier (Samuel Le Bihan) and his American Indian assistant (Mark Dacascos) to investigate. Directed by Christophe Gans, it's one of the first French films to make use of Hollywood-style digital effects. Nov. 2.

"CODE UNKNOWN" Juliette Binoche stars as an unhappy actress caring for her naive brother-in-law in Michael Haneke's sweeping vision of urban alienation in Paris. Nov. 2.

"DOMESTIC DISTURBANCES" A divorced dad (John Travolta) begins to suspect that his son's new stepfather (Vince Vaughn) may be an abuser. Harold Becker ("Sea of Love") directed. Nov. 2.

"HAPPENSTANCE" A chain of coincidences brings together a shy store clerk (Audrey Tautou, in a film that was released in France one year before her smash hit "Amelie") and an Algerian immigrant (the rai singer Faudel) during a long day in Paris. Laurent Firode wrote and directed this French-language feature. Nov. 2.

"THE MAN WHO WASN'T THERE" An oddball Coen brothers project -- is there some other kind? -- about a small-town barber (Billy Bob Thornton) caught up in a blackmail scheme. Shot in black and white, like a Robert Bresson version of a James M. Cain story. Nov. 2.

* "MONSTERS INC." A computer-animated feature from the Pixar organization, creators of "Toy Story." John Goodman lends his voice to the lead character, a power-blue gorilla thingy whose job it is to give children nightmares. Other voices: Billy Crystal, James Coburn, Jennifer Tilly, Steve Buscemi, Bonnie Hunt. Nov. 2.

"THE ONE" A cop (Jet Li) is assigned to eliminate himself -- the alternate himself, that is, who exists in a parallel dimension. From James Wong (director) and Glen Morgan (writer), who brought you "Final Destination." Nov. 2.

"PUNKS" Four gay African-Americans look for love in a debut feature by Patrik-Ian Polk. With Seth Gilliam, Rockmond Dunbar and Vanessa Williams. Nov. 2.

"TAPE" A video feature by Richard Linklater, adapted from an Off Broadway piece about three old high school friends (Ethan Hawke, Uma Thurman and Robert Sean Leonard) who meet for a night of soul searching. Nov. 2.

"OTOMO" The German director Frieder Schlach's fictional take on a factual incident: the police killing in Stuttgart, Germany of a black West African refugee who was driven to violence by racism.. With Isaach de Bankole and Eva Mattes. Nov. 7.

"BAANOO" An Iranian woman is devastated when her husband takes a second, younger wife; her response is to gather other outcasts and take them in. Dariush Mehrjui directed. Nov. 9.

"THE CAT'S MEOW" One of Hollywood's great unsolved mysteries -- the death of the producer Thomas H. Ince on William Randolph Hearst's yacht -- as imagined by Peter Bogdanovich. With Cary Elwes, Edward Herrmann and Kirsten Dunst as Marion Davies. Nov. 9.

"METROPOLIS" Based on characters created in the late 40's by Osamu Tezuka, the seminal figure in Japanese anime ("Astro Boy"), this animated feature tells of a future city populated by humans and robots in uneasy alliance. Directed by Rintaro ("X"). Nov. 9.

"MY FIRST MISTER" The life of a shy men's-wear-store salesman (Albert Brooks) is transformed when he meets a nihilistic, 19-year-old Goth (Leelee Sobieski). Directed by the actress Christine Lahti and written by Jill Franklyn, it features Carol Kane, Mary Kay Place and Michael McKean. Nov. 9.

* "SHALLOW HAL" A compulsive womanizer (Jack Black) is hypnotized into believing that the plain-looking woman he's dating is really as gorgeous as Gwyneth Paltrow (easy, because Gwyneth Paltrow plays her). Directed by the busy Farrelly brothers. Nov. 9.

* "WINDTALKERS" John Woo, arguably the most influential filmmaker working today (given how often his extreme action style has been imitated), tackles the story of the Navajo "code talkers," who passed secret messages by radio during the war in the Pacific. Nicolas Cage, Christian Slater and Frances O'Connor star. Nov. 9.

"THE FLUFFER" A drama about low-level workers in the pornography industry, directed by Richard Glatzer and Wash West.Nov. 16.

* "HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE" First installment in what promises to be a long line of films adapted from J. K. Rowling's fantasy novels, about a put-upon boy (a newcomer, Daniel Radcliffe) who attends a secret school of sorcery. With Richard Harris (Dumbledore), Maggie Smith (Professor McGonagall) and Robbie Coltrane (Hagrid). Chris Columbus directed. Nov. 16. A related article is on Page 40.

"THE NEW GUY" A high school geek (DJ Qualls) acts up enough to earn himself a prison term but learns to be a tough guy from a fellow inmate (Eddie Griffin). Ed Decter directs. Nov. 16.

"BLACK KNIGHT" A worker at the Medieval World amusement park, played by the volatile Martin Lawrence, gets a crack on the head and is projected back to 14th-century England. With Tom Wilkinson and Kevin Conway. The sitcom veteran Gil Junger directed. Nov. 21.

"SPY GAME" Ready to retire from the international espionage business, a C.I.A. agent (Robert Redford) is called back on the job when it appears that his protege, Brad Pitt, has gone over to the dark side. Directed by Tony Scott. Nov. 21.

"THE WAY WE LAUGHED" A film by Gianni Amelio ("Lamerica"), which mellowed after a couple of years of sitting on the shelf, about Sicilian brothers who emigrate upcountry to Turin in search of employment. Nov. 21.

"IN THE BEDROOM" Tom Wilkinson and Sissy Spacek are a quiet New England couple whose lives are violently changed when their son (Nick Stahl) is killed. Directed by Todd Field, from a story by Andre Dubus. Nov. 23.

"THE AFFAIR OF THE NECKLACE" Hilary Swank in Charles Shyer's historical drama as an 18th-century countess cheated of her title by France's royal family. With Simon Baker, Adrien Brody, Jonathan Pryce and Christopher Walken. Nov. 30.

"SUPER TROOPERS" The Canadian comedy troupe Broken Lizard in a farce about misbehaving Vermont state troopers. Jay Chandrasekhar directed and plays one of the leading roles. Brian Cox and Lynda Carter guest-star. Nov. 30.

Fall

"THE FINAL CURTAIN" Peter O'Toole and Rhys Ifans as feuding British game show hosts. Pat Harkins directed.

"KILLING ME SOFTLY" Chen Kaige, the Chinese filmmaker whose "Yellow Earth" initiated his country's filmmaking renaissance, makes his first English-language feature -- the story of a scientist (Heather Graham) who runs off with an adventurer (Joseph Fiennes).

"PRINCESA" The odyssey of Fernanda, a 19-year-old Brazilian transvestite, who arrives in Milan in search of the perfect man. When she finds him, he insists that she have a sex-change operation -- and she's not so sure. Directed by Henrique Goldman.

December

"B-52" Hartmut Bitomsky, the canny documentarian who made "Reichsautobahn," explores another engineering feat of World War II: the American B-52 bomber. Dec. 5.

* "ALI" Will Smith as Muhammad Ali, in a biographical epic directed by Michael Mann ("The Insider"). A big movie, with five credited screenwriters and a cast that includes Jon Voight, Jamie Foxx, Jada Pinkett Smith, Jeffrey Wright, Mario Van Peebles, Ron Silver and Giancarlo Esposito. Dec. 7. A related article is on Page 56.

"THE BUSINESS OF STRANGERS" A corporate executive (Stockard Channing) passes a drunken evening with her surly young assistant (Julia Stiles). Things get out of hand when they select an oblivious businessman (Frederick Weller) as the focus of all of their rage against male bosses. A first feature by Patrick Stettner. Dec. 7.

"HEAVEN" The first installment of the trilogy (followed by "Purgatory" and "Hell") that the great Polish director Krzysztof Kieslowski was working on when he died. Miramax bought the script and gave it to Tom Tykwer ("Run, Lola, Run") to direct, for reasons that are not yet apparent. Cate Blanchett plays a junkie turned anti-drug vigilante. Dec. 7.

* "OCEAN'S ELEVEN" The venerable Rat Pack vehicle, a heist picture set in Las Vegas, remade by Steven Soderbergh and starring George Clooney, Matt Damon and Brad Pitt. Dec. 7. A related article is on Page 56.

"PINERO" The life and times of the Puerto Rican playwright Miguel Pinero ("Short Eyes") as played by Benjamin Bratt. From Leon Ichaso, director of "Crossover Dreams." Dec. 7.

"AS I WAS MOVING AHEAD OCCASIONALLY I SAW BRIEF GLIMPSES OF BEAUTY" The dean of New York's avant-garde, Jonas Mekas, presents the latest, 288-minute installment of his film diary. Dec. 12.

"NOT ANOTHER TEEN MOVIE" Sounds like a "Scary Movie"-style spoof of the myriad conventions of the teenage romance genre, a la Freddie Prinze Jr. Those responsible include Joel Gallen (director), Jaime Pressly, Mia Kirschner, Randy Quaid, Chyler Leigh, Chris Evans and Joy Bisco. Dec. 14.

* "VANILLA SKY" Cameron Crowe directed this remake of the 1997 Spanish film "Open Your Eyes." Tom Cruise is a dashing playboy whose face is destroyed in a car accident. But his real problems start when a doctor (Kurt Russell) tells him his looks can be reconstructed. With Penelope Cruz, Cameron Diaz and Jason Lee. Dec. 14.

* "LITTLE OTIK" The Czech cult filmmaker Jan Svankmajer ("Alice") offers his version of an Eastern European fairy tale about a childless couple who adopt a tree stump.It grows into something awful enough to eat a cat and a mailman. Dec. 19.

* "THE LORD OF THE RINGS: THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING" The opening installment of Peter Jackson's trilogy, adapted from J. R. R. Tolkien's fantasy cycle. Elijah Wood plays Frodo Baggins, a hobbit with a mission to destroy the One Ring, source of the power of the evil Dark Lord Sauron. A big cast includes Ian McKellen, Cate Blachett, Sean Astin, Hugo Weaving, Brad Dourif, Christopher Lee, Ian Holm, Liv Tyler and Viggo Mortenson. Dec. 19. A related article is on page 40.

"THE ACCIDENTAL SPY" Jackie Chan as a salesman who dreams of great adventures and finds his chance when he's recruited to search for a missing lung-cancer virus in this action-comedy. Dec. 21.

* "GANGS OF NEW YORK" Martin Scorsese reconstructed 19th-century New York on a back lot in Rome for this epic about the dangerous gangs who roamed the streets of Manhattan. Leonardo DiCaprio is the son of the leader of the feared Dead Rabbits; he has a bone to pick with a rival gangster (Daniel Day-Lewis) when his father turns up dead. Cameron Diaz, Liam Neeson, John C. Reilly and Brendan Gleeson fill out the cast. Dec. 21.

* "GOSFORD PARK" Robert Altman directs an upstairs-downstairs mystery set at an English country estate. A hunting party is in progress, and the servants and the served -- Bob Balaban, Alan Bates, Stephen Fry, Michael Gambon, Richard E. Grant, Derek Jacobi, Helen Mirren, Jeremy Northam, Clive Owen, Ryan Phillippe, Maggie Smith, Kristin Scott Thomas and Emily Watson -- are all suspects when a murder takes place. Dec. 21. A related article is on Page 52.

"JIMMY NEUTRON, BOY GENIUS" The cable channel Nickelodeon presents an animated feature about a plucky 10-year-old whose inventions just might save his hometown from an alien invasion. The voice talent includes Patrick Stewart and Martin Short; John A. Davis wrote and directed. Dec. 21.

"JOE SOMEBODY" The office drone (Tim Allen) is humiliated in front of his little daughter by the company bully and decides to pump himself up into a person to be taken seriously. Directed by John Pasquin. With Julie Bowen, Kelly Lynch and Patrick Warburton. Dec. 21.

"LANTANA" A network of strained human relationships is revealed as a police detective (Anthony LaPaglia) looks into the disappearance of a Sydney woman. With Geoffrey Rush, Barbara Hershey and Leah Purcell; Ray Lawrence directs from Andrew Bovell's novel. Dec. 21.

* "THE MAJESTIC" Jim Carrey in a dramatic role, as a blacklisted screenwriter of the 1950's who takes refuge in a small town. The canny Frank Darabont ("The Green Mile") directed. With Martin Landau, Allen Garfield and Laurie Holden. Dec. 21.

"BAD COMPANY" A longtime C.I.A. agent (Anthony Hopkins) has just a short time to train a streetwise recruit (Chris Rock) to replace his murdered twin brother on a sensitive mission. The director is Joel Schumacher ("Tigerland"). Dec. 25.

* "A BEAUTIFUL MIND" The true story of John Forbes Nash Jr. (Russell Crowe), a math genius struck by schizophrenia. He overcomes his illness (this is Oscar season) with the help of Ed Harris, Jennifer Connelly, Paul Bettany and Christopher Plummer. Ron Howard directed. Dec. 25.

* "THE ROYAL TENENBAUMS" The Tenenbaum family (headed by Gene Hackman and Anjelica Huston) produced a trio of child prodigies but has since fallen on hard times. The children, now grown up (Gwyneth Paltrow, Ben Stiller, Luke Wilson) have moved back home to contemplate the disaster of their lives, when dad turns up on the doorstep, begging for a second chance. An uncategorizable film from Wes Anderson, the director of "Rushmore." Dec. 25.

* "THE SHIPPING NEWS" Miramax's Oscar contender is based on E. Annie Proulx's novel about a newspaper columnist (Kevin Spacey) who retreats to his family home in Newfoundland after a traumatic experience involving his wife (Cate Blanchett) and their young daughter. Lasse Hallstrom directed, calling again on the talents of his "Chocolat" screenwriter, Robert Nelson Jacobs. With Julianne Moore, Rhys Ifans and, of course, Judi Dench. Dec. 25.

"THE TIME MACHINE" Another interpretation of the H. G. Wells story. Guy Pearce creates a machine that propels him 800,000 years into a grim future for the human race. Mark Addy, Jeremy Irons and Philip Bosco figure in it, too; Simon Wells, the author's great-grandson, directed. Dec. 25.

"HOW HIGH" A mutant form of marijuana allows two slackers -- played by the rap stars Redman and Method Man -- to do well enough on their SAT's to get into Harvard. Now what? Jesse Dylan directed. Dec. 26.

"I AM SAM" Oscar bid? You decide. Sean Penn plays a mentally disabled man who has been successfully bringing up his young daughter. But when social services gets wind of the situation, they want to take the child away. A pro bono lawyer (Michele Pfeiffer) is Sam's only hope. Jessie Nelson directed. Dec. 28.

January

"BEAUTY AND THE BEAST" Polished up for Imax in time for its 10th anniversary, a Disney fairy tale favorite returns. The directors, Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise, have added a new song, "Human Again," for this special edition. Jan. 1.

"EISENSTEIN" The troubled life of the revolutionary Russian filmmaker Sergei Eisenstein (Simon McBurney), who had the bad luck to be gay, Jewish and brilliant in the early Soviet period. Renny Bartlett directed. Jan. 2.

"ZU WARRIORS" The Hong Kong favorite Tsui Hark directs a digital remake of his 1991 fantasy adventure, "Zu: Warriors From the Magic Mountain." Jan. 14.

"THE FAREWELL" Jan Schutte's German film imagines the last day of Bertolt Brecht's 1956 summer vacation, as he juggles his wife and mistresses while preparing to return to Berlin. Jan. 16.

"ITALIAN FOR BEGINNERS" Love blooms among the members of a language class in a Danish provincial city. The first official Dogma film to be directed by a woman (Lone Scherfig). Jan. 18.

"PLUTO NASH" A hundred years in the future, Eddie Murphy owns a nightclub on the moon but is still experiencing the old mob shakedown tactics. Rosario Dawson stars as the club's chanteuse. With Jay Mohr and Randy Quaid. Ron Underwood directed. Jan. 18.

"DRAGONFLY" A doctor (Kevin Costner) believes his dead wife is trying to speak to him through his patients' near-death experiences. Tom Shadyac directed, closer, one hopes, to his "Nutty Professor" than to his "Patch Adams." Jan. 25.

"40 DAYS AND 40 NIGHTS" After a painful breakup, Josh Hartnett swears to stay away from women for the title period, while his ex, Shannyn Sossamon, plots to get him back. Michael Lehmann ("Heathers") directed this romantic comedy. Jan. 25.

"NO SUCH THING" A new fable from Hal Hartley ("Trust") that sounds like a variation on "Beauty and the Beast." A monster (Robert John Burke) kills everyone who comes near him, except a reporter (Sarah Polley). January.

February "MONSOON WEDDING" Family tensions explode during a Punjabi wedding in New Delhi. From Mira Nair, director of "Salaam Bombay!" Feb. 1.

"THE PANIC ROOM" Jodie Foster was a last-minute replacement for Nicole Kidman in this new thriller by David Fincher ("Seven"). A New Yorker whose brownstone is invaded by three burglars, she hides with her daughter in a secret "panic room." Feb. 1.

* "THE SON'S ROOM" An Italian family struggles to survive the death of a son, in a very muted melodrama by Nanni Mo retti ("Ciao Diario"). The Palme d'Or winner of the 2001 Cannes International Film Festival. Feb. 2.

"CITY BY THE SEA" Robert De Niro as a New York police detective who finds that his son (James Franco) is the prime suspect in a killing. Directed by Michael Caton-Jones ("This Boy's Life"). Feb. 8.

"KATE AND LEOPOLD" Kate is Meg Ryan, a scientist who specializes in time travel, and Leopold is Hugh Jackman, a Victorian gentleman she has managed to transport into present-day New York. Is love in the air? James Mangold ("Cop Land") is the director. Feb. 8.

* "ROLLERBALL" The action ace John McTiernan ("Die Hard") tackles a remake of the 1975 science fiction thriller. The violent sport of the title -- sort of a Roller Derby with weapons -- has become the national obsession, and its champion (Chris Klein) is the national hero. With LL Cool J, Jean Reno and Rebecca Romijn-Stamos. Feb. 8.

"SCOTLAND, PA." "Macbeth" transplanted to a fast food empire in Pennsylvania. With James LeGros, Maura Tierney, Christopher Walken and assorted other downtown types. Billy Morissette directs. Feb. 8.

"BIRTHDAY GIRL" Jez Butterworth's British comedy, about a lonely clerk (Ben Chaplin) who writes away to Russia for a mail order bride, and gets more than he bargained for (Nicole Kidman). Feb. 22.

March

* "BLACK HAWK DOWN" Ridley Scott staged this action drama set among the soldiers airdropped into Somalia in 1993. Tom Sizemore, Eric Bana, Josh Hartnett and Sam Shepard star. March 1.

"ICE AGE" A woolly mammoth, with the voice of Ray Romano, teams up with a giant sloth, with the voice of John Leguizamo, to return a human baby to its cave family. A computer-animated film from Chris Wedge, an Oscar winner for his short film "Bunny." March 15.

"BLADE 2" The vampire-hunting comic book hero (Wesley Snipes) is back, though this time with an interesting director: Mexico's Guillermo del Toro, who did "Cronos." March 22.

"E.T. THE EXTRATERRESTRIAL" A 20th-anniversary victory lap for Steven Spielberg's cuddly spaceman. March 22.

"THE SWEETEST THING" San Francisco party girls (Cameron Diaz and Christina Applegate) panic when the prospect of true love raises its tousled head. Roger Kumble directed. March 22.

* "AND YOUR MOTHER TOO" The Mexican filmmaker Alfonso Cuaron returns home after two Hollywood projects ("A Little Princess" and "Great Expectations") for a politically pointed erotic comedy about two upper-class teenagers who run away with a sexy older woman (Maribel Verdu). March.

* "POSSESSION" Neil LaBute films A. S. Byatt's novel about two English literary scholars (Aaron Eckhart and Gwyneth Paltrow) who discover that the 19th-century writers (in flashback, Jeremy Northam and Jennifer Ehle) who are their respective objects of study had a secret affair. They set out on the same course. March.

"THE ROAD TO PERDITION" Max Allan Collins's graphic novel (a k a comic book) about a 1930's hit man known as the Angel of Death, who must go on the run from Al Capone. High-profile stuff, directed by Sam Mendes and starring Tom Hanks, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Jude Law and Paul Newman. March.

More 2002

"SPIDER-MAN" Pushed back from a planned November release, Sam Raimi's adaptation of the cult comic book features Tobey Maguire as the neurotic superhero. With Kirsten Dunst, Rosemary Harris and Willem Dafoe. May 3.

* "STAR WARS EPISODE II: ATTACK OF THE CLONES" Fans are still debating that dumb title, though plot details are rare. It does seem to star Hayden Christensen as Anakin, an apprentice Jedi assigned with his mentor, Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor), to protect Princess Amidala (Natalie Portman) from her political enemies. May 22.

"SPIRIT: STALLION OF THE CIMARRON" An animated feature from DreamWorks. Directed by Kelly Asbury and Lorna Cook. May 24.

"SCOOBY-DOO" The enduring children's television show about a crime-solving dog. He'll be digital, the other actors (Matthew Lillard, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prinze Jr.) merely human. Raja Gosnell directed. June 14.

* "MINORITY REPORT" Steven Spielberg's thriller, from a story by Philip K. Dick, is set in a future in which technology can be used to predict crimes. A Pre-Crimes Unit investigator (Tom Cruise) discovers that he himself is a suspect in just such a future transgression and has a young whippersnapper (Colin Farrell) on his trail. June 28.

"MEN IN BLACK 2" Details are still vague on this sequel, though Will Smith will return as a government agent assigned to track aliens and Patrick Warburton will be his new partner (no sign of Tommy Lee Jones). Barry Sonnenfeld is directing, again. July 3.

"STUART LITTLE 2" The lovable mouse, with the voice of Michael J. Fox, returns to New York. A new character from E. B. White's novel, a bird named Margalo (Melanie Griffith), has been added to the cast. Rob Minkoff, who directed the first, is back, too. July 19.

"BLOOD WORK" Clint Eastwood directs and stars as Terry McCaleb, retired director of the F.B.I., who is pulled back into the game when the serial killer he stalked for years returns. Aug. 9.

All dates are subject to change.
Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O'Connor.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz in Cameron Crowe's "Vanilla Sky" (December). It's a remake of the 1997 Spanish film "Open Your Eyes." (Neal Preston/Paramount Pictures); Robert Redford, left, and Brad Pitt in "Spy Game" (November). (Keith Hamshere/Universal Studios) (pg. 33); The character Wiley Wiggins drifts through Richard Linklater's experimental animated film, "Waking Life." Or is it a dream? It opens next month. (Divya Srinivasan/Fox Searchlight); Daniel Day-Lewis, second from left, and Leonardo DiCaprio, center, in Martin Scorsese's "Gangs of New York" (December). (M. Tursi/Miramax Films); Hilary Swank stars in "The Affair of the Necklace" as a penniless French aristocrat in Charles Shyer's historical drama (November). (Murray Close/Warner Brothers Pictures) (pg. 60) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); POP & ROCK (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); BASEBALL (69%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (69%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (68%); MURDER (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (68%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); RELIGION (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (73%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (58%); TOM CRUISE (58%); BRAD PITT (58%); MARIAH CAREY (50%) KEHR, DAVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (72%); VENUS (68%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (75%); ROMANIA (75%); UNITED STATES (72%); ANTARCTICA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



252 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Caroline Morris, Bo Peabody

 BODY:
Caroline Stafford Morris, the daughter of Bailey Morris-Eck of Butler, Md., and Wilson Morris of Savannah, Ga., was married yesterday to William Swanson Peabody Jr., a son of Mr. and Mrs. William S. Peabody of Atkinson, N.H. The Rev. 
Robert Borden, a Presbyterian minister, officiated at the couple's farm in Williamstown, Mass.
 Mrs. Peabody, 29, is the founder and executive director of the Prospect Foundation, a nonprofit organization in North Adams, Mass., that trains noncollege-bound young adults for technology jobs. She graduated from Colby College and received a law degree from the University of Virginia. The bride's father retired as a special assistant to the assistant director of the Latin America region at the United States Agency for International Development in Washington. Her mother is a senior associate at the Reuters Foundation, an educational and humanitarian trust, and is a founder and a chairwoman of the International Women's Media Foundation, both in Washington. 
 The bride is the stepdaughter of Linda Fiske Morris and Charles Franklin Eck Jr.
Mr. Peabody, 30, is known as Bo. He is a founder and the chairman of Village Ventures, a financial services company in Williamstown. He graduated from Williams College and is a member of the board of the Williamstown Theater Festival. The bridegroom's mother, Marny Peabody, is an owner of Skillview Technologies, a company in Plaistow, N.H., which designs and sells skill-management software. His father retired as a history and social studies teacher from Wilmington West Intermediate High School in Wilmington, Mass. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); WOMEN (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); THEATER (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); THEATER & DRAMA (51%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (57%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: MORRIS, CAROLINE STAFFORD (CAROLINE STAFFORD PEABODY); PEABODY, WILLIAM SWANSON JR. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (90%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



253 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Hold Him To It

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Friday's jump in unemployment sent Wall Street into a tailspin, but it shouldn't have come as a big surprise. The U.S. economy may or may not be technically in recession, but it is certainly growing much more slowly than its potential. This "output gap" was bound to show up in higher unemployment. 
 More significant was the fact that the bad news on jobs followed bad news about consumer spending. The much-ballyhooed tax rebate, it seems, isn't having much impact. So much for cheery forecasts of imminent recovery. Now what? 
 First, don't give up on monetary policy. The slump during the first Bush administration dragged on much longer than anyone expected, even as the Fed kept cutting. But in the end rate, cuts did do the trick. I wouldn't be surprised if the Fed's funds rate goes to 2 or lower before we really see a turnaround, but the odds are still that rate cuts will eventually work. 
What about fiscal policy? Some liberals have recently made common cause with the Bush administration, arguing that the economic slump is a reason to put aside promises to protect the Social Security surplus. But those liberals are making a big mistake. 
Even on the straight economics of the case, it is by no means clear what good it would do to give up on protecting Social Security. By and large, the spending decisions that Congress will make over the next few months won't have much impact on the economy until late next year at the earliest. Even pessimistic analysts think that a recovery will already be under way by then. 
Furthermore, responsible behavior can be rewarded -- and irresponsible behavior punished -- quite quickly. In 1993, in the face of a still-sluggish economy, Robert Rubin and Larry Summers urged Bill Clinton to commit himself to fiscal discipline. Such a commitment, they argued, would help keep long-term interest rates down and would do more to stimulate the economy, even in the short run, than any attempt to pump it up with deficit spending. And they were vindicated by events.
So even an administration that is sincerely trying to fight an economic slowdown should be held to its fiscal promises. And when an administration isn't sincere about its motives, it's even more important to hold it accountable.
Those are strong words, but George W. Bush has a consistent pattern: he doesn't respond to events by changing his policies; he merely uses those events to justify his original agenda. One need only point to the way he used a short-term economic slowdown to push through a long-run tax cut almost identical to the one he proposed back in November 1999. 
Given that the Bush tax cut wasn't designed to fight a recession, it's no surprise that it isn't working. The only part of the tax cut that does anything for the economy this year is the rebate -- added to the plan at the insistence of Democrats. And the rebate is less than 2 percent of the 10-year total. Even if consumers spent it all (and it's already clear they won't), the rebate would hardly make a dent in the unemployment rate.
Meanwhile, the tax cut will cost the Treasury at least $2 trillion after 2004 -- that is, after the economy will supposedly have recovered. That does little or nothing to fuel current consumer spending. But as Mr. Rubin and Mr. Summers could have told you, the prospect of long-run fiscal irresponsibility keeps long-term interest rates high. In other words, the Bush tax cut, aside from its devastating impact on long-run budget prospects, is also a short-run drag on the economy. 
Is there any reason to suppose that Mr. Bush, if he is allowed to get away with breaking his promises on Social Security, will use his freedom of action to any better effect? None at all. In fact, during his brief press conference after the unemployment numbers came out, Mr. Bush did it again. Now that the excuse of a supposed energy crisis has evaporated, he tried to sell Dick Cheney's energy plan -- the one that won't produce any oil for at least a decade -- as part of his plan to fight the current slowdown.
So to those who think that Mr. Bush should be released from his promises because of the weak economy: think again. Mr. Bush won't use his freedom to good effect; he will simply use it -- and you -- to do more harm. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); BILL CLINTON (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



254 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Blame and Budgets in Washington 

 BODY:
The budget battles that are resuming now in Washington are likely to look less like a slugfest than an exhibition of rope-a-dope. Democrats, convinced that the public shares their concern about raiding the Social Security and Medicare trust funds, nonetheless lack the votes and the appetite for a confrontation with President Bush. Their strategy seems to be to concede that this is a Bush budget era and allow the Republicans to flail away on their own.
 The Democrats feel passivity is their smartest strategy. Because of the ill-advised tax cut enacted earlier in the year, there is no room for Democratic spending initiatives without tapping funds generated by Social Security and Medicare taxes. But there is also no room for Republican initiatives in defense, education or farm programs. Rather than attempting to undo a tax cut that some Democrats voted for, and a few still support, the Democratic leadership seems content to force Mr. Bush and his party to stew in the juices they have cooked for themselves. 
 Virtually every poll indicates that Americans do not want Social Security and Medicare revenues tapped. The White House was able to fool many Americans into thinking that the retirement system trust funds were safe and that the tax cut was affordable. The Democratic strategists believe that some time is needed for the reality to sink in and that the message might be garbled if they get into a big fight with the White House over spending.
The goal of the Democrats is to keep saying that since it is Mr. Bush's budget and Mr. Bush's tax cut, it must be Mr. Bush's economy, too. The president, meanwhile, has been eager to define the economic downturn as something that began a year ago, before he was on the job. But since returning from vacation, Mr. Bush has not helped himself much with his confused economic message.
Campaigning around the country, he assures blue-collar workers that he is worried about the economic trends, evidently trying to show that he cares. But he cannot act because his bottom-line message remains that everything will be fine if we stick to his game plan. As for the disappearing surplus, he repeatedly tries to blame the Democrats' spending habits for that. But the bipartisan Congressional Budget Office has clearly shown that it was the tax cut that made the surplus disappear.
For the long term, the obvious solution to the budget problems is to rescind the tax cut. The Democrats currently have no desire to point that out, but reasonable people from both parties will eventually have to come together and propose altering the most irresponsible parts of the package. The best aspect of the current Democratic strategy is that it lays the foundation for the tax cut to be reconsidered. Indeed, the Republicans made it vulnerable because of the way they backloaded it, with tax cuts for the richest Americans taking effect at the end. The temptation to reconsider those parts of the tax cut could be overwhelming if it becomes obvious that the revenue could otherwise be used for specific programs that Americans want.
A sensible scheme was put forward recently by Gene Sperling, who was a senior economic adviser to President Clinton. He proposed that by rescinding some of the tax cuts affecting the wealthiest 1.8 percent of taxpayers before they take effect in coming years, Congress could free up at least $1.25 trillion over 20 years -- enough money to shore up Social Security and pay for other high-priority items, like a prescription drug program for the elderly, more spending for education or even some sort of Social Security individual accounts.
These steps could be taken while leaving in place the tax cut affecting more than 98 percent of American families and would still provide a substantial tax cut for the top 2 percent.
None of these sensible moves are likely until after another election or two. For now, it is incumbent on Americans who realize that Mr. Bush's tax cut was a mistake to communicate that view to their elected representatives in Washington. Congress will almost certainly limp through the year with a budget very similar to the one Mr. Bush has recommended. There may be enough money in the coming year to increase defense spending somewhat, though not for full financing of the administration's beloved missile defense program. In the long term, there is no way out of the straitjacket applied by the Bush administration's policies. Mr. Bush can blame others, but if he wants to change the tone in Washington, he needs to accept responsibility for the mess he created. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TRENDS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%) TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



255 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: 'Neutron Jack' Exits 

 BODY:
Jack Welch vacated the executive suite last week after a two-decade run at the helm of General Electric, one of America's most successful companies, leaving behind a remarkable record of achievement and upheaval. Mr. Welch was a white-collar revolutionary, bent throughout his career at G.E. on championing radical change and smashing the complacency of the established order. His legacy is not only a changed G.E., but a changed American corporate ethos, one that prizes nimbleness, speed and regeneration over older ideals like stability, loyalty and permanence. 
 The General Electric Mr. Welch took over when he became chief executive in 1981 was the iconic corporation of the American century, the descendant of Thomas Edison's ingenuity. It had a hand in inventing the light bulb, the electric locomotive, steam turbines, the refrigerator, electric meters and motors, the jet engine, Silly Putty and synthetic diamonds. It was also an unflappable supertanker, unfamiliar with speedy change. 
 "Fix it, close it or sell it" was Mr. Welch's favorite slogan as he ordered his colleagues to get out of businesses in which G.E. could not be a market leader. He sold off and bought hundreds of companies as he sought to refocus on high-growth opportunities, mainly by expanding the company's reach into delivering financial and consulting services. 
By not hesitating to get rid of slower performing operations, Mr. Welch engaged in what the economic philosopher Joseph Schumpeter called capitalism's "creative destruction." He earned the nickname "Neutron Jack" for dismissing 100,000 employees in his early days as chief executive. Rather than dwell on the human cost of such downsizing, Mr. Welch recalls the challenge with relish in his memoir, "Straight From The Gut," which will be published this week. One of his bequests to G.E. is the "vitality curve," which makes managers each year identify their top 20 percent of performers, who are to be nurtured, and the 10 percent who are the least productive employees, to be dismissed. 
In making the company more like himself -- brash and impetuous -- Mr. Welch also courted trouble at times. He calls the 1986 acquisition of Kidder Peabody his worst mistake. The brokerage firm, sold in 1994, was embroiled in a series of insider-trading and false-accounting scandals. More recently, G.E. has stubbornly refused to clean the Hudson River of PCB's, and the company was unable to close its $45 billion merger with Honeywell because of European antitrust concerns.
Still, the insistence by Mr. Welch and his disciples on a more decentralized, leaner approach to business is credited with helping American companies outpace foreign competitors throughout the 1990's in adapting to rapid technological change. Indeed, Mr. Welch may have an even more impassioned following in Korea and Japan, societies that still need to overcome the complacency of entrenched corporations. The management revolution he started has not ended with his retirement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); CORPORATE CULTURE (76%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (73%); ACCOUNTING (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); BOOK REVIEWS (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (63%); INSIDER TRADING (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); SCANDALS (60%); MERGERS (60%) EDITORIALS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (92%); JOHN K WELCH (79%) WELCH, JOHN F JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



256 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Like Father, Bush Is Caught in a Politically Perilous Budget Squeeze 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Eleven years ago during a fierce budget battle with Congress, President George Bush reneged on one of his main campaign promises -- his read-my-lips pledge not to raise taxes. This proved disastrous politically and contributed to his failure to win re-election.
 Now, with another bitter fight over the budget in the offing, President Bush is faced with many of the same circumstances that confronted his father, including an economy turned sour and a recalcitrant Congress. The big political questions this fall are whether the president will break his promise not to use surplus Social Security money to pay other bills and what the consequences of his decision, one way or the other, will be. 
 "There are obvious differences" between the situation in 1990 and the one now, said Robert D. Reischauer, who was then the director of the Congressional Budget Office and is now president of the Urban Institute, a research center. "But there are enough similarities," he said, "to cause the president to wake up in the middle of the night."
The president insisted this week that he intended to keep his promise. "We can work together to avoid dipping into Social Security," he told reporters at the White House. But he refused to say whether he would veto spending bills that would force the government to dip into the Social Security surplus.
Many economists and other budget specialists say they believe the president and Congress will find it impossible to keep spending low enough to avoid tapping into the Social Security trust fund.
"Everyone wants more for something, including Bush," said Stanley E. Collender, managing director of the Federal Budget Consulting Group at Fleishman-Hillard, the public relations and consulting firm. "I don't see how the president can end up saying anything but, 'I had to go along to get what I wanted. Congress forced me into it.' "
Many leading Republican strategists say the president will not yield. "There is a bipartisan bright line in the sand, a death strip he cannot cross," said Grover Norquist, an influential conservative who heads Americans for Tax Reform. "If there is anyone in the White House who thinks you can touch Social Security, I don't know who it is."
The predicament is uncannily similar to the one the president's father had to deal with in 1990. 
As is happening today, the economy was flagging in 1990 after years of prosperity. Because of the economic slowdown, because the administration's optimistic forecasts about revenues and spending were not borne out -- another circumstance eerily similar to the one today -- and because of the deficit-reduction law in effect at the time, the first President Bush had to accept one of three unpleasant options: across-the-board spending reductions in government programs of more than 30 percent; much deeper spending cuts in specific, popular government programs like Social Security and Medicare, or a tax increase. 
The president tried to get Democrats to join him in picking the bitter medicine -- just as the White House is now trying to get Democrats to join in resolving the Social Security problem. But the Democrats refused to budge in 1990, as they are refusing to move now, until the president declared which option he favored.
Finally, in June 1990, the elder President Bush opted for the tax increase, issuing a statement that "tax revenue increases" would be necessary. Three days later, he said at a news conference that "continuing economic expansion and employment in this country" were more important than a campaign promise and that "I've got to do what I think is right."
The conservative wing of the Republican Party, led by Newt Gingrich, then the House Republican whip, became apoplectic. After months of negotiations, including round-the-clock sessions in the officers' club at Andrews Air Force Base, White House aides and Congressional leaders finally struck a budget deal in September. But the House voted it down, largely because so many conservative Republicans voted against the president.
After some minor reshuffling and heavy-duty politicking, a new budget deal went to Congress, and it was approved narrowly, with a majority of Republicans in the House and Senate voting against it.
Politically, the first President Bush was never the same. Conservatives did not support him enthusiastically in his 1992 race for re-election. That caused him difficulty in the Republican primaries and was one of the factors that allowed Ross Perot to run a strong race as a third-party candidate in the general election.
Doubtless, the current President Bush would like to avoid the same political fate. That is why the president will decide to cut spending elsewhere and not reach into the Social Security fund, Mr. Norquist, the conservative strategist, said.
"He is wiser than his father because he watched his father self-destruct," Mr. Norquist said. In addition, Mr. Norquist said, no top advisers are recommending that he spend Social Security money the way two of his father's top advisers -- John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, and Richard G. Darman, the budget director -- counseled in favor of a tax increase.
But as was the case with his father in 1990, Mr. Bush has limited options this year, none of them attractive. To avoid breaching the Social Security line, he must agree to repeal part of his tax cut, withdraw his plan for more military spending or propose cutting spending for popular domestic programs.
Repealing the tax cut seems to be out of the question, and restraining military spending would mean breaking another promise and alienating an important element of his political support. A decision to cut popular programs could hurt him even more politically than using Social Security money to pay for them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President George Bush, shown at a 1988 news conference, came to be haunted by his broken "read my lips" pledge not to raise taxes. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: FLEISHMAN-HILLARD INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



257 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Setback to Arena Proposal Emboldens Its Opponents 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J., Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Now that the plan for a new $355 million arena in Newark for the Nets and the Devils is blocked in an Assembly committee, political opponents of the project here in Bergen County have grown bolder, expressing indifference to the teams' threats to leave the state if they do not get their new home.
 "I don't really care about them," said Assemblywoman Rose Marie Heck, Republican of Lodi. "I don't think they should dictate the way the world of New Jersey runs." 
 Another Bergen Republican in the Assembly, John Rooney of Emerson, agreed. "Let them move," he said. "We don't need any more corporate welfare. If the Nets and Devils get away with this and we put money into Newark, what's going to happen when the Giants' and Jets' leases are up? Are they going to blackmail us, too?" 
To the mayor of Newark, Sharpe James, and other Democratic officials there, such talk and the sudden gush of Republican opposition to the arena plan in the Assembly are so much election-year bluster. Although the bill is dormant now, sidetracked by a Republican revolt against that party's leadership in the State House, Mr. James and other supporters of a Newark arena were upbeat in their public assessment of the situation.
They said they expected the bill to be revived and passed in a lame-duck legislative session after the election for governor in November. They also said they fully expected that a fellow Democrat and supporter of the Newark arena, James E. McGreevey, would beat his Republican opponent in the election, Bret D. Schundler. Mr. Schundler helped start his party's uprising by calling recently for a statewide referendum on the arena.
"This is just gubernatorial talk now," Mayor James said of opposition to the arena. "All that's going to come to an end shortly. After the election, it'll get back to a basic arena bill. It's going to be a reality."
Assemblyman William D. Payne, Democrat of Newark, said: "When Schundler is defeated in November, we'll have an opportunity to look at this bill objectively and pass it. Once the election is over, it will become depoliticized."
Mr. Payne also said that Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco, a Republican who is the main proponent of the Newark arena plan, would have to make more concessions to soften the deep opposition from Bergen County's 10-member Assembly delegation.
So far, Mr. DiFrancesco has tried to placate the delegation's members by using the bill to provide $300 million in state money to introduce railroad lines to the Meadowlands sports complex in East Rutherford and $10 million to build a minor league baseball stadium in eastern Bergen County. Neither offer has mollified them.
Assemblywoman Heck is a strong advocate of mass transit in the Meadowlands. But she said Mr. DiFrancesco had indicated that the $300 million rail offer depended on Bergen County officials' acceptance of a state plan to demolish the Continental Airlines Arena, the home of the Nets basketball team and the Devils hockey team in the Meadowlands.
"I would never, never want the arena to go," she said.
The YankeeNets, the parent company of the Nets and the Devils, as well as of the New York Yankees, wants the Continental Arena torn down to eliminate any chance of competitors' moving to New Jersey. Mr. DiFrancesco has proposed replacing the Continental Arena with a lavish Disney-style family entertainment center and a large mall.
The acting governor has not estimated the cost of that plan or provided details on how it might be financed. 
The Bergen County executive, William Schuber, a Republican, opposes the Newark arena bill in part because the redevelopment of the Meadowlands may not be finished until 2010 or 2015, his spokesman, Thom Ammirato, said.
"The plan was getting Newark what it wanted as soon as possible, and Bergen's portion was just sort of hanging out there," he said. "All we want is fairness. Whatever you do for Newark, do for us and don't give us extended timelines of 2010 or 2015."
One of the two Democratic Assembly members from Bergen, Loretta Weinberg of Teaneck, said she opposed the DiFrancesco plan because it allowed the state to select the company to redevelop the Meadowlands without open, competitive bidding. "That's outrageous," she said.
A big question hanging over the squabble now is the seriousness of the YankeeNets' threat to move the Devils and the Nets elsewhere if the Newark arena is not built by the start of their 2004 seasons.
After the Assembly Appropriations Committee failed to vote on the arena bill on Thursday, that threat was reaffirmed by Len Coleman, chairman of Newark Sports and Entertainment, a division of the YankeeNets that is negotiating with the state on the proposed arena.
"Our proposition has been simply stated for nearly three years: If we are not in Newark, we will not be in the Meadowlands, either. And we won't be," he said in a statement.
Andrew Zimbalist, a sports economist at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., said he doubted the teams would leave the region.
"Of course they're going to make their threats," he said. "I don't see them as very viable. I think it's posturing."
Mr. Zimbalist said seven million homes in the metropolitan New York-New Jersey region have television sets, far more than in other cities that the YankeeNets might consider, including New Orleans and Louisville, each of which has about 600,000 such homes, he said. He also noted that the company wants to develop a sports channel carrying the games of the Nets, the Devils and the Yankees.
"If this is going to be a New York sports channel, these people better be playing in the New York area," he said. "You don't want to fill it for months with fishing expeditions." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SPORTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BASKETBALL (77%); WINTER SPORTS (77%); BASEBALL (72%); EXTORTION (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; BASKETBALL; HOCKEY, ICE 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (93%); NEW JERSEY NETS (93%) NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS 

PERSON: DONALD M PAYNE (79%) HANLEY, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



258 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNING FOR CITY HALL: STADIUMS; 
Giuliani Races to Help Yankees and Mets; Others Want to Wait

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is pushing to wrap up plans for two billion-dollar stadiums, for the Yankees and the Mets, before he leaves office, while the city's mayoral candidates say they are growing increasingly wary of being locked into expensive sports deals as New York's economy weakens.
 Members of the Giuliani administration have been pressing state officials to complete their negotiations with executives from both teams over an estimated $300 million in subway, highway and parking improvements for the projects. The teams have already resolved with the city many details of their respective stadium deals, keeping the Mets in Queens and the Yankees in the Bronx, according to team executives and state and city officials. They hope to announce an agreement by the end of this month, certainly before Mr. Giuliani leaves office in December. 
 "They're putting pressure on us every day," said a top state official who requested anonymity. "They're trying to get this done for Giuliani." 
But the Democratic and the Republican candidates for mayor are concerned about being forced to provide huge public subsidies for what would be the two most expensive major league stadiums in the country. Many of the candidates have already promised new funds to build housing and schools, but they are also looking at a budget deficit projected at $3 billion next year.
Ever since he took office in 1994, Mayor Giuliani, who has already built the two most expensive minor league parks, at a cost of more than $130 million, has enthusiastically supported the teams' efforts to build new stadiums.
"Clearly Rudy's aim is to bind these guys," said Fred Siegel, a professor of history at Cooper Union. "But they're going to fight ferociously on this. They want to use the money for other things and they've got an emerging budget gap. They're not going to dedicate the money for what they see as a monument to Giuliani."
At a cost of roughly $800 million each, the Yankees are proposing a new stadium in Macombs Dam Park, on the north side of the team's historic home in the Bronx, while the Mets want a new ball field with a retractable roof in the parking lot next to Shea Stadium.
According to people involved in the negotiations, the cost would be split between the city and the teams, although the price tag does not include an estimated $300 million in transportation work.
"I call on the City Council to pass an ordinance barring these deals until the next mayor and the next Council take office," said Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller and Democratic candidate for mayor. "The same ordinance should mandate a public review process."
Peter F. Vallone, the Council speaker and mayoral candidate, dismissed Mr. Hevesi's proposed ordinance as "political showmanship." But he said he had told the mayor in their weekly meetings that he had "a huge problem with putting public dollars into a profit-making institution," as opposed to infrastructure. Mr. Vallone said he did not believe that Mayor Giuliani could put together a deal that could escape public review or complete it this year.
Fernando Ferrer, another Democratic candidate, said he opposed what he described as the mayor's plan to reach "a midnight deal that is inherently against the public interest."
Herman Badillo, a Republican running for mayor, said the stadium deals should be subject to public review, although he, like most of the candidates, favors a limited but unspecified amount of public financing for new stadiums for both teams.
His rival for the Republican nomination, Michael R. Bloomberg, said through a spokesman that any stadium deal would need to include substantial private investment.
Mark Green, the public advocate, who is also running for mayor, said he opposed using taxpayer funds for new stadiums that will enrich two of the most valuable franchises in baseball. He said that it would be smart to invest in nearby roads, bridges and subways.
"I'll be damned if a lame duck is going to fiscally handcuff his successor with an expensive deal that the public opposes," Mr. Green said. "That's not democracy. I strongly oppose spending public funds for a private stadium largely because it's more important to invest in new schools, housing and transit."
Deputy Mayor Robert M. Harding, who is leading the city's negotiating team, did not return calls requesting comment.
Herbert E. Berman, a candidate for city comptroller, said that he was not necessarily opposed to financing construction of the stadiums, as long as the teams make a substantial contribution. But, he said, the stadium deals should be made by the next mayor.
Team officials expressed concern about the growing uproar. Opinion polls offered them little solace. A Quinnipiac University poll conducted in July found that New Yorkers opposed using tax dollars for new stadiums, 67 percent to 25 percent.
One team executive said the Mets and Yankees were willing to cover as much as half the cost of stadium construction and pay for annual maintenance costs, which are currently subtracted from any rent paid to the city by the teams.
"We understand we have to make a substantial contribution," one team executive said. "It'll be sizable, if not the largest in all of sports. And the city will be relieved of all operational costs."
Mayor Giuliani has long argued that new stadiums would serve as economic generators, promoting development of new hotels, restaurants and other businesses in the local neighborhoods. But most economists regard sports stadiums and arenas as poor public investments, providing a small number of seasonal jobs and having little impact on the economy. With only 81 home games a year, they say, it is unlikely that many new businesses will spring up beside a new stadium that has its own restaurants, game rooms and clothing shops.
"There's no way to economically justify a public investment," said Mark S. Rosentraub, dean of the College of Urban Affairs at Cleveland State University and an expert on sports economics. "It would be a financial windfall for the Yankees and the Mets.
"If New York did nothing and the Yankees continue to play in the Bronx," he added, "they'd still be the No. 1 grossing team in baseball."
In any event, Mr. Giuliani has been hinting since the spring that he is close to completing a deal to help build new homes for both the Yankees and the Mets. He has also supported efforts to build a new stadium for the Jets football team on the West Side of Manhattan and to move Madison Square Garden to the same site, over a rail yard.
But the negotiations with the baseball teams are much further along, though shrouded in secrecy, with Mr. Harding, the deputy mayor, and the mayor's Office of Management and Budget handling most of the details, according to people involved in the talks. The mayor's financing plan remains something of a mystery, although Mr. Vallone and other municipal finance experts say bond financing would almost certainly require approval of the City Council and the State Legislature.
"I think all New Yorkers learned a lesson from the mayor's deal over the minor league stadium in Staten Island," Mr. Hevesi said. "It was a $29 million deal that actually cost nearly $80 million. This next round of secret deals should be shelved immediately."
Fred Wilpon, the principal owner of the Mets, announced his plans for a stadium in 1998 that would include 78 luxury boxes and a retractable roof in a building reminiscent of Ebbets Field, the former home of the Brooklyn Dodgers.
George Steinbrenner, the principal owner of the Yankees, has long complained about the Bronx stadium and threatened to move to New Jersey. But over the last year, he and his team have focused their attention on a new stadium in Macombs Dam Park.
Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, who often traded barbs with Mr. Steinbrenner over his threats to relocate, favors refurbishing the existing stadium and building sports-related schools and businesses in the surrounding neighborhood as part of a broader economic development strategy.
In order to defuse public opposition to taking over Macombs Dam Park, the Yankees are planning to build a park atop a new parking garage to replace it.
The Giuliani administration had initially hoped to split the cost of the stadiums with the state and the teams, with each side providing one-third of the funds. But Gov. George E. Pataki refused, saying his administration would help with infrastructure costs, but would not provide money for stadiums that benefit privately owned teams.
Earlier in the summer, the Mets and Yankees began talks with the state over building a Metro-North rail station in the Bronx, and refurbishing subway stations and rebuilding highway ramps for both teams. According to one state official, the Pataki administration refused requests from the teams to cover the cost of demolishing the old stadiums as part of the infrastructure work.
State officials have relented, however, on demands that the state pay for new parking garages, saying that the garages could serve a public purpose by doubling as commuter parking. Although city officials were hoping to reap the parking revenues, one person involved in the talks said, the state had made it clear that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority would keep the parking fees if the state agency built the garages.
Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, said the talks were continuing, although he declined to go into much detail.
"It's natural to want to get this done as soon as possible," Mr. Gargano said.
"But we've been talking about it for years. We'll do highway, subway and parking improvements for all the people who use transportation and for the people interested in attending sports events."

GRAPHIC: Photos: City officials are rushing to conclude deals to build replacements for Yankee Stadium, top, and Shea Stadium. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times); (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times); Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani cheering on the Yankees in 1998. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); MAYORS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BASEBALL (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SPORTS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); BUDGET FORECASTS (65%); HISTORY (63%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%) BASEBALL; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (93%) BAGLI, CHARLES V; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



259 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: Sept. 2-8; 
Border Crossing

BYLINE:  By David E. Sanger

 BODY:
 It was not exacly a low profile visit as the Mexican president, Vicente Fox, became the first state visitor of the Bush administration. Mr. Fox said the United States "must" work out a deal by year's end to begin to legalize 3.5 million illegal Mexican workers. 
President Bush would like that, but he has run headlong into opposition in Congress, much of it from within his own party. Mr. Fox also talked about scrapping the Western Hemisphere defense alliance, which dates from 1947, with a new security structure that would focus on economic progress. The Bush administration, clearly a bit taken aback, said Mr. Fox was a very, very good friend -- but has yet to sign on to his timetable for change. David E. Sanger

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



260 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNING FOR CITY HALL; 
In Their Own Words

 BODY:
FERNANDO FERRER
Speaking yesterday at the National Action Network in Harlem:
 "There is a very interesting expectation in this election, that the policies of the last eight years must define the agenda for the next four. . . . If someone else believes that Rudy Giuliani is the personification of a New York resurgent, and all those policies are terrific and must continue, you need to vote for somebody else. Not me. Because I acknowledge what has not gone right. Somebody asked me about crime: 'You want to see crime back?' Oh, come on. You're going to give me a lecture on crime? Listen, I didn't grow up in a suburb of Boston. I grew up on Fox Street in the South Bronx, when it was the South Bronx." 

MARK GREEN
Remarks made yesterday during the Labor Day Parade.
 "No one stood up to Rudy Giuliani more over the past seven and a half years than I have. After a decade of divisiveness, I'm now the Democrat who is going to take on problems, not rivals, not their endorsers, not their surrogates, and I feel confident that I have enormous support in the black community and the Latino community."
"Franklin Roosevelt understood poverty better than Newt Gingrich. Our former president didn't grow up in poverty, and Newt Gingrich did. Whether or not you understand poverty is not your ZIP code or where you were brought up. It's your courage to take on hard fights and win. I don't know anyone who's done more for communities of color in the last seven and a half years than I have."

PETER F. VALLONE
Remarks made during the Labor Day Parade yesterday.
 "My whole political life has been underestimated. They said I couldn't do "Safe Streets/Safe City." When I cut a budget by $2 billion in one month, that's when I was underestimated. I've been underestimated and I'm certainly underestimated in these polls. I've been underestimated by a minimum of 20 points. I'm concerned about people in New York City who vote, not pollsters. The major thing that separates me from the other candidates is the fact that I have not only done things like "Safe Streets/Safe City," campaign finance, reducing class size; I don't have to talk about it, I've done those things and I think people are beginning to understand that."

ALAN G. HEVESI
Speaking yesterday in Union Square Park:
 "I am the manager of the comptroller's office, and we are the managers. We are the ones who audit all city agencies. We did the Y2K to make sure there was no trouble. The city is the center of the global economy. I am the representative, in effect, of the city in the global economy. We do yen deals, we do trade deals with South Africa, we do euro deals. Education is the No. 1 issue. I'm the educator. I have a Ph.D. I've been in the classroom for 27 years. None of my opponents have been in the classroom. And I've been endorsed by the United Federation of Teachers. You've got to be a fiscal expert -- that's my official designation -- as the fiscal monitor. And finally, you've got to have the best relationship with the governor and the Legislature, regardless of party, because they have to approve 75 or 80 percent of any initiative or innovation that we make. I have the best relationship coming out of the Legislature, as a member of the Assembly for 22 years."

MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG
Speaking at Frank Golden Memorial Park in College Point, Queens, and addressing a Little League picnic.
 "My No. 1 priority is education. The city already spent $12 billion out of a $40-billion budget and it looks like tax revenues are going to come down as the economy softens. And also, everybody agrees, for example, that teachers need raises."
"What Rudy did for education was he brought crime down so dramatically that the next mayor has the luxury of focusing on education. Rudy eight years ago did not have that -- you know you couldn't walk the streets. Today you can. You might not like Rudy; whether you like Rudy or not, crime is way down. It can go further, so the next mayor really has an opportunity, and if they don't focus on education it will be a terrible waste."

HERMAN BADILLO
Remarks made yesterday at the Labor Day Parade.
 "As the campaign winds down, we're beginning to find the real character of Mr. Bloomberg and that is that he is the kind of personality that cannot be trusted and should not be mayor of New York because of the remarks that he has made, but also because of his unwillingness to respond to the press . . . We all know that if you're not prepared to answer question after question after question ad infinitum from reporters, you're certainly not qualified to be mayor."
"My campaign is very simple. I have credentials and he has commercials. I have experience, he has no experience. I have been scrutinized all my life in every way for the past 40 years. He has never been held up to scrutiny and now we find out why. Because he cannot stand scrutiny. And I'm going and saying to people that they should not elect a $30-million commercial as mayor. That they should elect a real person and they should, for that reason, elect Herman Badillo."

GRAPHIC: Photos (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); US LABOR DAY (73%); BUDGETS (67%); RACE & RACISM (66%); BUDGET CUTS (62%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%) FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R; BADILLO, HERMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



261 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
U.S. vs. Microsoft: Going Back to Square One

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IT was a jarring juxtaposition. As the Bush administration decided last week to abandon the government's plan to break up Microsoft for a raft of antitrust violations, Bill Gates, the company's co-founder and chairman, was saying that the case had had no impact over the way the company designed its products or conducted its affairs.
 "There's been no interference from the lawsuit in terms of Microsoft pushing its innovation forward," Mr. Gates told The Washington Post. "I doubt there will be that interference because the laws do and should encourage innovation." 
 Indeed, the company is preparing to launch a new operating system that includes the kinds of features that have been at issue in the antitrust case.
The Justice Department's retrenchment seems to epitomize the Bush administration's belief that government should not play a decisive role in business affairs, and that, by and large, market forces should dictate how companies compete.
This conviction could also be seen in the administration's recently announced intention to relax or eliminate a host of decades-old regulations that have prevented the nation's largest broadcasters, cable companies and media conglomerates from growing bigger. The rules have kept conglomerates like AOL Time Warner from owning a television network, and big newspaper chains and cable companies from also owning local broadcasting stations. 
Until last Thursday, the Justice Department and most of the 18 states involved in the latest round of litigation had concluded that a consent decree limiting Microsoft's conduct would never be enough to restore competition to the software market. 
They saw Microsoft as an antitrust recidivist, an aggressive monopolist that two federal courts had said had bullied its rivals and abused its monopoly position in the industry. Indeed, Microsoft spent years developing its new operating system, Windows XP, which some antitrust experts say poses even more anticompetitive problems than the older systems at the center of the lawsuit. In addition to bolting in the latest version of Microsoft's Internet Explorer, Windows XP also integrates applications for processing digital photographs, instant messaging, and video and audio players. 
Nonetheless, a Republican administration that never really cared for the breakup order, and a president who has voiced impatience over protracted lawsuits, have decided on a more conciliatory course of action. 
Senior officials say that by narrowing the case and dropping the breakup request, they will shave many months off the proceedings. And they add that they are only following the guidance of a unanimous appeals court that three months ago voiced skepticism about any breakup order. 
To some who have followed the Dickensian twists and turns of the long-running case, events last week seemed eerily familiar. 
Six years ago, Federal District Judge Stanley Sporkin rejected a consent decree filed by the Justice Department and Microsoft, finding that it wouldn't work.
"The picture that emerges from these proceedings," Judge Sporkin wrote in his opinion in 1995, "is that the U.S. government is either incapable or unwilling to deal effectively with a potential threat to this nation's economic well-being." 
If he were to approve the deal, he wrote, "the message will be that Microsoft is so powerful that neither the market nor the government is capable of dealing with all of its monopolistic practices."
Accepting the proposed consent decree, the judge concluded, "would almost be the equivalent of a court accepting a probationary plea from a defendant who has told the court he will go out and again engage in inappropriate conduct."
The government and the company responded by getting Judge Sporkin thrown off the case and found a new judge to approve the decree, which, indeed, proved ineffective. 
"Microsoft has flaunted conduct remedies for years," said Mark N. Cooper, research director of the Consumer Federation of America. "The decision to take a structural remedy off the table puts the Department of Justice and the state attorneys general in the position of having to fashion an extremely aggressive set of behavioral controls that will have to be followed up vigorously."
Some antitrust experts and some state officials wonder whether, in fact, it will prove possible to curb a pervasive corporate culture through a consent decree. In any case, it will require years of close and onerous supervision by the judiciary and law enforcement, an outcome the Clinton administration and the states rejected last year in favor of a breakup.
"Judge Jackson repeatedly made clear that he did not want to be another Harold Greene," said Stephen D. Houk, a lawyer who has represented the states in the Microsoft case, referring to the judge who spent more than a decade supervising every facet of operations of AT&T after its complex consent decree was approved.
"THERE are problems with the large obstinate corporation but the judge in this situation has an awful lot of power," said John Shepard Wiley Jr., an antitrust professor at the University of California in Los Angeles who has used the Microsoft proceeding as a case study in his classes. "She has enough tools to discipline an unruly litigant. It's not an ideal world and these cases represent a genuine challenge to the judiciary. The conduct remedy may be a blunt instrument but it's certainly not impotent." 
Now in private practice, Judge Sporkin says he believes a consent decree can be fashioned to fix the problems identified by the case, particularly if it includes some tough enforcement mechanisms.
Judge Sporkin added that he is not at all troubled by the prospect of a court's spending years overseeing the company, as Judge Greene did in the AT&T case.
For their part, some prosecutors say they have taken a lesson from the government's experience with the earlier consent decree that Judge Sporkin tried to reject.
"We can learn from our experiences with the consent decrees on how to frame them and how to monitor them," said Richard Blumenthal, the attorney general in Connecticut. 
But some state prosecutors said they were concerned that the new leadership at the Justice Department would be more forgiving of the company, and they vowed to press any remedy to also include restrictions on Windows XP.
"We look forward to continuing to work with the Department of Justice in the proceedings that are about to begin before the trial court," said Eliot Spitzer, the attorney general of New York. "But we will, if necessary to protect the public, press for remedies that go beyond those requested by the Department of Justice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: One way, but which way? At night in Manhattan's financial district. (Suzaane DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); JUDGES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (71%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (65%); INSTANT MESSAGING (65%); APPEALS COURTS (63%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (91%); AOL INC (67%); WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); AOL (NYSE) (67%); WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (67%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (88%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LABATON, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



262 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Face Off; 
Which Way to Win Control of Congress?

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
TALK about shark season. Congress came back into session last week and the Democrats were circling, sensing blood in the political waters. The Republicans had an air of panic.
 Only last spring, the Democrats were unable to stop President Bush's $1.35 trillion, ten-year tax cut. But with the economy slowing, the budget surplus shrinking and President Bush in danger of having to break his pledge not to dip into the Social Security surplus, Democrats have returned to Washington crowing, "I told you so." 
 "This is the Bush budget and the Bush tax cut," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader. And Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York compared the changing fiscal climate to a bad summer movie titled "Honey, I Shrunk The Surplus." 
The "Bush budget, Bush tax cut, Bush economy" refrain will go hand-in-hand with a concerted Democratic campaign this fall to force Mr. Bush to submit a new budget -- one that reflects the new economic projections and details the politically painful choices he may have to make in response to them. 
How, for example, will he will pay for the military buildup, or expand tax breaks for health insurance, or provide a Medicare prescription drug benefit or increase education spending if the economy continues to deteriorate?
Democrats hope that raising these questions will let them seize the initiative in the autumn budget fight that is expected to set the framework for the 2002 battle for control of Congress. Nor do they plan to offer the president their own plan or answers any time soon. 
"It's really best to let him stew," said one senior Democratic Senate strategist. "And it's frankly only fair. Most of us voted against this budget and this tax cut and now we're going to come riding over the hill to save him?"
To make maximum use of their advantages, however, Democrats will need unity, a consistent message, party discipline and no missteps. 
"The Democrats have a way of stealing defeat from the jaws of victory," insists Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster. "They don't know when to shut up."
And the economy could turn around sooner than most people expect. 
"We're all speculating at this point that it's going to be a long-term downturn," said Marshall Wittmann, a Congressional analyst at the conservative Hudson Institute. "If we're on the cusp of a recovery that begins early next year, Bush will be able to sing the praises of his tax cut and the Democrats will have egg on their face."
So as both parties hold their breath and watch the economic indicators, strategists are plotting out all the political scenarios. And there are still a number of ways that Democrats might squander their advantage. Here are a few.

1. What happened to the party of public investment?
When President Clinton said "Save Social Security First" and railroaded both parties into pledging not to use Social Security taxes for anything other than paying down debt, it was a strategy designed in part to keep Republicans from passing large tax cuts. 
Now that Mr. Bush has won his tax cut and the economy is weakening, however, the inviolability of the Social Security trust fund is a brake on spending. And it is the Democrats who want a more robust Medicare prescription drug benefit than Mr. Bush does, the Democrats who are pushing for billions of dollars more for education, the Democrats who are more likely to want money for child care and health care programs.
On such issues Democrats retain the upper hand. But will they continue to do so if they can't actually get anything done? Even if they take control of Congress in 2002, will they find themselves neutered, without the cash to enact their programs?

2. Calvin Coolidge Democrats?
The Democrats' conundrum becomes worse if the country goes into a recession. Some party dissidents are already arguing that an obsession with debt relief and the Social Security trust fund during bad times risks making the Democrats look more like the party of Calvin Coolidge than of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
"I think they are building a box that could be very damaging," said Robert L. Borosage, the co-director of the Campaign for America's Future, a liberal public policy group. "If the economy continues to decline," he said, "Democrats should be arguing about unemployment insurance, about special assistance to older workers thrown out of the manufacturing sector, programs for welfare mothers who will be the first ones laid off. Instead what they are arguing is that the president should cut more money out of the budget."

3. Where's the beef?
While they can get away with blaming Mr. Bush for the budget straitjacket for a while, Democrats will eventually have to make their own proposals or else risk looking like mere partisan complainers.
Congressional Republicans want a cut in the capital gains tax rate, hoping that will stimulate the economy. What are the Democrats offering? No wonder that Mr. Daschle on Friday began speaking of the plight of the unemployed.
"They're just flapping their gums," said Representative Thomas M. Davis 3rd of Virginia, who is in charge of the House Republicans' re-election effort. "What's their answer? Their answer is to call on Bush to come up with an answer. They have some responsibility too. They control the Senate."
But it is far easier to blame Mr. Bush than to unite Democrats around a program of their own. If liberal Democrats push to switch money from the military to domestic programs, the party's southern defense hawks are likely to bolt for fear that Democrats will end up looking like McGovernites.
Similarly, if Democrats push to roll back some part of Mr. Bush's tax cut, they would need the support of the conservatives and moderates who voted with Mr. Bush in favor of the $1.35 trillion reduction. But not all of them will go along. Senator Zel Miller of Georgia was already scoffing last week at all the talk of a budget crisis and deriding government bureaucrats and spending sprees.
"We're in a good spot to start out," said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York. "But if we fracture and everyone comes out with his own plan, that's our greatest danger."

4. Tax and spend Democrats?
Even the suggestion that the tax cut should be rescinded could open the Democrats up to the charge that they just want to tax and spend. President Clinton erased this vulnerability for his party by advocating a balanced budget and speaking of fiscal responsibility and debt reduction. But during the presidential campaign Mr. Bush effectively lampooned Al Gore as the candidate of big government. 
So Mr. Daschle said there was no point in talking about reducing the tax cut since Mr. Bush would never support the move. And Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, went through all kinds of linguistic gymnastics at a news conference last week. 
He challenged Mr. Bush to submit a new budget, pointing out that Democrats had come up with their own in the spring that called for a smaller tax cut than the president's. Yet he repeatedly dodged questions about whether Democrats wanted to rescind part of the Bush tax cut.
Asked for the umpteenth time whether he wanted to roll back the tax cut, he told reporters: "I'll get you a copy of our budget. Read it. It is a good budget. It has the right priorities."
By Friday, Mr. Bush was already accusing the Democrats of being big taxers. "Tax relief is just now making its way in the economy, and there are some, it seems like, who are beginning to say, maybe we ought to raise taxes," he said at the White House, vowing he would not "let anybody pick the pockets of the American taxpayer."
Still, at least in Washington right now, everyone thinks it is the Republicans who are in peril, including the Republicans. Witness the Oval Office huddle between Mr. Bush and leaders of his party Friday as unemployment figures surged and Wall Street tumbled.
Well aware that his father lost an election because he seemed oblivious to bad times, Mr. Bush took time to step out of the Oval Office and proclaim, "The slowdown is real and it's affecting too many lives and I'm concerned about it." His father might have said it differently: "Message: I care."
"Clearly people see the economy in trouble," said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut. "And the president is sitting there and he's the guy they look to to lead on these matters." 
Mr. Bush's biggest problem, and the Democrats' biggest advantage, may be Social Security. Polls show that Americans overwhelmingly want surplus Social Security funds to be kept off-limits, and Democrats believe that uncertainty over whether Mr. Bush will leave them alone may eat away at his image, much as his father was hurt when he backed away from his "no new taxes" pledge during his own struggle over deficit reduction.
MR. BUSH pledged in the campaign and again in his first address to Congress in February that he would preserve the Social Security surplus "for Social Security and Social Security alone." But he has already abandoned a campaign promise on carbon dioxide emissions and changed his position on stem cell research. Might he -- or his party -- risk doing so on Social Security? 
The Democrats will try to exploit such vulnerabilities to take full control of the House and Senate in 2002, and they believe that history and circumstance are on their side. The president's party traditionally loses seats in off years and suffers during economic downturns, and in the Senate, more Republicans than Democrats are likely to retire before the next elections.
Of course, these scenarios are all hypothetical. This is likely to be a long drawn out budget fight, and its political consequences could surprise everybody.
"President Bush dug the hole that we're in, but we're in the hole too," Mr. Schumer admits.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (70%); MEDICARE (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (65%); EDUCATION FUNDING (65%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (51%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



263 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2124 words

HEADLINE: BUSH'S AIDES SEEK TO FOCUS EFFORTS ON THE ECONOMY 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
As White House officials move to refocus President Bush's energies on the precarious economy, they are working to present him as a more commanding leader in what may be the most treacherous stretch of his first year in the White House.
 The economic and political challenges facing Mr. Bush were underscored earlier this week when his senior adviser, Karl Rove, joined more than a dozen prominent Republicans for a private dinner and heard an unvarnished critique of Mr. Bush's style and strategy. 
 The message, delivered on Tuesday in a dark-paneled room at the Metropolitan Club, two blocks from the White House, was urgent and unambiguous: If Mr. Bush did not take more forceful steps to resuscitate the economy, he would risk repeating the mistake that brought an early end to his father's presidency. He needed to talk about economic issues differently, they said, and to spur the economy with new measures that went well beyond the recent tax cut. 
"You didn't get the sense that anyone was holding back," recalled Mark McKinnon, a Bush campaign adviser who attended the dinner.
Even before the dinner -- and before the ominous news on Friday that the unemployment rate had risen to 4.9 percent -- Mr. Bush's aides were already recalibrating his fall agenda. There will be more and more economic prescriptions, they said, diluting what was initially planned as a season devoted largely to his education agenda and talk about values under the banner of what Mr. Bush calls "communities of character."
As Mr. Bush faces narrowing economic options at home and rising challenges abroad, some of his advisers said they feared he still did not project the image of a commanding leader. These advisers cite polls showing that many people still view Mr. Bush not as decisive but as tentative and perhaps overly scripted. They say that polishing the president's performance skills is an urgent political task.
From the size of the index cards he reads from to the size of the lecterns he stands behind, Mr. Bush's handlers are seeking to make him appear as comfortable in the formal settings of the presidency as he clearly was last month at a news conference in a small community center near his ranch in Crawford, Tex.
That will become all the more critical in the next three months, his aides say, because of the politically tough choices ahead. 
"We're in the Chinese box phase" of the presidency, one of his closest advisers said.
For example, Mr. Bush seems all but certain to have to choose between scaling back some of his defense and education priorities and acknowledging the virtual inevitability of tapping into the Social Security surplus. By November or December, he must decide whether to enrage United States allies and abandon the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty -- or accept delays in his missile shield program. He must bridge a rift in his own administration over dealing with China before visiting Beijing in five weeks.

Beyond the Rebate Check
Looming over all these concerns is the sluggish economy, which has necessitated a reshaping of Mr. Bush's fall agenda. Rather than focusing on issues he most enjoys -- family values, the importance of education, personal responsibility -- Mr. Bush will concentrate on the country's economic problems. 
"Karen had a whole fall offensive lined up -- all this character and values stuff," one Bush adviser said, referring to Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's counselor. "That, I think is pretty irrelevant now," the adviser said. "We're in the process of switching the game plan."
While she disputed that she was switching signals, Ms. Hughes acknowledged, "We are maintaining some flexibility in October."
Other advisers said privately that there would be a much sharper focus than initially planned for Mr. Bush to talk about prescriptions for economic recovery, to turn the debate from the question of whether to tap into the Social Security surplus to the question of who has the best, most comprehensive plan to save the economy.
"We're aware," one senior economic adviser said, "that after this month, he can't simply keep saying, 'Did you get your $600 check in the mail?' "
Mr. Bush is driven by his determination not to repeat the mistake his father made: failing to leap ahead of sour economic news, failing to sound sophisticated and in command of the problem.
At the dinner on Tuesday -- attended by conservative stalwarts including David Keene, Haley Barbour, Kenneth M. Duberstein, Vin Weber, Charles Black, Linda DiVall, Bill Paxon, and Ed Gillespie -- several participants said they pressed Mr. Rove to get the president to act assertively. One suggestion was to cut the capital gains tax -- a step that might generate some income for the government by spurring stock sales but that would be seized on by Democrats as a tax cut for the wealthy.
They said Mr. Rove was sympathetic but noncommittal, as were two other administration officials in the room, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., who heads the Office of Management and Budget, and Nicholas Calio, the chief White House Congressional liaison.
"My job at these dinners is to take it all in," Mr. Rove said in an interview. "It's not to immediately react to everything. A number of people in the room had suggestions about things they said needed to be done for the economic growth package."
Mr. Rove disputed that Mr. Bush was entering the most challenging phase of his presidency thus far.
"I've heard that continually when he faced the cell decision, when he faced the tax cut decision, when he faced the education bill," Mr. Rove said. "A lot of people in Washington are trying to dismiss the success of the president by raising the bar higher on the next thing down the pike."
But even some Republicans have lingering concerns that on the stump with steelworkers in Pittsburgh or at Labor Day events in Michigan and Wisconsin, the president's economic prescriptions sounded simplistic, and that he lacked President Bill Clinton's well-honed skill at explaining how individual American workers can benefit from a changing world economy.
Mr. Bush has the compassion part down well. Ms. Hughes said, "He called me right after the picnic at the steel plant and said that the effects of the downturn are beginning to show up in factories and workplaces."
But in his public discourse about the economy, Mr. Bush sometimes sounds disjointed; he has trouble moving beyond a few set sentences about the relationship between free trade and the creation (not to mention the loss) of jobs in the United States. And so far, he has not developed many skills in talking to players in the financial markets, something Mr. Clinton learned from his treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin. (Mr. Bush's treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, is also viewed widely in the administration and Congress as a poor communicator of economic strategy.)
"Like most Republicans," said Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, "Bush is pretty free market, so he's working his way toward talking about the economy, and he's discovering it's quite a balancing act. If you describe the problems in the economy too bluntly, you run the risk of having people lose confidence. And yet he knows he can't understate it either."
The problem is only compounded by the Bush administration's central dilemma. With the tax cut already passed, the president is essentially out of economic ammunition. He can talk about winning authority to negotiate new trade agreements, but the economic benefits would be years away. And the traditional stimulaters available to politicians -- more government spending or more tax cuts -- would require dipping deep into the Social Security surplus.

Beyond These Shores
At the height of the October budget battles, Mr. Bush will spend 10 days in Asia visiting Japan as it faces economic crisis, South Korea as it struggles with Washington over how to talk to the Communist North Koreans, and China. The last stop, one of Mr. Bush's close Republican foreign policy advisers said the other day, "is where we'll learn how well he plays three-dimensional chess."
Mr. Bush's own party is deeply split on how to approach China, with the business community urging more and more engagement and the conservative, pro-Taiwan faction warning that China could well become the next great military challenge for the United States. That division also runs through his administration: just listen to Secretary of State Colin L. Powell wax on about the benefits of a smart political and economic engagement with China, while Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld regularly briefs the press on how a rising Chinese threat requires a greater focus on security in the Pacific.
White House insiders differ on which man has the president's ear. But they agree on one thing: Mr. Bush cannot declare, as he did the first time he met President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, that he has looked into the souls of his Chinese hosts and seen men he trusts. 
With regard to Russia, administration officials had hoped this summer to hold a quick "consultation" that would pave the way for abandoning the treaty limiting missile defenses and allow Mr. Bush to test a missile shield. By now it is clear that Mr. Putin plans to take his time, insisting that Mr. Bush first reveal how deeply he is willing to cut American nuclear forces. Around the time the two men meet at Mr. Bush's ranch in Texas, the administration will have to choose its course.
"What worries me is that they are not yet treating this issue as a foreign policy problem but rather as a missile defense issue," said Senator Hagel, a missile defense proponent. "People from the administration come up here to testify and we hear all kinds of things, but you have the sense there is no clear definition of where they are going with these big relationships, that maybe they haven't thought out all the consequences yet."
Mr. Bush is also under pressure to once again put the United States in the midst of the Middle East talks, which until now he has kept at arm's length. That risks spending a lot of energy for a potentially small reward.

Behind the Lectern
A nagging concern at the highest levels of the White House staff is Mr. Bush's communications skills, with new debate over how he can project himself as a leader while also capitalizing on his ability to charm people in smaller group settings.
Some advisers said Mr. Bush would have a more dominant public profile if he appeared at more majestic, White House-style events with the trappings of his office behind him. Others have countered that Mr. Bush would get swallowed up -- and look out of his element -- in such settings.
Ms. Hughes said that this fall the White House will continue to carry out a strategy that she, Mr. Bush and Mr. Rove devised early in the summer to be more deliberate about staging presidential events. She said there had been too many medium-sized events that did not always generate favorable coverage for the president or put him in the best light.
As an example, some White House officials cited a trip by Mr. Bush in late June to Oak Mountain State Park in Alabama, near the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains, in which he promoted conservation. Some complained that Mr. Bush appeared too scripted and that the event did not give him an opportunity to mingle with people.
By contrast, Ms. Hughes said she was pleased in August with the small events in Texas where Mr. Bush appeared in informal settings relating to ordinary Americans. From now on, she said, there will be more of a blend of those events as well as grander appearances, like his first state dinner this week, that show Mr. Bush in more of a presidential mode.
"You always work for a balance," Ms. Hughes said, "and there was a conclusion that we need to focus on bigger presidential events as well as smaller events where he focused more directly on people."
Part of the problem White House officials face, however, is that Mr. Bush appears far more relaxed and comfortable when he is in settings outside Washington, particularly at his ranch. In addition, officials said, Mr. Bush scoffs at the notion that he is stage-managed and sometimes resists efforts that could improve his performance, like practicing more with a teleprompter.
"You cannot force it," one White House official said of Mr. Bush's reluctance to use the prompter. "The bottom line is he does not want to do it every time with the teleprompter."
Another Bush adviser said, "He hates the idea of being coached and handled, just like his father did."
Senator Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, said he has seen a marked improvement in Mr. Bush's public appearances. "He is evolving into the presidential mode very comfortably. It's been an evolution, but the comfort level seems to me to increase every day."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shortly after returning to the White House from vacation, President Bush and his wife, Laura, headed for Camp David on Friday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (85%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TAXATION; REBATES; TREATIES; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; ANTIBALLISTIC MISSILE TREATY (1972); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KARL ROVE (73%) BERKE, RICHARD L; SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROVE, KARL; BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%) CHINA; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



264 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-19

U.N. Race Meeting Accord On Slavery and Mideast
After nine days of heated wrangling, delegates at the global conference on racism agreed to a document that condemns the "abhorent barbarism" of the slave trade and the "plight of the Palestinians under foreign occupation," but does not single out Israel for criticism. Still, the final language is certain to anger Israel and the United States, whose delegates abandoned the conference over criticism of Israel last week. 1

China Executing Still More
China, which routinely executes more people than all other countries combined, is in the midst of its third great wave of executions in the last quarter century. As many as 191 people have been executed in a day, according to state news media, often after they have been tortured into confessing crimes. 1

Bush May Meet With Arafat
President Bush could meet with the Palestinian leader in New York later this month but the encounter would most likely only happen if some progress was made in high-level Israeli-Palestinian talks, administration officials and diplomats said. 13

Aid Workers' Afghanistan Trial
Eight foreign aid workers, including two Americans, appeared in an Islamic court in Kabul to answer charges that they have committed the grave crime of preaching Christianity to Muslims. It was their first appearance in public since being arrested five weeks ago. 3

NATIONAL 22-39

Bush Urged to Be Forceful In Focusing on Economy
White House officials are working to refocus President Bush's energy on the nation's precarious economy and at the same time present him as a commanding leader as he faces his biggest economic and political challenges to date. 1

Christians Revive Betrothals
Some Christian youths are becoming betrothed early in relationships, not just saying no to premarital sex but also to traditional dating. 1

Curbing Junk Food at School
A growing number of states are trying to curb the rise in childhood obesity by strictly limiting the sale of soda and snack foods in schools. 1

Drug Import Plan Considered
Congress is moving to allow imports of prescription drugs from Canada, in an effort to give Americans access to lower-priced medicines. 22

City Examines Racial Issues
Cincinnati is conducting a court-ordered study to seek understanding of its racial tensions. 22

At Odds Over Airport Plans
The Chicago area is locked in a complex debate over competing plans to expand airport capacity. 24

New Findings About Sun
New observations suggest that just after the Sun was born, it erupted with storms of particles and radiation that might have influenced the formation of planets. 27

NEW YORK/REGION 41-50

Candidates Begin Final Appeals Before Mayoral Primary
The New York mayoral candidates headed into the final weekend of their primary contest with a march up Fifth Avenue and a final burst of rallies, debates and television advertisements. They are preparing not only for Tuesday's vote but for what now looms as a likely Democratic runoff in two more weeks. 1

The Democratic campaigns have been making strategic decisions about what television airtime they are buying in a way that signals who they are trying to reach. The campaigns are approaching record-setting totals in television advertising spending for a mayoral campaign. 43

Nearly all of the mayoral candidates have made housing a cornerstone of their campaigns. 45

SPORTSSUNDAY

Venus Williams Wins U.S. Open
Venus Williams defended her U.S. Open championship by outdueling her sister Serena, 6-2, 6-4. In men's semifinal action, Pete Sampras defeated Marat Safin in straight sets, advancing to today's final. Sampras will play Lleyton Hewitt, who beat Yevgeny Kafelnikov.

Chess 48
Weather 53
Sunday Q & A 39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (89%); RELIGION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (68%); ARRESTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (63%); OBESITY (62%); MAYORS (62%); DRUG PRICES (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); AIRPORTS (60%); TORTURE (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



265 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1918 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Doing Business 

BYLINE:  By Maurice Isserman; Maurice Isserman is the William R. Kenan professor of history at Hamilton College. His most recent book is "The Other American: The Life of Michael Harrington."

 BODY:
 OUT OF THE JUNGLE
Jimmy Hoffa and the Remaking
of the American Working Class.
By Thaddeus Russell.
Illustrated. 272 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $26.
 Here's my favorite Jimmy Hoffa story: In early September 1972, The Detroit News reported that Hoffa would be leaving imminently for Hanoi to secure the release of American prisoners held by the North Vietnamese. Two of Hoffa's associates from the Teamsters union had met earlier that summer with Richard Nixon's national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, and proposed the idea. They struck some kind of deal, because Hoffa faced no difficulty from the State Department in getting his passport validated for travel to North Vietnam, a country supposedly off limits to all but officially sanctioned American visitors. 
Perhaps the Nixon administration reasoned that Hoffa, with years of experience under his belt as president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, would prove a hard-nosed negotiator. Still, it was an unusual assignment for a private citizen -- not to mention a recently paroled felon. Barely six months earlier, Hoffa had walked out of Lewisburg Federal Penitentiary in Pennsylvania, freed by President Nixon's executive grant of clemency after serving four years and nine months of his original 13-year sentence for jury tampering and pension-fund fraud. Critics of the administration suggested that Hoffa's travel plans might be part of an election-year payoff to the Teamsters (the one major union endorsing the president's re-election) and prelude to a full presidential pardon that would allow Hoffa to return to the Teamster presidency.
In any event, when the story broke prematurely, Hoffa quickly canceled his plane reservations, and the State Department disavowed his passport validation. This was followed by a flurry of official denials in Washington -- from Kissinger, who said that he had opposed the idea of using Hoffa as a negotiator from the start; from Attorney General Richard Kleindienst, who denied reports that he had interceded with Hoffa's parole board to win its permission for the trip; and from the White House press secretary, Ron Ziegler, who denied that President Nixon knew anything at all about the arrangement. (Ziegler would get a lot of practice over the next several years offering similar denials on his president's behalf.) Hoffa never got his full pardon. 
Overlooking the moral squalor, what a splendid comic spectacle. Were there an Olympic competition for cynicism, could one imagine a dream team more formidable than that gathered on this occasion: Nixon, Kissinger, Kleindienst, Ziegler -- and Hoffa?
You will not find my favorite Hoffa story in Thaddeus Russell's new work of biography and labor history, "Out of the Jungle: Jimmy Hoffa and the Remaking of the American Working Class." Nor, in a more substantial omission, will you learn about the tens of millions of dollars in Teamster pension funds that flowed during the Hoffa years into mob-controlled casinos in Nevada and similar ventures in Florida and California -- a financial collaboration that, in the words of the labor historian Robert Zieger, "helped make the very name 'Teamsters' anathema to labor activists and union critics alike." What you will find is a historian's equivalent of the full presidential pardon Hoffa hoped to get from President Nixon.
Russell, who teaches American history at Barnard College, initially wrote "Out of the Jungle" as a doctoral dissertation at Columbia University. Like many such endeavors by young scholars, this book sets out to overthrow the dominant orthodoxy in its field, in this case interpretations put forward since the 1960's in the name of the "new labor history." The new labor historians, favoring a history-from-the-bottom-up approach to their subject, have been drawn to eras of intense conflict between workers and employers like the the 1930's, and have emphasized working class "agency" -- that is, the ability of ordinary workers at certain junctures in American history to change society through their own actions. 
Russell believes that these historians have skewed the actual history of the American labor movement to the left -- or, in his terminology, toward a "corporatist" bias, overemphasizing the importance of the big industrial unions like the United Auto Workers, which sought social power for the workers in order to do good in and for society. The more traditionally oriented "pure and simple" trade unionists, who could be found in craft unions like the carpenters or the Teamsters, have been slighted by comparison. 
"The practitioners of the new labor history," Russell writes, "have produced countless studies of the unions of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (C.I.O.), which emerged out of the American Federation of Labor (A.F.L.) in 1935, but only a pitiful few on the affiliates of the A.F.L. after the split. . . . This disparity is particularly curious when one considers that even at the height of the C.I.O.'s growth, the A.F.L. was three times larger in membership, and that on its own terms the A.F.L. could be considered the most successful working-class organization in American history."
Whether the anti-A.F.L. bias among labor historians is as pronounced as Russell suggests seems questionable; in a footnote to this passage he lists a half-dozen substantial works on A.F.L. unions or leaders published in recent years (while omitting some others he might have included, like Zieger's study of the Pulp and Paper Workers Union in the 1930's). But it is certainly true that the Teamsters, the largest A.F.L. affiliate (and, by the time Hoffa was preparing to set off for Hanoi, the largest union in the United States), has been understudied -- except by journalists and other critics more interested in its criminal record than its history as a labor organization. Russell's motives in seeking to redress this imbalance are certainly commendable.
The history of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters predates Hoffa's personal involvement by 40 years. It was founded as an A.F.L. affiliate in 1899, when most of its members were driving horse-drawn milk, bakery, coal and ice trucks. When Hoffa was hired on as an organizer in Detroit in the early 1930's, the union itself was still very much a horse-and-buggy operation. Unlike industries such as autos and steel, where unions struggled against a few huge national corporations, trucking was a fiercely competitive, decentralized industry. Local Teamsters leaders were pretty much left to their own devices by the national union in recruiting workers and winning contracts. 
Hoffa made it his life's mission to banish chaos from the trucking industry. His ambition was to organize everything on wheels (and a good deal more) by building a centrally organized union, one that was powerful enough to impose standard national contracts on thousands of local employers. And he was none too scrupulous about the means by which he would reach this goal.
One of the main things that truckers hauled out of Detroit was, of course, automobiles. Hoffa's Local 299 set out to organize the car-haul trucking companies in the mid-1930's. As Russell describes the process:
"Rather than devoting their time to signing up workers and petitioning for representation elections," the Teamsters "preferred a two-step strategy that was far more effective against the small and scattered car-haul companies. The local's business agents first approached the owner of a firm and told him that if he did not enroll his employees with the union his trucks would be bombed. Next, if the employer refused to capitulate, they bombed his trucks." 
The result, according to Russell, was that the Teamsters "gained a reputation as the most violent, lawless union in an unusually violent, lawless city." The union's reputation for favoring violent tactics (against rival unions as well as employers), and for fostering an internal culture of corruption, kickbacks, sweetheart contracts and dealings with the underworld, would only grow in the years to come as Hoffa continued his rise through Teamsters ranks, finally securing election as president of the union in 1957. 
Although he plays down accounts of Hoffa's "clandestine dealings with Mafia godfathers," regards him as the victim of "demonization" at the hands of government investigators and dismisses previous biographies as conspiracy-mongering tracts by anti-Hoffa partisans motivated chiefly by a "fanatical hatred" of their subject, Russell does not pretend that Jimmy Hoffa was an angel. The man who emerges from the pages of "Out of the Jungle" was simply no better and no worse than he needed to be to accomplish his twin goals of enriching himself and improving the wages and conditions of the rank and file of the Teamsters union. Russell approvingly quotes one teamster's reaction to Hoffa's conviction for plundering union pension funds: "Hoffa did steal from us, but he also gave us a hell of a lot. For what he did for the driver, I'd take a chance on him again. If he robbed a little, what the hell."
For a book that promises in its subtitle to discuss the "remaking of the American working class," it's disappointing that all we learn about that working class -- insofar as it was represented by members of the Teamsters union -- is that they admired Jimmy Hoffa. Rank-and-file teamsters are nearly invisible in this account, as they were during the Hoffa years in running their autocratic union. The question of union democracy does not engage Russell, who writes, on slender evidence, that Teamsters members "happily declined to share in the management of the union." Teamsters solidarity "came not from devotion to a cause greater than the union, but from the benefits they received from it."
Labor leaders -- and the historians who write about them -- neglect the bread-and-butter concerns of ordinary workers at their peril. But Russell constructs a misleading dichotomy in his defense of Hoffa. He writes as if the choice facing American workers was between unions led by pragmatic thugs on the one hand and otherworldly saints on the other. Walter Reuther, president of the United Automobile Workers in the years Hoffa led the Teamsters, is Russell's prime example of the latter, a dyed-in-the-wool "corporatist" who nattered on endlessly about irrelevant concepts like industrial democracy. 
"According to Reuther," Russell declares, "unions should not be considered as vehicles for material gain. 'If the labor movement is not an instrument of social change, it is nothing,' he said in an attack on union leaders who shared Jimmy Hoffa's economistic philosophy." 
If Reuther had truly believed that "material gain" was unimportant, he would not have long remained leader of one million-plus members of the United Automobile Workers -- a union that, unlike the Teamsters, preserved a strong tradition of internal dissent and rank-and-file democracy from the heady days of 1930's organizing. From 1947 through 1960, under Reuther's leadership, average wages for a member of the union climbed dramatically, while the fringe benefits enjoyed by auto workers, including health insurance and pensions, were the envy of other unions (including the Teamsters).
The goals of social change and material gain do not require an either-or choice by the labor movement and its leaders. That Hoffa thought otherwise was just another of his flaws. He wasn't worthy of Nixon's presidential pardon in 1971; he isn't worthy of Russell's historical pardon in 2001.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jimmy Hoffa addresses a Teamsters rally in New York City, 1962. (The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PAROLE (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); SENTENCING (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); PRISONS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); FELONIES (72%); PARDONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); JURY TRIALS (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (56%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (73%); VIET NAM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2001 



266 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
The Wonder Years: Homework Is Free Online

BYLINE:  By LAURIE J. FLYNN 

 BODY:
With summer over and school in full swing, Kenneth Sahr is finding the faltering economy is having little impact on demand for his service.
 More than 10,000 people visit his site each day, and many come back several times a week. Page views have reached two million a month, with demand for this site rising at an annual rate of 10 percent. And if he was not already notorious enough, late last month Mr. Sahr embarked on a publicity campaign to attract even more attention to his Web site. 
 Mr. Sahr runs schoolsucks.com, a Web site for students that for the last five years has offered essays, book reports, term papers and even doctoral dissertations for easy downloading. Some 5,000 pieces of homework posted directly on the site are available free, but the site also links to other term paper sites that charge as much as $8.95 a page. (Custom paper sites charge as much as $20 a page.) 
Since the site went into operation in 1996, Mr. Sahr has become perhaps the most public -- and in some quarters, most reviled -- symbol of the online homework industry, aggressively promoting his venture while the educational community bemoans the growing problem of plagiarism. One of the site's mottos is "Where the men are men and the teachers are nervous."
Critics point to statistics that indicate plagiarism is on the rise, abetted by Web sites like Mr. Sahr's. 
One watchdog group, Plagiarism .org, has a service called TurnItIn .com, which enables teachers to submit student papers to check for evidence of cribbing. The group, based in Berkeley, Calif., estimates that fully one-third of the high-school papers it examines contain at least some material copied from Internet pages. 
Donald McCabe, a professor at Rutgers University and founder of the Center for Academic Integrity, says plagiarism from the Web is most rampant in high school. In a recent survey he conducted, nearly half of high school students admitted to having plagiarized from an online source to some extent. 
Mr. Sahr said his customers ranged in age from about 12 to 25, most of them middle-school and high-school students. Of the 10,000 visitors to his site every day on average, he said, 8,000 are from the United States, 1,000 are Canadian and the remainder are from other countries. Anyone can log onto schoolsucks .com and download any of 5,000 free research papers on topics as diverse as the Magna Carta and encephalitis, sometimes even in Hebrew or French. 
Rather than plagiarism, Mr. Sahr argues, what his site really offers students is a mixture of research and inspiration. The site helps intimidated students "get their feet wet," he said, providing bibliographies and research material. Besides, he insists, students would not use his Web site to plagiarize material because it would be too easy for teachers and professors to check the site themselves. 
Mr. Sahr even offers a public-service defense of his business. The generally poor quality of the homework available for free on his site, he said, should send a red flag to educators that something is seriously wrong with today's schools.
"We're the connection," Mr. Sahr said. "This is the end result of our educational system." 
Mr. Sahr said that he and his two partners, Yasha Harari and Nimrod Carmi, did not exercise quality control. Anything and everything gets posted, he said, except for the occasional violent essay or anything that proselytizes for a political cause. As a result, a student downloading an essay has no way of knowing if the paper received an A or an F. "We tell people, 'You could be downloading garbage, and you probably are,' " Mr. Sahr said. 
The Sahr site is only one of dozens of so-called digital term paper mills. But its database of free papers is widely considered one of the largest online, with students submitting 50 to 100 new ones each month. Cheater .com and Cheathouse.com (which also calls itself the "Evil House of Cheat") offer both free and for-pay papers, while most other sites charge by the page, in addition to accepting advertising.
The Sahr site features a dozen or so advertisers, including for-pay term paper sites, an online gambling business and eBay. Mr. Sahr says the site has been profitable, in part, because it incurs very few expenses. He said he and his partners were the sole investors and intend to remain so. 
The idea for the site came to Mr. Sahr when he was a journalism student at Miami International University, he said, and saw firsthand the "mediocrity" of the educational system. Mr. Sahr, who is 30 and holds dual American and Israeli citizenship, divides his time between Tel Aviv and Miami. The company was founded in Florida, but is now run from Israel, where it has developed a Hebrew language site of its own. 
For Mr. Sahr and his partners, the question now is just how to capitalize on the current popularity of their brand. They are considering expanding the site to pick up the audience of some teen portal sites that have gone out of business, presumably by adding more youth-oriented material and community features. 
"Students will listen to school sucks.com, more than they will their parents," he said. "They feel free communicating here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The site's owners, Kenneth Sahr, right, and Yasha Harari, hold a business meeting on a Tel Aviv beach. Their site, which warns of the quality of the homework up for grabs, still draws two million page views a month. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times); An advertiser on Mr. Sahr's site sells research papers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLAGIARISM (92%); HOMEWORK (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL CHEATING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STATISTICS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (65%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HOMEWORK; PLAGIARISM; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: SCHOOLSUCKS.COM 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE J; SAHR, KENNETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



267 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
The possible sale of Blue Mountain Arts could lead to the end of the free online greeting card.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
IS Blue Mountain Arts up for sale? 
 Now that Excite@Home is entertaining any and all serious offers for its media properties in an effort to keep bankruptcy lawyers at bay, the future of Blue Mountain Arts, the electronic greeting card service it bought for $780 million in 1999, is very much in question. 
 Consistently one of the World Wide Web's most highly visited sites, Blue Mountain has generated a huge following among those who regularly send free animated missives to friends and family members. 
The "free" designation was, of course, meaningless to Excite or anyone else in 1999. The stock price of the company, formally the At Home Corporation, soared amid speculation that online advertising would continue to grow. As long as Excite added so-called sticky features, meant to keep people on the Web site long enough to bombard them with advertisements, the business's fiscal health was seen as virtually assured. 
Or so the thinking went, as Excite acquired Blue Mountain in a deal that included $350 million in cash. (Incidentally, that figure is roughly twice the amount of Excite's market value as of late last week.) Since then, the "sticky" strategy has backfired, with many online media companies stuck paying millions for editorial and technology teams to pump information out to the public, while advertisers stand by with checkbooks closed. 
Still, Blue Mountain has value, analysts said, particularly to other electronic greeting card companies. Echoing a well-circulated rumor, Jeffrey Stein, a managing director at McDonald Investments, a financial firm based in Cleveland, said he "wouldn't be shocked to see American Greetings buy Blue Mountain and try to consolidate that market." 
Neither At Home nor American Greetings would comment on the possibility of such a deal, although Charles Fink, president of AmericanGreetings.com, said last week that the company was on the verge of making a "pretty dramatic announcement" -- the details of which he would not discuss. 
American Greetings, with annual sales of $2.5 billion, is the second-largest greeting card company, behind Hallmark. The company has already acted as consolidator this year. In March, American Greetings paid about $28 million to buy eGreetings.com, which at one time was the fourth-most visited electronic greeting cards site, according to Net Ratings, an Internet tracking firm. 
If American Greetings does acquire Blue Mountain, its total online audience for greeting cards would more than double that of its nearest competitor -- eUniverse's Flow go.com, which also offers free online cards. 
Given such a position of dominance, Mr. Stein, of McDonald Investments, said American Greetings could hasten the end of free online cards for consumers. Mr. Stein said the company had an "extremely profitable online greeting card business three years ago, where consumers paid as much as $19 for six months of unlimited access to the e-cards." 
"They were getting a very high renewal rate, too," Mr. Stein added, "but they were forced into the free model when Blue Mountain came along and gave the product away. If they could stick it out, it would eventually be a profit center for them." 
Hallmark.com, too, charged for each e-card sent before Blue Mountain came along. Since then, the company has given away its cards, as well. Hallmark has indicated that it is not currently interested in bidding for Blue Mountain. 
While Blue Mountain led the market toward the advertising model, the e-card industry has not necessarily relied solely on advertising revenue. To help replace revenue lost from user fees, most of the online greeting card sites in recent months have begun selling gifts to go with the cards.
For instance, on BlueMountain.com, users can send a $20 box of Dan's chocolates or a $3,200 Sharper Image recliner, among the selections, to punctuate an e-mailed card with a singing rabbit or a dancing flower. The undisclosed commissions Blue Mountain extracts from each sale have turned into a "significant revenue stream" for the company, according to Londonne Corder, an Excite@Home spokeswoman. 
Hallmark.com has a similar program in place, in which online customers buy gift certificates from the Gift Certificate Center, a company Hallmark acquired last year. It sells gift certificates redeemable at more than 400 retailers.
But even those sources of revenue are not nearly enough to make a standalone e-card venture profitable, analysts said. In the case of Blue Mountain, simply the cost of keeping the site running would be huge, said Sean Kaldor, an analyst with Net Ratings. 
In July, Mr. Kaldor said, 11.5 million people visited the site, viewing 218 million Web pages. "So if you add up the cost of the servers and everything you need to make sure the site's reliable, the cost has to be quite oppressive," he said. 
Adding to that the design and production costs for the cards, and the salaries of the advertising and marketing staff, the economics of an entirely free site did not look viable in the long term, analysts said.
Mr. Fink, of AmericanGreetings.com, does not necessarily agree with the speculation that his site will return to an all-paid model. He said the site already included a paid service called the Platinum Club, in which members pay $20 for, among other things, six months of access to exclusive e-cards. 
"That's been a robust revenue stream for us," Mr. Fink said, "and we'll continue to explore ways to enhance our subscription program. But a large portion of our cards will always be free." 
But John Sullivan, of Hallmark.com, said he could envision an environment in which consumers would again pay for the privilege of sending e-cards. "It's not viable in the near future," Mr. Sullivan said. "But as time goes on, and as some people aren't able to make money from this and others fall away, that's a possibility." 
For now, Mr. Sullivan said, the company has various reasons to stay out of the bidding for Blue Mountain Arts -- not the least of which is the possibility that Blue Mountain's inventory of e-cards may not be worth much a year from now.
"They have thousands of e-cards that are great today, but a year from now, that library will be meaningless," Mr. Sullivan said. "With so many broadband users coming on, those cards will look like the old Pong game."
And though he acknowledged the value of the Blue Mountain brand, Mr. Sullivan said, "Eventually, the good content will win." 
Meanwhile, Mr. Sullivan said Hallmark was content to use its e-cards as a supporting player in the overall business, which itself is diversifying beyond cards to include gifts. Analysts said such a move was necessary, because the greeting card industry has been consistently shrinking in recent years, as e-mail, cell phones and higher prices have pushed many consumers away from paper greeting cards.
The same is true for American Greetings, analysts said, as it searches for revenues from products like calendars, designer stationery and business cards. Consumers who come to the site for free e-cards are prime targets for such goods. 
And given the price Excite might be willing to sell Blue Mountain for, such a strategy could pay off, if the buyer can run the site at a reduced cost. Given the advertising contracts Blue Mountain is committed to, and the cost of running the site now, "Excite might get to the stage where they'd pay someone to take it off their hands," said Doug Shapiro, an analyst with Banc of America Securities. 
"I don't think it's going to happen," he said, "but it could be like, 'Please take Blue Mountain Arts, and by the way, here's 10 bucks.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hallmark.com once charged money for its e-cards, like this one created by Lainie Bassett in Kansas City, but since Blue Mountain went online, Hallmark's cards have been free. (Don Ipock for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); GREETING CARD PUBLISHING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); LAWYERS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WEB SITES (71%) GREETING CARDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (83%); AT HOME CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EXCITEATHOME; BLUE MOUNTAIN ARTS; AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP 

TICKER: AM (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



268 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Companies Sharply Reduce Orders for Tools 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
Orders by American companies for machine tools fell in July to levels comparable with the recession years 1980 and 1981, two trade groups said today. 
 Bookings for such power-driven equipment as lathes and mills dropped 18.7 percent in July, to $191.9 million, from June, according to the Association for Manufacturing Technology and the American Machine Tool Distributors' Association. 
 The 13-month slump in manufacturing "has slowed real investment in new manufacturing technology to the lowest point in decades," said Don Carlson, president of the technology association. 
"The current low level of spending," Mr. Carlson said, on new, productivity-enhancing technology is jeopardizing America's economic growth." 
Compared with the first seven months of last year, orders were down 29.3 percent, to $1.67 billion. 
The trade groups estimated that orders have fallen below levels seen in 1980 and 1981, based on numbers collected using a different method. The associations began using a new survey in 1997. 
The United States economy went through a six-month recession in 1980 and began a 16-month contraction in July 1981. 
By region, orders fell 52.7 percent in the central United States, to $27.4 million; 41 percent in the Northeast, to $23.4 million; and 9.5 percent in the West, to $26 million. Orders increased 12.8 percent in the Midwest, to $81.2 million. 
Machine tools are used to make parts, from tractor hoods to airplane wings. Analysts watch the tools report to help gauge production. The report looks at orders for domestic and foreign-produced machine tools. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY WHOLESALERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%) MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS' ASSOCIATION (57%) ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY; AMERICAN MACHINE TOOL DISTRIBUTORS ASSN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



269 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: In Oregon, a City Provides Public Land for Homeless 

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Sept. 6 

 BODY:
As one who calls himself both homeless and a resident of the tent city known as Dignity Village, Ibrahim Mubarak has gotten used to moving along.
 Six times in the last 10 months, Mr. Mubarak and his fellow urban campers have been ordered to pack up their dirt-streaked tents and tarpaulins, shopping carts, portable stoves and ramshackle furniture and move off the public land in Portland where they had set up quarters illegally. 
 Each time, they moved to a new spot and broke the law again. It was a risk Mr. Mubarak and 70 or so other campers were willing to take to avoid what he called the "oppressive, depressive, repressive environment" of public shelters. 
Now, though, as they erect their camp with its large yellow Dignity Village flag yet again, they are doing so with official sanction. In an unusual move that has stretched the definition of public services for the homeless, Portland has provided a patch of land for the tent city and put in a water hookup and portable toilets.
The site is no paradise. The new Dignity Village is a fenced-in block of asphalt in a corner of the city's leaf composting operation, just a few hundred yards from a runway at the Portland International Airport. On the other side of the tents is a state prison.
It is almost two miles to the nearest convenience store, and a 40-minute bus ride to downtown Portland.
While some homeless men and women have refused to move to the new site, which one of them called a "concentration camp," about 40 have taken the city up on the offer. Some said they much prefer it to the most recent location under an interstate highway bridge in northwest Portland. They were ordered off that spot by the state Transportation Department, which owns the land.
Abram Atwood, 31, an unemployed construction worker who lived under the bridge before moving to the current tent city, said the traffic noise there was worse than the sound of jets.
"It's actually quieter out here," he yelled, as a United jet roared overhead. "It was so quiet after the planes stopped for the night last night, I could hardly get to sleep."
The new site, known as Sunderland Yard, is only temporary, and the campers may well not find it so appealing in few weeks, when the city's leaf collection resumes. Officially, the residents of the tent village will be allowed to stay for 60 days, while the city explores other locations for a more permanent site.
In some cities, the very idea of negotiating with the homeless and accommodating their settlements would seem counterproductive. Public sympathy for homeless people might have been scant. And as officials elsewhere have sometimes learned, the more welcoming a city is, particularly if it is a desirable place to live, the more homeless people migrate there.
In Portland, the tent city has attracted a fair amount of support, and with few officials wishing to appear unsympathetic or unwilling to compromise, there has been reluctance to shut the tent city entirely.
Last week, the City Council voted 4 to 1 to negotiate with the homeless on a one-year project that would allow the tent city to continue at a still undetermined site as long as the encampment demonstrated that it could "meet the needs of homeless people and help them move to more appropriate housing."
That move, while not directly sanctioning a permanent homeless campground, could pave the way for a resident-run tent city to remain in place. While other cities have informally tolerated encampments of the homeless and have even sanctioned temporary tent cities, Portland could be setting the stage for sanctioning a permanent arrangement.
"We begin something very different in Portland today," the mayor, Vera Katz, said. "It's a risk that all of us are taking."
Dignity Village consists mainly of homeless single men, though a few women and couples live in the tents. Most speak of being down on their luck or unable to find or keep a job, and some are "trying to move away from crime or drugs or prostitution," said Mr. Mubarak, 45, who has emerged as a spokesman for the group, often conducting business from a used office chair outside his tent. Mr. Mubarak said he had been homeless for 11 years, living here and in Chicago; Gary, Ind.; Nashville; Atlanta; Billings, Mont.; Iowa; and Oklahoma.
Most residents said they preferred tents to the crowded shelters, which they said forced people into regimented schedules, and did not allow pets.
"I'd rather live this way," said Jeff Roderick, 39, who said he lived with his girlfriend, a cook at a fast-food restaurant, and a tabby kitten.
Although the Dignity Village residents had voted among themselves not to leave the site under the interstate bridge, creating fears of a confrontation, most moved without incident when the deadline arrived on Wednesday. Some of those who did not move to the new site right away went back to shelters or the streets.
But even they now seem to be gravitating to Dignity Village, where a handmade sign under the flag says: "Foxes have lairs, birds have nests, but the son of man has no place to make his home."
The camp has already received several loads of donated food, and residents are hoping to secure a trailer with pay phones. Still, the site is temporary, and no one is sure where Dignity Village will wind up next.
"There are people who just won't go to the shelters, and this is about the only place left to go," said a man who gave his name as Minnesota Mike and his age as 60, and said he was homeless because he could not find a place to live on his monthly $557 disability check. "So we'll have to be somewhere, whether people like it or not."

GRAPHIC: Photos: J. P. Cupp settled into the tent city for the homeless in Portland, Ore. (Associated Press); Abram Atwood, who lived under a highway bridge before moving to the tent city near the Portland airport, said, "It's actually quieter out here." (John Gress for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); EVICTION (78%); AIRPORTS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); CONVENIENCE STORES (50%) HOMELESS PERSONS; EVICTIONS 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (94%) OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) PORTLAND (ORE)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



270 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
 A.I.G. Settles Dispute Over Korean Investment
The American International Group has resolved a dispute with Hyundai Securities that appears to remove a major obstacle to the $850 million takeover of the financial units of the Hyundai Group. The investment would be the largest investment ever by a foreign company in Korea's financial sector. Page C2.

Editor's Letter Raises Questions
In mid-August, when it was unclear which news organizations would get interviews with the embattled California congressman, Gary A. Condit, The San Francisco Chronicle, like many others, was pitching itself as the best place for Mr. Condit to break his silence. But its pitch has raised ethical questions about the separation of The Chronicle's newsroom from its editorial department. C2.

Trying to Rationalize a Merger
Forget about personalization, portals and push. Today's mantra in information technology is services. Most analysts have been skeptical about the proposed merger of Hewlett-Packard and Compaq Computer. But those who see value in it base their assessment on the prospect that the merged company will build up its business in providing information technology services. New Economy. C4.

Product Use for Accuracy's Sake
At first glance, it looks to be the most elaborate product-placement deal since Madison Avenue was a dirt road. In the World War II mini-series "Band of Brothers," there are so many scenes featuring the vehicles now sold under the Jeep name that no one seemed to have an exact count.
 Although estimates range from 600 to more than 1,000 -- none, it turns out, are the result of product placement. The jeeps are there for historical verisimilitude, representing the myriad vehicles built in the 1940's. Stuart Elliot: Advertising C8. 

Homework Is Free Online
More than 10,000 people visit the Web site of Kenneth Sahr each day, and many come back several times a week. And if Mr. Sahr was not already notorious enough, he has embarked on a campaign to attract even more attention to his Web site, which offers essays, book reports, term papers and even doctoral dissertations for easy downloading. C4.

Uncertain Future for Online Cards
Now that Excite@Home is entertaining any and all offers for its media properties, the future of Blue Mountain Arts, the online greeting card service, is in question. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report C6.

Video Heroines With Personality
In Kenneth Perlin's vision of the future, video game heroines will be endowed with the psychological complexity of Emma Bovary, the nuanced physicality of Juliette Binoche, or the social cunning of Alice Roosevelt. And though the characters will be the creations of human programmers, they will also have a certain amount of ersatz free will to act and interact in their own virtual universes. Patents C2.

Foreign Buyers for German Cable
In back-to-back deals, one announced last week and one that could be announced today, two companies are paying about $7 billion to buy 80 percent of the cable systems in Germany. Liberty Media, headed by John C. Malone, will have 10 million of the 17 million cable subscribers in Germany. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,605.85 down 343.90Nasdaq composite -- 1,687.70 down 117.7310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.78% down 0.05The euro -- $0.9064 down 0.0055The dollar -- 120.07 yen up 1.27 Graph: "TODAY" shows consumer borrowing from January-June. July figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +$3.4 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); MERGERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (88%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (87%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (87%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (87%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); WEB SITES (76%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); ETHICS (69%); NEW ECONOMY (68%); PATENTS (68%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (68%); WORLD WAR II (65%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); HYUNDAI GROUP (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: JULIETTE BINOCHE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



271 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 482 words

PERSON: Robert R. Nathan 

HEADLINE: Robert R. Nathan, 92, Dies; Set Factory Goals in War 

BYLINE:  By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
Robert R. Nathan, an economist who helped lead the nation's industrial mobilization in World War II, died on Sept. 4 at a group home in Bethesda, Md. He was 92 and lived in Bethesda.
 Mr. Nathan spent most of the 1930's with the Commerce Department before becoming chairman of the War Production Board's planning committee in 1942 at age 33. 
 In the years before the United States entered World War II, Mr. Nathan often criticized what he called the nation's lackadaisical approach to increasing production.
Mr. Nathan was often thought to resemble the fighter Primo Carnera, and he had a pugnacious personality to match his appearance. During the war, Mr. Nathan not only set production goals but helped achieve them by finding ways to increase factory production.
In a four-page article on Mr. Nathan in 1942, Life magazine wrote: "His greatest usefulness is as a 'needler.' He goes prowling through a great bureaucratic organization, looking for sour spots and needling the individuals responsible. For instance he may find, as he recently did, that the refrigerator manufacturers had been given several months leeway to keep on making electric refrigerators. To Nathan this means not only waste of steel but waste of production facilities which might be turning out searchlights and gun mounts."
The Life article said that Mr. Nathan enjoyed spending Sunday afternoons driving around the Washington area in his red Pontiac convertible, heckling slow-moving truck drivers.
Raised in Dayton, Ohio, Mr. Nathan worked his way through the University of Pennsylvania by selling silk stockings and telephone memo pads and by working in a factory at night. After receiving a master's degree in 1933, he joined the Commerce Department, working on studies of national income.
In 1946, Mr. Nathan left government service and started an economic consulting firm, Robert R. Nathan Associates, where he served as chairman until last month. Mr. Nathan's firm has conducted studies for industry associations and federal agencies and has had as clients the governments of several countries, including El Salvador, Israel and Vietnam.
For a time in the 1950's, Mr. Nathan served as chairman of Americans for Democratic Action, a liberal advocacy group. In that position, he often criticized the Eisenhower administration for its conservative policy making and supported a more liberal approach. In 1959, for instance, the group called for undiminished contributions to the United Nations, an expanded foreign aid program, a Congressional pledge of full employment and a 67 percent increase in the minimum wage.
In 1968, Mr. Nathan served as an adviser to Hubert H. Humphrey's presidential campaign.
Mr. Nathan is survived by his wife, Mary T. Nathan of Bethesda; three children, Richard A. Nathan of Burbank, Calif., Ann L. Nathan of Clarksburg, Md., and David A. Nathan of Coatesville, Pa.; and a granddaughter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert R. Nathan (Paul Conklin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WORLD WAR II (90%); LIBERALISM (85%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); TRUCK DRIVERS (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

NATHAN, ROBERT R; SCHIESEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (54%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



272 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
Jimmy That 'Lockbox'

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In the fog of economic war, one incontrovertible truth is clear: the budget projections of Congress and the White House will continue to be horrendously out of whack.
 A decade ago, huge deficits were predicted "as far as the eye could see"; never happened. A few months ago, the same savants saw huge surpluses far into the baby boomers' geezerhood; now their surplus prediction is in free fall. Lesson in humility: The economic eye cannot see that far. 
 Here is a bedrock principle about the role of government in the economy: When prosperity booms, the government should apply a brake by running a surplus. Conversely, when recession looms, the government should press the accelerator by running a deficit. That subtraction or addition to aggregate demand is called "raising Keynes." 
Thus, when happy days are here, government should surely slow the growth of spending; when harder times are on the way, the feds should spend more and tax less. 
Will this enable Washington to tootle a fine tune of steady, full-employment growth without inflation? No; the feds control only a fifth of the nation's product and can only lean against the changing wind. That's because the business cycle's lungs need to exhale from time to time, blowing out the inefficient producers and the foolhardy investors. The hot breath of recession usefully reminds those who serve and sell to be more eager to please customers.
Here we are today with unemployment rising smartly and consumer and investor confidence falling intelligently. By those measures, it's safe to say a downturn is upon us -- signaling the moment for government to spend more and tax less. 
Why aren't we doing that? Why isn't the government getting out of the restraining posture of surplus and getting into the stimulating business of deficit? 
The reason that good Keynesian sense is not prevailing is that Bill Clinton, eager to find a way to avoid tax reduction, spooked the nation with his phony notion of a "lockbox" on revenues coming in from the payroll tax. 
It's phony because no such vault exists; no fund containing cash or gold is set aside for future retirees. The notion of an uncrackable safe containing untouchable security is a fraud. The only thing in the "lockbox" is government paper, which is a promise to pay from the Treasury in the future. 
By striking fear into oldsters with his demagogic "save Social Security" slogan, he joined conservatives in making "deficit" a dirty word. But only in boom times is "deficit" a dirty word; when air is hissing out of the balloon and a deficit becomes temporarily desirable, "surplus" becomes the dirty word.
The Bush administration and Republicans in Congress were snookered by the "lockbox" oratory and now are stuck with a foolish promise. Democrats in Congress would rather see Bush wriggle than let him off that hook; obsessed with the success of their lockbox ploy, they are hinting that the way to preserve the counterproductive surplus is to repeal the Bush tax reduction. The Senate leader, Tom Daschle, forgets that the last president to answer a downturn with a tax increase was Herbert Hoover.
The only way out the new president left himself was "in case of war or recession." The time has come for using the second part of that out. My plan: Increase federal spending on education and missile defense; as the slump deepens, fold in a prescription drug benefit for seniors. At the same time, double the summertime tax cut, reducing taxes on average families again in time for Christmas purchasing, to which no liberal could object; add in a capital gains cut to move the markets and bestir optimism. 
This mild fiscal stimulus may not turn us around, but it surely wouldn't hurt. Accompanied by a further reduction in interest rates by the Federal Reserve, which are justified by increases in productivity that hold down inflation, such a fiscal-monetary combination is sensible and timely. It beats watching Democrats drag their feet, pretending the surplus goes into some vault or mattress, and silently hoping for hard times so they can win the House next year. 
Break out of the depressive lockbox mentality. In economic buoyancy lies the only social security. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAX LAW (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); TAX RELIEF (67%); CORPORATE TAX (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



273 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: ON HORSE RACING; 
The Title Roads All Lead to Belmont

BYLINE:  By Joe Drape 

 BODY:
Chris McCarron ticked off his impressions to Michael Cooper and Jay Robbins, the owner and trainer of Tiznow, at the edge of the track. The winning jockey Jerry Bailey, holding his son Justin's hand, disappeared in the paddock breezeway.
 The trainer Nick Zito, a sour look on his face, and the jockey Jorge Chavez, head craned up to Zito's, talked about Albert the Great's trip. On one side of the rail, a raucous bunch of horseplayers chided ChopChop, as Chavez is known, for taking his colt too wide off the turn. An equally boisterous crew across from them got on Zito. "He rode him good, Nicky; it's not Jorgie's fault," a baritone in island rhythms offered. 
 At the same time in the Bronx, the Yankees blasted the Red Sox; in Queens, the United States Open was reaching a climax; and on televisions across the region, college football games flickered.
Here at Belmont Park on Saturday, a countdown to racing's biggest day began in earnest. Three Grade I stakes, prep races for the Breeders' Cup World Thoroughbred Championships here on Oct. 27, attracted horses from Germany, Britain and Japan, as well as intercontinental stars from California and Kentucky.
The headline race was the $500,000 Woodward Stakes, which Bailey won aboard the Chilean-bred Lido Palace, as Chavez and Albert the Great finished second, and McCarron and Tiznow, the 2000 Horse of the Year, ran a close third.
It was the first of six weekend afternoons of high-caliber racing leading to the world championships.
Already, top jockeys and trainers from California like Gary Stevens and Neil Drysdale have moved their bases here for the fall. In Ireland on Saturday, the connections for Europe's two brightest equine stars spoke of coming to the United States.
After Fantastic Light edged Galileo in the Irish Champion Stakes on Saturday, avenging a July loss and handing the 3-year-old colt Galileo his first defeat in seven starts, the winner's owner, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum of Dubai's royal family, told reporters: "This is what racing is all about. I will speak to my older brother Sheikh Maktoum, but I think we will go for the Breeders' Cup Classic."
The trainer of Galileo, Aidan O'Brien, also indicated that the English and Irish Derby winner had the mile-and-a-quarter Classic on his calendar. "I wouldn't see any reason why he wouldn't go to America," he said.
The trick for the thoroughbred industry is getting America, especially sports-saturated New Yorkers, to show up at the eight Breeders' Cup races worth a combined $13 million.
There was a solid crowd of more than 12,000 Saturday at Belmont. But over the next seven weeks, racing officials must make the general public take the event as seriously as the world's finest horsemen do.
Economically, the game is thriving. Last year, more than $14.2 billion was bet in the United States, according to the Jockey Club. Now it's up to the racing industry to transform a centuries-old sport into a modern spectator event. It has improved ratings for the Triple Crown -- ratings this year rose 49 percent from last year and the highest since 1992. But the industry suffered a blow when Point Given, a burgeoning attraction, was retired with an injury.
To that end, the National Thoroughbred Racing Association recently added World Thoroughbred Championships to what had been called simply the Breeders' Cup and bought many hours of television time. It also began an aggressive advertising campaign.
It calls the initiative re-branding, which makes sense after market research showed that casual fans had no idea what an afternoon of eight races featuring the world's best horses was all about.
As the countdown to what is essentially racing's Super Bowl continues, the immediate challenge is to get people to Belmont. 
As Saturday demonstrated, racing competes with a number of other sports here. So what do you sell? The same thing Nascar pushes: immediacy, intimacy and accessibility. As the Greek chorus of railbirds who serenaded Zito and Chavez proved, fans are often an arm length's from the sport's major figures. It may mean letting them in free or booking top musical performers. Once at Belmont, fans will see a Hall of Fame trainer like Allen Jerkens watching the races, horses like Lido Palace trotting 10 feet away and riders within speaking distance.
After Pat Day brought home With Anticipation in Saturday's $500,000 Man o'War, one horseplayer brought a smile to his face when he invoked a pejorative nickname for the extremely patient Day. "Pat can wait all day when a half-million dollars is on the line," the man said.
In seven weeks, horse racing will have far more than that at stake. The exchange between rider and railbird is a frequent and natural occurrence at the track. It is also a window into racing in all its majesty. One way or another, racing needs to open it, as well as others, to the public. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (92%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (68%) HORSE RACING; BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS 

PERSON: DRAPE, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



274 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: ON PRO FOOTBALL; 
Thunder Expected at the Broncos' Lavish New Citadel in the Sky

BYLINE:  By Thomas George 

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Fans in two preseason games here walked through the new $400 million Invesco Field at Mile High and gawked, paying more attention to the stadium than they did to the games. The Broncos' players have any number of amenities -- the splendid grass field, the spacious locker rooms, their spiffy hot and cold tubs -- that make the old Mile High Stadium next door seem like an old, worn shoe.
 Yes, the Denver Broncos are all dressed up with someplace to go. 
 How about another Super Bowl?
"We always have big expectations, and with this new stadium, people are even more excited," said Mike Shanahan, the Broncos' coach. "But personally, as long as it's 100 yards, I could play on a parking lot -- just bring the crowd and a lot of noise." 
What the Giants will find here tonight is a frenzied crowd proud to show the nation watching on television its latest civic treasure. That and a Broncos team that insists on returning to the top of the league after consecutive Super Bowl titles, followed by 6-10 and 11-5 seasons.
"We have the talent, coaching and ability to get back to the Super Bowl and win it," Broncos receiver Ed McCaffrey said. "If we come out and play together as a team, stay healthy and play our best football at the end, we have a chance."
A chance to go where the Giants have recently been.
The Broncos like the measuring stick the Giants will provide, because the Giants are the defending National Football Conference champions. This is a nifty chance for the Broncos, especially since the last time they saw the Giants up close, it was deflating.
Denver had a 13-0 record on Dec. 13, 1998, when the Giants (5-8) upset them, 20-16, at Giants Stadium. Denver would go on to win the Super Bowl, but the Broncos have not forgotten that loss. Especially Shanahan, the most successful coach in the N.F.L. during his six seasons in Denver, with 71 victories (he was 39-9 in the old Mile High).
But he has not beaten the Giants.
"That game helped bring us back down to earth, but the thing I remember most is we had a third-and-1 late in the game and didn't convert that," Shanahan said. "If we had, we could have run out the clock. They had the top rushing defense in the N.F.C. last year and they only gave up 244 yards in the Super Bowl even though the final score was lopsided. They're sound."
Not only have the Broncos built a new stadium, they have also built a new defense, one that is led by Ray Rhodes, their new defensive coordinator. The defense and stadium have the Broncos' owner, Pat Bowlen, full of optimism.
"Going back to when we won the referendum to build the stadium in November '98 up to Monday night, I can say all the stars lined up for us," Bowlen said. "The vote came at a time where the year before we had won a Super Bowl and then were 9-0; that had a great impact on the six counties of Denver to vote for it. We were able to sell all of our seats and suites at time when the economy was strong; I don't know the way the market is now if that would have happened so smoothly."
The community is paying $265 million for the stadium through taxes, the Broncos the remaining $135 million. Bowlen is proud that the sight lines for the stadium are good, that the fans are close to the field and that the bowl of the stadium is made of steel.
The idea was to increase crowd noise, which was a staple of the old Mile High. Fans here like to refer to it as Rocky Mountain Thunder.
The Denver players say the old field was more dirt than grass, but this one provides soft and sure footing. "You used to run on the old field and might see chunks of turf fly up in your face," said McCaffrey. "The jumbo screens, the bronze horse statues outside, it's just a wonderful place."
Now to get the crowd back into the games instead of simply showing up.
Now to stake their claim as the American Football Conference team to beat.
Now to christen the place with the Giants.
"For the Broncos, this stadium will provide us with the revenue to compete in the free-agency market, and that's very important not only in our game but in all sports," Bowlen said. "For Denver and for Colorado, this stadium is going to be a landmark. We've already got 100 major events planned here, so the stadium will have multiple use. Denver now has new baseball, football and hockey stadiums. Of course, I'm biased, but this is the best stadium ever built in the National Football League." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%) FOOTBALL 

COMPANY: INVESCO LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: DENVER BRONCOS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%) NEW YORK GIANTS; DENVER BRONCOS 

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



275 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Black Families Resist Mississippi Land Push 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: CANTON, Miss., Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Like the bulldozers now flattening several square miles of central Mississippi, this state has allowed nothing to stop its effort to acquire a huge Nissan truck factory and finally take its place in the international economy.
 It outbid every other competing state for the plant with the largest package of tax-financed incentives ever offered to an automaker in the United States, estimated at more than $400 million in spending and tax rebates. As part of the package, Mississippi agreed to pay for an $80 million job-training program for Nissan workers and to build the factory's $17 million vehicle-preparation building. It promised $60 million in new and improved roads, to be built far faster than most state roads. It even allowed Nissan executives to use a state plane for several months. 
 Most significant, it agreed to acquire more than 1,500 acres Nissan wanted -- nearly 2.5 square miles -- using the state's power of eminent domain, if necessary, to move out homeowners living on the site near this small town of 10,000, about 15 miles north of Jackson. 
And that is when the high-revving engine of Mississippi's new economy ran directly into the Archie and Bouldin families, a small but unyielding pocket of an older Mississippi that is not quite as impressed by the rush to join the global economy. These related black families, who for 60 years have owned an isolated green enclave where Nissan wants to put a parking lot and an access road, have spurned the state's offer of more than a half-million dollars for their land, and have gone to court to challenge the condemnation procedure.
The families have charged that the state acted in a racially biased manner by treating white and black landowners differently, and while Nissan has begun construction next to their property, they have become the most prominent obstacles to the fulfillment of the state's promise to the company. Although many white landowners received less money per acre than the state is offering the black families, the dispute makes it clear that Mississippi can never entirely escape the effects of its past, even at the precise moment that it is moving a great deal of earth to do so.
"My grandfather bought this land in 1941," said Lonzo Archie, 45, a welder who lives with his family of five in a modest brick house on the south edge of the Nissan project. "There's 15 of our families right around here, and none of them want to live anywhere else. But then the state comes in and pushes us around and tells us they're going to turn our land over to a private company. It's not right."
State officials said the families were simply holding out for more money, and produced extensive figures to show that black and white landowners in the area were not being treated differently. But even though the family owns just 23 acres of the land sought for the project, officials at the state's economic development agency said they must seize those acres because of a larger principle: the need to demonstrate to businesses around the country that they are utterly serious about attracting big corporate investments.
"It's not that Nissan is going to leave if we don't get that land," said James C. Burns Jr., the executive director of the Mississippi Development Authority. "What's important is the message it would send to other companies if we are unable to do what we said we would do. If you make a promise to a company like Nissan, you have to be able to follow through."
Regularly derided as the nation's poorest state with the least educated population, and mired in a largely agricultural economy, Mississippi spent years watching with increasing frustration as foreign automakers placed their high-wage jobs and high-tech factories in other Southern states, like Alabama, Tennessee and South Carolina. Mr. Burns acknowledged that Mercedes-Benz and Honda never seriously considered Mississippi before choosing sites for large factories in the 1990's.
"There was this perception out there that we just couldn't do what it takes, either financially or physically," said Mr. Burns, a former banker appointed to the job last year by Gov. Ronnie Musgrove. "What we had to do was show companies what we were capable of."
When Nissan quietly informed Mississippi and several other states of its interest in the spring of last year, the Musgrove administration quickly mobilized, determined to come up with a more generous incentive package than its neighbors. 
While Alabama had offered $253 million to Mercedes-Benz in 1993, Mississippi spent four months preparing a $295 million package for Nissan, an amount that did not include the $5,000-a-worker tax credit and the rollbacks of county property taxes.
In a one-day special session last November, the Legislature unanimously passed a 30,000-word bill granting a variety of privileges to the project and specifically granting the state the power to take whatever land it deemed necessary to turn over to Nissan. Alabama, Mississippi's main competitor for the project, had never used its eminent domain power for its auto plants.
"They were just way more generous than we were," said Keivan Deravi, an economics professor at Auburn University, who works with Alabama in preparing its incentive offers to automakers and other industries. "Despite a great deal of effort, we couldn't match it, I guess because they were trying to break into the market and willing to go further."
But Mississippi decided the cost was worth it. The $930 million plant, scheduled to open in 2003, will eventually employ 4,000 people and produce about 250,000 pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles and minivans every year. State officials predict thousands more jobs will be created by suppliers and related businesses.
To convince Nissan of its seriousness, the state decided to acquire options on about half the land at the core of the site last summer, long before the public knew the company was coming and before the Legislature had granted the use of eminent domain for the project. 
The state's real estate agents struck deals with various landowners at a variety of prices, from $7,500 to $60,000 an acre, depending on the tenacity of the owner.
But last fall, after the use of eminent domain was authorized, the state was not as flexible when it began negotiating with the Archies, the Bouldins and other owners of land on the edges of the project. It has offered the families $24,500 an acre, plus the cost of their homes -- higher than the average price it paid of $18,000 an acre but not as high as the $60,000 paid to one white landowner -- and it has threatened to seize the land and pay less if the offer is not accepted. The amount the state is offering is about 10 times the appraised value of the land before Nissan disclosed its interest. 
It is the manner in which the state dealt with the families, as much as the price itself, that led to the current dispute. Lonzo Archie said his family wanted the right to negotiate freely with the state, and not under threat of seizure, in the manner of the earlier landowners. The family asked for help from the state chapter of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, which has in turn brought in the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Martin Luther King III to urge fairness in the negotiations.
"It's not about the money -- it's about the state understanding the true value of this land to these families," said Stephanie Parker-Weaver, the executive secretary of the state chapter of the Christian group. "They have treated these families very condescendingly. If they're going to force these families off their land, they're going to have to offer them a better quality of life than they are now."
In July, a state judge allowed the state to acquire part of the Archies' land that Nissan wants for its access road, but the ultimate disposition of the property is likely to be settled by the Mississippi Supreme Court. 
State officials said they had no doubt that the court would see the wisdom of Mississippi's efforts on behalf of the automaker.
"How can you imagine this as anything but a public good?" Mr. Burns said. "This project gives us an opportunity to change the destiny of this state."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lonzo Archie, far left, lives on land claimed for Nissan. Stephanie Parker-Weaver is helping him as he resists Mississippi's offer. (The New York Times); A Nissan truck factory is rising near Canton, Miss., beside Interstate 55, which will get a new interchange. Several acres of the site are in dispute. (Photographs by Hubert Worley for The New York Times) Map of Mississippi highlighting the area of the Nissan project. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); FAMILY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); LITIGATION (68%) AUTOMOBILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; REAL ESTATE; BLACKS; EMINENT DOMAIN; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: NISSAN MOTOR CO 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) CANTON (MISS); MISSISSIPPI

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



276 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 3690 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNING FOR MAYOR; 
In Double-Header Debates, the Politics of School Finance and Racism

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from two debates yesterday by Democratic candidates for mayor, as recorded by The New York Times. The first, featuring the four major candidates, was broadcast on WNBC, Channel 4, and was moderated by Gabe Pressman. The second debate was administered by the New York City Campaign Finance Board and included five Democratic candidates. It was broadcast on WABC, Channel 7, and was moderated by Diana Williams.

Q. Major polls this morning, Mr. Vallone, show that this is a race between Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer. The Daily News says 27 to 26 in favor of Green. Are the polls right or wrong?

PETER F. VALLONE -- I've kind of made a career of being underestimated in terms of the polls. You might recall three years ago when I ran in the Democratic primary for governor, the very same polls, pollsters, underestimated me by 20 points. . . . But they also said I couldn't make the city safe 10 years ago, you might recall that, too. And they underestimated me then, too.

Q. What about you, Mr. Hevesi?

ALAN G. HEVESI -- All I can definitively say as an academician that the polls are either right or wrong and we'll know on September the 12th. Understand that these polls reflect the view of the pollee at the moment that the question is asked. . . . And half the voters who said they're leaning for one candidate or another also indicated they were willing to switch. So I assert this is soft, and I wouldn't write the final story of this campaign until the polls close. . . .

Q. Let's take education. You've all promised to build more schools, cut the sizes of classes and give teachers more money so they don't move to the suburbs. Where do you get the money without cutting other services? Mr. Hevesi?

HEVESI -- . . . It's still a $40 billion budget. So if you make education a priority, there's money there. Two, the Campaign for Fiscal Equity court case, which already has gone through the first stage, State Supreme Court, has determined that the State of New York has systematically cheated New York City out of substantial amounts of state aid. We will win that case after the appeal, so there'll be more money coming from the state. . . . And third, I have said that -- and maybe that's not good politics but I think it's good governance -- that if we have to as a last resort, I would restore the 12 1/2 percent surcharge on the income tax ----

Q. You'd raise taxes, in other words?

HEVESI -- Well, as a last resort, restore that surcharge that Mr. Vallone and Mr. Dinkins put into place for Safe Streets/Safe City to increase the number of cops. It worked then, and I would do it for education if we had to.

Q. Would you raise taxes for education, Mr. Green?

GREEN -- If necessary, absolutely. If we raise taxes as a last resort to hire a quarter more cops and crime fell by half, that was a good bargain. But before then, there's a billion-and-a-half dollars in the federal government that we could get under the Johnson-Rangel bill. There's a majority in the House for it. All four of us agree with the Campaign for Fiscal Equity case. Should that prevail, that could be $1 to $2 billion a year more from the state. . . . I intend, should I be the mayor, to pay teachers more as a base and then have bonus or incentive pay for teachers who do more: go to lower performing schools, tutor younger colleagues. My No. 1 reason for running for mayor is to fix the broken school system.

Q. Would you raise taxes, Mr. Ferrer, to pay for schools?

FERRER -- A mayor's got to make choices, and those choices sometimes are tough, especially in a declining economy. And that's why I pointed out months ago the pennies-a-day tax cut that Mayor Giuliani and the City Council enacted and approved that would put four cents a day in the pocket of the average working New Yorker would be better spent on keeping every one of the 200 middle schools in our city, in every neighborhood of New York, open from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. and on the weekends to keep our kids out of harm's way and to keep them learning more. Those are choices you make. . . .

Q. As a last result would you raise taxes?

FERRER -- I might.

Q. Mr. Vallone?

VALLONE -- Absolutely not. And that's the difference between me and the other candidates. You know, I've worked alongside three different mayors. For 12 years now I've had balanced budgets. When I put that surtax in, that was at the same time we were cutting a budget by $2 billion. And I asked the people to put their trust in me, and I worked it out with Mayor Dinkins. And I said that was a temporary surtax until we made this city safe, until we balanced a budget, until we took this city out of the red, until we for 12 years in a row have never spent a penny more than we had. I said the days of taxing and spending are over, and they should be over.

Q. What about for the kids for education?

VALLONE -- Well, for education, I came up with a plan, a detailed plan, to show where every penny would come from the $5 billion that I'm willing to put in to education, without raising a tax, to insure that we reduce class size, to insure that the money goes in to help the kids, to insure that the bureaucracy is cut. . . .If you start talking about taxing and spending again, you're going to drive the last of the middle class out of the city.

HEVESI -- Well, first of all, let's be very clear. Peter Vallone increased taxes for Safe Streets, Safe Cities. . . . He will not do the same for the public schools if we had to as a last resort. Secondly, his comment about the $5 billion plan he has -- I've heard this many, many times, and so have we all, the $5 billion for education he's talking about is from residential property taxes that are already being collected and have already been spent. You cannot spend the same $5 billion twice. That's already in the budget, it is not new money.

VALLONE -- That's just not so, Alan.

HEVESI -- It is new money, Peter?

VALLONE -- Absolutely.

HEVESI -- Well, tell us how it's new money without raising taxes.

VALLONE -- How do you think I've been doing it, Alan?

HEVESI -- I don't know, I'm asking you a question.

VALLONE -- I've demonstrated where that $500 million comes from. I've demonstrated where $300 million comes from police overtime. I've demonstrated where every single penny has come from. It's a detailed financial plan. That was the same argument that was used when they said I couldn't put Safe Streets, Safe City in effect. They said the money was already used.

HEVESI -- Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, come on. You have said you're going to take $5 billion from the residential real property taxes. Now you're talking about overtime and other issues. It can't be both.

VALLONE -- I'm saying that's where the money's coming from.

GREEN -- Ralph and Alice, listen, let me just get a word in here edgewise.

Q. Go ahead, Mr. Green.

GREEN -- Citizens Budget Commission has found $800 million in savings, before we touch taxes.

Q. That's a private, outside agency, right?

GREEN -- A half a billion as senior teachers leave at $70,000, regrettably, they're replaced by teachers earning $31,000, which is too little. I have $200 million in procurement savings at the school construction authority and elsewhere we could save. But at the end of the day, if someone in four years, should I be mayor, said, if we tax pennies a day per person to invest in classes no greater than 20, K to 3, with a proven result, test scores go up, children have the information technology and citizenship skills so they prosper as citizens and our companies prosper, that's an investment, it's not wasteful. We invest in bridges, we invest in health care. We should also invest in children. . . .

Q. The majority of the people who are stopped and frisked were absolutely guiltless of any wrongdoing, although there's a great incentive in this town to bring crime statistics down. If you're elected mayor, will you make sure, will you order the people in charge of your police force, the commissioner and the others, not to engage in unreasonable searches, which are prohibited by the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution?

GREEN -- Absolutely. . . . Racial profiling is wrong, it's illegal, it exists. You don't need a law to stop it, you need a mayor and a commissioner to say no. . . .

Q. Mr. Ferrer, you think that legislation is necessary?

FERRER -- I believed it was necessary 15 years ago when I introduced the first law that created the first Civilian Complaint Review Board in 1986. I believe if law is a reflection of the values of the community, racial profiling, stopping and frisking someone simply because of race and ethnicity, offends our values. You not only -- and this is where I disagree with Mark -- you need a law to stop it. You also need a mayor and a police commissioner to enforce the law. It's as simple as that.

Q. Do you favor a law, Mr. Hevesi?

HEVESI -- I support Mr. Ferrer's law, and prior to that, I supported the legislation introduced in the New York Assembly by Speaker Silver and other members of the Assembly. But the point is that the enforcement of the law is critical, and it goes beyond the mayor giving cues. The mayor must give cues that there will be no tolerance for misconduct, but you have to put into effect programs that hold precinct commanders accountable. . . .

Q. Now, Mr. Ferrer, Mr. Green has raised questions about Sonny Carson, the community activist who reportedly made anti-Semitic and anti-white statements, and he's endorsed you. Do you repudiate his endorsement?

FERRER -- First of all, I rejected a phony endorsement that I didn't ask for. And I rejected it pretty unequivocally. I reject it today. I didn't ask for it. This is a man I don't even know. But let's get real about this. Sonny Carson isn't even important enough to occupy the time of people who are talking about the serious future of this city. . . .

Q. Mr. Green, is it not a fact that you took the endorsement of the Independence Party when you ran for public advocate in '97? A prime mover in that party is Lenora Fulani, who has been associated with Louis Farrakhan, who's made anti-Semitic statements, and with Pat Buchanan, denounced as an anti-Semite by no less than Bill Buckley.

GREEN -- . . . The Independence Party, I can recall, endorsed me. It wasn't then controlled by Lenora Fulani, who I regard as racially divisive and an anti-Semite. This year, now that she's taken over that party, I didn't seek, I didn't want, I didn't get the support of the Independence Party. . . .

HEVESI -- May I respond, please? Just to get the record straight, in 1997 I, too, was running for re-election and had weak opposition and was offered the Independence Party nomination. I turned it down because of the involvement of Lenora Fulani. Mr. Green accepted it, apparently. But my understanding was, Mark, that in 1998 when you ran for the United States Senate you solicited the endorsement of Lenora Fulani's faction in order to get on the ballot to challenge Chuck Schumer, who was going to be the nominee of the party. If that's incorrect, please correct the record now. Here's what's dangerous ----

GREEN -- By the way -- please go ahead.

HEVESI -- ---- We're now getting into very sensitive issues, and all of us ought to be alert to the fact that what we say has meaning and has power and that we ought to be very careful not to aggravate any racial divisiveness or ethnic divisiveness that's a potential in this city at every moment because we're the most ethnically diverse city in the history of cities. And it means we have to be very careful about this. And one way for that is for all of us to pledge that whenever we confront any bigot, whether it's Sonny Carson or Louis Farrakhan or whoever it is, white or black, or the Ku Klux Klan that came to New York to picket where we all went to confront them, that we are standing together with no tolerance for bigotry . . .

VALLONE -- I just want to correct Freddy. I think, how could you not know Sonny Carson? This is a man who's not only a racist, but he says he's not a racist because he's just anti-white. And I think that's the problem. I think the problem here, while I know it's not intentional on Freddy's part, when you're talking about a divided city suddenly it becomes us against them. When you're talking about two cities, that's what happens. You encourage these kind of divisive lunatics to come out and act as if that that's the problem of our city.

GREEN -- I agree with Freddy on this. When I was first asked about Sonny Carson's endorsement of Freddy, I said it is wrong to impute the views of some guy who, unsolicited, endorses a candidate, to the candidate. That's guilt by association. I'm sure the comptroller doesn't mean to implicitly criticize Senator Schumer, who accepted the endorsement in 1998. I agree with Alan's conclusion. You don't have guilt by association. And in a racially divided city, you have to denounce bigots whether they're for you or against you. . . .

FERRER -- Let's be really honest here. The addressing of these issues is not meant to unite. It's really meant to inflame divisions in this city, to exploit them. And let me help you, Peter and Mark, with one little perception. You know that I don't talk to this man. And he is completely marginal to this conversation. To raise him in this issue, to raise him in this debate, inflames and divides. Let's get real about the issues that do confront this city and confront them boldly. This stuff is marginal.

VALLONE -- You don't think that the two cities' division doesn't encourage these kind of kooks to come out? . . .

FERRER -- To acknowledge that there are problems in housing and health care and education and after-school programs ----

VALLONE -- It's still one city, Freddy.

FERRER ---- is not divisive.

Campaign Finance Board Debate

Q. In Brooklyn, during the first six months of the year, noise complaints made up the No. 1 complaint on the mayor's quality of life hot line. If elected mayor, what will you do to bring down the noise? . . .

HEVESI -- The quality of life initiatives of the mayor have been very appropriate in most arenas, although I would eliminate the Decency Commission. And that includes dealing with the issues of fare jumping and graffiti with quality of life disturbances. Among these is the issue of noise. There are noise ceilings that are in codes that have to be enforced, and this is a question of emphasis that I would place with my law enforcement to make sure that people are first warned and then fined for any disturbances that really cause a disturbance in any neighborhood.

VALLONE -- We have a noise control bureau which is one that all you have to do is call the hot line and people would come over and do what has to be done. But we have an environmental code that we have passed in the City Council which determines the noise decibels and the noise levels that can be utilized in the city of New York. So what I would do is make sure of the enforcement mechanism of this particular very aggravating situation. For instance, we have cars that roam around the city. With a law in effect that says when you have this unbearable noise level coming from a particular automobile, the police officers have the power to impound that automobile and to take that radio out of the car. That's a question of enforcement. I passed that law. . . .

GREEN -- If elected mayor, I will eliminate noise in New York City. general laughter . . . I saw a segment on NY1 about a year ago where La Guardia initiated a campaign against noise. This is like shouting at the tides. You've got to keep doing it because it keeps coming at you, because we are a city, uniquely, that's congested. . . . Our noise code is decades out of date. I want to take a fresh look at it because about half of the noise that's generated now is not included and not prohibited by the noise code. And again, I'm very interested in technology. There's new technology that cops on the beat can have detectors which immediately can count the decibel levels and impose tickets to stop it on the spot.

FERRER -- You know, as a kid growing up on Fox Street, you could hear the planes coming by. We lived in the flight path. . . . Noise has been around a long long time, especially with those cars that are attached to rolling speakers or the truck traffic or the car traffic or the boom boxes that get walked down the block. Better enforcement is absolutely essential. But more than that, we have to get serious about the issues that degrade the quality of life of any neighborhood in this city. And getting serious about it is enforcing the laws that already exist.

Q. Mr. Ferrer, earlier this morning you all had a debate, and Mr. Vallone went hard after you on the notion that your campaign theme, the other New York, is racially divisive. Could you pick that up for our viewers and tell them why is the idea of one New York and another New York not a divisive one in your opinion?

FERRER -- You know, when too many New Yorkers find the pursuit of decent housing at a price that they can afford a crisis in their lives, they live in the other New York. Affordable rents, they live in the other New York. When too many New Yorkers don't have health insurance and they're standing right next to another New Yorker who's one pink slip away from losing health insurance, they live in the other New York. When working parents worry that they can't be home for their child after the dismissal bell rings . . . and they want their children to learn more, they live in the other New York. To confront those questions and those crises in people's lives is a unifying issue.

Q. Mr. Spitz.

GEORGE N. SPITZ -- Well, a lot of people in this city do not realize there is a lot of discrimination. Every salesperson at the Wiz store at 87th Street, people of color, has been stopped. These are respectable people. The mosque, Muslim mosque in Bay Ridge, is not allowed to call the faithful to prayer. I will put a stop to this. I will support Borough President Ferrer's bill to end racial profiling, but there'll be an administrative order ending it for blacks, Hispanics and Arab Americans.

Q. Mr. Hevesi.

HEVESI -- It is appropriate for us to suggest with sensitive language that while the city is moving in the right direction in many ways, lots of people have been left behind. And in the effort to make sure no one is left behind, that everyone is included, every candidate for mayor and the mayor himself has to be an absolute militant against any form of bigotry or racism or homophobia or anti-Semitism, whether it comes from the left or from the right, whether the bigot is white or black or any other ethnicity, that is our obligation.

Q. Mr. Vallone, earlier this morning you said one city, not two.

VALLONE -- Absolutely, and I've been saying it from the first. I head Freddy say this in over a hundred debates in over a hundred different corners of this city. This is not two cities, it's one city. And even though it may not be intentional -- it is not intentional on Freddy's part -- what you're doing is racially dividing this city. You are encouraging bigots like Sonny Carson to come out of holes and start talking about, he's not racist, he's just anti-white. It's incurring division. What we should be doing is talking about one city. There are people in this city who are seeking to divide this city. But it's one city and it has to stay one city.

Q. Mr. Green.

GREEN -- I don't think there are two cities. There are 200 cities in a sense, given the number of ethnicities, nationalities and religions. But we have so much more in common than what divides us. The ethic of my public life is those less favored in life should be more favored in law. That's why I exposed that a third of black and Latino children don't have health insurance. . . . We have helped 5,000 children, largely minority, navigate the welfare system. I want to help all the families of this city who have education and protection in common.

Q. This week in the news, we saw an 8-year-old charged with the death of a 4-year-old child. Given the current law, this child could only serve perhaps a year, year-and-a-half in a juvenile detention center for what many would regard as a very serious crime. How would you deal with this situation?

FERRER -- This is truly heinous. I can't imagine being the parent of that child who was stabbed through the neck just for taking out the garbage one night on the floor. But I'll tell you this, while we're all arguing about this one specific case of crime and punishment, we'd better get serious about after-school programs, about education ----

Q. But how would you deal with that 8-year-old?

FERRER -- Let me tell you something, it's hard to say that 8-year-old should be treated like a felon and like an adult.

Q. Mr. Spitz?

SPITZ -- I like to set an example. I'm an advocate of nonviolence. I'm a vegetarian for humanitarian reasons, though I've got considerable health benefits out of it. I'm opposed to bombing innocent civilians. I'm opposed to the death penalty. I'm opposed to the whole death culture. That is why ----

Q. O.K. Let's go on to Mr. Hevesi.

HEVESI -- You have to say that when it comes to an 8-year-old, presuming he is guilty of this heinous crime, that he comes from some dysfunctional family. . . . It's up to a court to determine the competency of the child involved. If the 8-year-old knew what he was doing, then he should be punished to the full extent of the law.

Q. O.K. Mr. Green?

GREEN -- You can't treat an 8-year-old like an adult. The don't have mens rea, as the legal justice system says. But that's why you invest as I will in early education programs, after-school programs to try to avoid tragedies like this.

Q. When voters go into the voting booth on Tuesday to make their choice what is the one word that you want them to associate with your name on the ballot? Mr. Spitz, let's begin with you. One word.

SPITZ -- Uh.

Q. Your time's up. Mr. Hevesi, one word.

HEVESI -- Most experienced, best qualified.

Q. That's not one word. Mr. Vallone?

VALLONE -- Qualifications.

Q. Mr. Green?

GREEN -- Integrity.

Q. Mr. Ferrer?

FERRER -- Commitment.

Q. And Mr. Spitz, I'll give you one last chance?

SPITZ -- Age.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan G. Hevesi stopped at a rally yesterday at the First Baptist Church, on Astoria Boulevard in Queens. With him are Jimmy Smith and Jeanne Ratteray-Williams. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Fernando Ferrer took his mayoral campaign to a street festival yesterday in his home borough, the Bronx, at Fordham Road near Kingsbridge Road. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); SUBURBS (63%); TAX INCREASES (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



277 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Tough U.S. Visa Rules Anger Chinese Scholars
In a year in which record numbers of Chinese have applied for visas -- and been rejected -- the American Embassy visa section in Beijing has become a focal point of anti-American resentment, its decisions derided as arbitrary and unfair. From the Chinese perspective, the issue is simple: on the basis of interviews lasting under five minutes, tens of thousands of Chinese have found their plans for study, travel or work jettisoned. A1

Pilot Under Investigation
Two weeks after engine failure caused a plane's dramatic landing in the Azores, the pilot, copilot and the airline -- a Montreal-based charter company -- are all under investigation about decisions made before and during the drama. One of the questions concerns the captain transferring fuel from the one working engine into the other failing engine. A1

Terrorism Flares in Israel
Israel suffered several terrorist blows on the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and in a northern Israeli town. The authorities said one of the incidents was the first suicide bombing ever committed by an Arab who was an Israeli citizen. A3

Victory, of a Sort, in Belarus
The president apparently won the country's first presidential election in seven years. But the government's actions in the final hours of campaigning -- harassment of opponents and refusal to issue detailed vote counts -- seemed to belie any notion that it was confident of support. A8

NATIONAL A12-26

Both Parties Talk Tax Cuts As Economy Remains Weak
The Democrats and the Republicans, as the economy takes on a recessionary tone and the political stakes rise, are scrambling to come up with proposals to rekindle prosperity, with both parties saying that further tax cuts are possible if the deterioration continues. The politics of handling the economy have shifted rapidly since Friday, when the government reported that unemployment last month surged to 4.9 percent from 4.5 percent in July. A1

State Is Accused of Racial Bias
Two black families have accused Mississippi of acting in a racially biased manner by treating white and black landowners differently as it acquires land for a truck plant. A20

Campground for the Homeless
Portland, Ore., has provided land for a tent city and put in a water hookup and portable toilets, a move that has stretched the definition of public services for the homeless. A12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Malpractice Premiums Soar
Medical malpractice insurance premiums are climbing at the highest rate since the mid-1980's, adding to already rising health care costs. Insurers say that the increases, typically in the double digits, result mainly from a rise in jury awards, now averaging $3.49 million. Some of the biggest insurers are raising rates more than 30 percent. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Mayoral Candidates Trade Charges of Being Divisive
Peter F. Vallone used the televised stage of the final two Democratic mayoral debates to charge that Fernando Ferrer was "racially dividing the city" by campaigning on a theme that New York had become two cities. Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, countered that his promise to represent the "other New York" was an appeal to voters who had not benefited from the economic boom. He accused Mr. Vallone, the City Council speaker, of trying to "inflame divisions." A1

Newborn Found in Central Park
A baby girl found just before dawn, left on the ground and wrapped in a blanket, was in stable condition. B3

EDUCATION

Common Approach to Schools
The six men hoping to succeed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani all vow to rehabilitate the New York City public schools. All have a plan for shrinking class size and speeding up the process for firing bad teachers. All but one want to increase the mayor's power over the school system. A1

FASHION B8

OBITUARIES A27

Robert R. Nathan
An economist who helped lead the nation's industrial mobilization during World War II, he was 92. A27

SPORTSMONDAY D1-12

Hewitt Defeats Sampras
Lleyton Hewitt, 20, of Australia won his first Grand Slam singles title, defeating Pete Sampras, 30, in three sets to win the U.S. Open finals. D1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Power politics in the Senate; an unhealthy influence on doctors; resuscitating the Newark arena.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Step Toward Cable Merger
AOL Time Warner, in an effort to become the nation's largest cable operator, has proposed to merge its cable operations with AT&T's, executives close to the negotiations said. C1

Two companies are paying about $7 billion to buy 80 percent of the cable television systems in Germany. C7

Investment Milestone for Korea
The American International Group has resolved a dispute with Hyundai Securities that appears to remove a major obstacle to the $850 million takeover of the financial units of the Hyundai Group, the largest investment ever by a foreign company in Korea's financial sector. C2

Business Digest C1

ARTS E1-8

Spotlight on Creature Comforts
Animals have been part of the movie business from the beginning, even before Rin Tin Tin first fetched the sheriff. But never has there been such a demand for them. There were more than 10 films this summer that starred animals or had significant sequences involving them. This trend has squeezed the resources of those trying to safeguard the animals, pushed some producers into taking their projects overseas where there is little or no oversight and inflamed the passions of activists uncomfortable with animals being trained to entertain humans. E1

Bridge E5
TV Listings E7
Crossword E2
Weather D6
Public Lives A12

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (86%); RACE & RACISM (85%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (83%); INSURANCE (83%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (76%); AIRLINES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); BOMBINGS (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (67%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (64%); JURY TRIALS (64%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (63%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (66%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (56%) ISRAEL (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELARUS (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



278 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Resuscitating the Newark Arena 

 BODY:
A promising plan to aid Newark's downtown revival with a state-assisted sports arena fell victim to New Jersey's election-year politics last week, and there seems no chance of resuscitating the project until after the November election. The YankeeNets, which own the two teams looking for a new home, the New Jersey Nets and the New Jersey Devils, are now threatening to leave the region altogether. We hope the YankeeNets refrain from packing their bags until a new governor has been selected and calmer, less greedy heads prevail in Trenton. 
 The original idea was to relocate the teams from their money-losing arena in the Meadowlands to downtown Newark, near the New Jersey Performing Arts Center and other redevelopment projects. Under a plan sponsored by Acting Gov. Donald DiFrancesco, more than half the $355 million cost of the arena was to have been financed through state-issued revenue bonds, to be paid off through sales and hotel taxes from a special development district in Newark. Additional revenue bonds would have paid to redevelop the Meadowlands arena site. Relocating the teams would have helped make downtown Newark an evening entertainment district and relieved New Jersey of the subsidies it pays for the teams' current venue. 
 But the proposal quickly got caught up in gubernatorial politics. The Republican nominee, Bret Schundler, who is feuding with Mr. DiFrancesco, denounced the plan as an unjustified public handout to the private owners of the YankeeNets. He claimed that if the special tax districts did not yield enough revenue to pay off the bonds, taxpayers statewide would eventually inherit the debt. That seems unlikely. But even if Mr. Schundler turns out to be right, any modest shortfall would be a reasonable public investment in the economic revival of New Jersey's largest city.
In an effort to rally flagging support in the legislature, Mr. DiFrancesco unwisely allowed the arena financing bill to include far more questionable projects, like a rowing center and the redevelopment of a ski resort that could damage an environmentally sensitive region. Some of the new add-ons would have been directly financed from the state treasury. With overall costs soaring toward $1 billion, the bill eventually sank of its own weight. Even the Democratic gubernatorial candidate, Jim McGreevey, a longtime supporter of the arena, turned against the overloaded legislation, though he still supports the Newark arena component.
New Jersey's next governor, whether it is Mr. Schundler or Mr. McGreevey, should quickly craft a new plan to revive the Newark arena project. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SPORTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); RESORTS (73%); SKIING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (54%) HOCKEY, ICE; EDITORIALS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; BASKETBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%) NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEWARK (NJ); MEADOWLANDS (NJ); NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



279 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1715 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNING FOR MAYOR: THE DEMOCRATS; 
VALLONE ASSERTS FERRER'S CAMPAIGN IS POLARIZING CITY

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Peter F. Vallone accused Fernando Ferrer yesterday of running an "us against them" campaign for mayor, using the televised stage of the final two Democratic mayoral debates to charge that Mr. Ferrer was "racially dividing the city" by campaigning on a theme that New York had become two cities under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
 Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, stiffened with anger, asserting that his promise to represent the "other New York" was an appeal to voters who had not benefited from the economic boom of the past several years. He accused Mr. Vallone of trying to "inflame divisions" with his assertion. Excerpts, Page B4. 
 Mr. Vallone, in an attack that began at a 9 a.m. debate on WNBC and spilled over at a second televised debate on WABC two hours later, pointed to an endorsement of Mr. Ferrer by Sonny Carson, a black political organizer who describes himself as "antiwhite," as evidence that Mr. Ferrer's campaign was racially polarizing. 
"I think the problem here, while I know it's not intentional on Freddy's part, when you're talking about a divided city, suddenly it becomes us against them," Mr. Vallone said. "When you're talking about two cities, that's what happens: you encourage these kind of divisive lunatics to come out."
Mr. Ferrer said it was Mr. Vallone who was stirring tensions by invoking Mr. Carson's name. "Let us be really honest here," Mr. Ferrer said. "The addressing of these issues is not meant to unite. It's really meant to inflame divisions in this city, to exploit them."
The confrontation between Mr. Vallone and Mr. Ferrer provided what was, at least by the standards of this campaign, an uncharacteristically sharp edge to the contest as it headed into its final hours. It was unusual because it involved a topic that the candidates had largely avoided, the ethnic appeal that some Democrats view as part of Mr. Ferrer's campaign. And it was notable because it was initiated by Mr. Vallone, the City Council speaker and a figure who is not generally known for having sharp elbows.
The forceful attack came as a series of public polls have shown Mr. Vallone and the fourth major Democratic mayoral candidate, Alan G. Hevesi, trailing Mr. Green and Mr. Ferrer in tomorrow's Democratic primary. Aides to some of Mr. Vallone's rivals suggested that he was trying to rally white and moderate voters behind him, in the hopes of slipping into at least second place. If no candidate wins over 40 percent, there will be a runoff between the top two vote-getters on Sept. 25.
Mr. Vallone's aides denied that there was any political calculation to the attack.
The skirmish came on a bright Sunday morning on which the candidates headed first to the studios of WNBC, Channel 4, for a debate moderated by Gabe Pressman. Then they packed up and scurried over to WABC, Channel 2, for a debate mandated by the city's Campaign Finance Board. It was the last debate of the race. From there, the candidates set out across the city for a final weekend day of campaigning. 
By Mr. Green's count, the second debate yesterday was the 100th appearance by the candidates at some sort of forum since they first began traveling around the city last winter. And there was a sense of familiarity to what they were saying; by this point, the candidates are almost able to finish one another's sentences.
That said, these final 120 minutes of discussion served to further define some differences, if slight ones, among the candidates on a few issues.
On taxes, for example, Mr. Hevesi, Mr. Green and Mr. Ferrer all said they were prepared, if necessary, to raise taxes to finance the public school system. "If necessary, absolutely," Mr. Green said.
Mr. Hevesi, reiterating a position he took early in the campaign to distinguish himself from his rivals, said he would support an income-tax surcharge, similar to one that Mayor David N. Dinkins and Mr. Vallone passed to pay for hiring more police officers, to pay for the public school system, if it proved necessary. "It worked then and I would do it for education if we had to," Mr. Hevesi said.
Mr. Vallone, though, said he would "absolutely not" support a tax increase. "And that's the difference between me and the other candidates," he said, adding, "The days of taxing and spending are over, and they should be over."
Mr. Ferrer called for legislation barring racial profiling by police officers, and Mr. Hevesi said at the debate that he considered that a good idea. But both Mr. Green and Mr. Vallone described such legislation as unnecessary and impractical. "You don't need a law to stop it, you need a mayor and a commissioner to say no," Mr. Green said.
The debate was marked by the exchanges over race between Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Vallone and also by squabbling between Mr. Vallone and Mr. Hevesi, two moderate Democrats from Queens who are competing for some of the same voters. At Mr. Pressman's debate, Mr. Hevesi strongly criticized Mr. Vallone for broadcasting a commercial that notes that Mr. Vallone had been endorsed by New York's police officers, while the others "haven't earned their trust."
"It's an ugly ad at the end of a campaign, and it shouldn't have been put on the air," Mr. Hevesi said. Mr. Vallone ignored him.
By contrast, Mr. Green, once again, stayed on the sidelines, offering joking asides about the fights going on around him, in the latest indication of just how confident he is about his position. 
At one point, Mr. Vallone and Mr. Hevesi carried out a dry though heated exchange about how Mr. Vallone would pay for improvements in education. "Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, Peter, come on,"' Mr. Hevesi said sternly. "You have said you're going to take $5 billion from the residential real property taxes. Now you're talking about overtime and other issues. It can't be both."
Mr. Green interjected: "Ralph and Alice: Listen, let me just get a word in here edgewise."
At the WABC debate, a fifth candidate in the race, George N. Spitz, a retired civil servant, noted that Mr. Green's brother, Stephen L. Green, a large real estate owner, had hired a lobbyist, at $2,500 a month, to represent him before agencies in City Hall. When the moderator gave Mr. Green an opportunity to respond to Mr. Spitz, Mr. Green quipped: "My brother will not have to spend money to speak to me, should I be mayor."
The attacks by Mr. Vallone on Mr. Ferrer's campaign came as Mr. Ferrer has been trying to assemble the support of blacks and Latinos behind his effort to become New York's first Puerto Rican mayor. Mr. Ferrer has avoided any direct racial or ethnic appeals in his campaign speeches, and his aides have been concerned that the effort might be perceived as being exclusionary of white voters. Yesterday, in the midst of this criticism, Mr. Ferrer's campaign announced that it was broadcasting a new television advertisement featuring Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the former New York senator.
Mr. Ferrer, in the WABC debate, disputed the notion that his "other New York" argument was a racial or ethnic appeal. 
"When too many New Yorkers find the pursuit of decent housing at a price that they can afford a crisis in their lives, they live in the other New York," he said, adding, "When too many New Yorkers don't have health insurance and they're standing right next to another New Yorker who's one pink slip away from losing health insurance, they live in the other New York."
Listing several other examples, he concluded, "To confront those questions and those crises in people's lives is a unifying issue."
In attacking the "other New York" appeal, Mr. Vallone made note of the fact that his rival had been endorsed by Mr. Carson, the organizer of a boycott of Korean grocers in the early 1990's, and said that Mr. Carson had been responding to the kind of appeal Mr. Ferrer had been making. Mr. Green, in response to a question last week, suggested that Mr. Ferrer had not been forceful enough in disassociating himself from Mr. Carson. 
But Mr. Ferrer said he did not know Mr. Carson, and yesterday disavowed his support as a "phony endorsement I didn't ask for."
"Let me help you, Peter and Mark, with one little perception," Mr. Ferrer said. "You know that I don't talk to this man. And he is completely marginal to this conversation. To raise him in this issue, to raise him in this debate, inflames and divides. Let's get real about the issues that do confront this city and confront them boldly. This stuff is marginal." 
Mr. Vallone suggested that he did not believe Mr. Ferrer's claim of ignorance. "How could you not know Sonny Carson?" Mr. Vallone said, looking over at Mr. Ferrer on the set at WNBC studios at Rockefeller Center. "This is a man who's not only a racist, but says he's not a racist because he's just antiwhite."
Mr. Vallone continued his criticism of Mr. Ferrer after the debate. "What else does two cities mean?" he said. "You're dividing something. What does that mean? The average person is going to say if there are two cities, I belong in one or the other. It's us against them. Well, who is us and who is them?"
Mr. Green also said he did not agree with Mr. Ferrer's view of New York, although he was not as critical as Mr. Vallone. "I don't think there are two cities," Mr. Green said. "There are 200 cities in a sense, given the number of ethnicities, nationalities and religions. But we have so much more in common than what divides us."
Mr. Hevesi said he had no quarrel with the argument Mr. Ferrer had raised. "It is appropriate for us to suggest with sensitive language that while the city is moving in the right direction in many ways, lots of people have been left behind," Mr. Hevesi said.
As Mr. Ferrer sought to disavow his relationship with Mr. Carson, Mr. Green found himself pressed to explain his own decision in 1997 to accept the endorsement of the Independence Party, whose leaders include Lenora Fulani, who has been accused of making anti-Semitic remarks. 
Mr. Green said that when he was dealing with the party then, Ms. Fulani was not one of its official leaders. "Now that she's taken over the party, I didn't seek, I didn't want, I didn't get the support of the Independence Party," he said.
Mr. Hevesi, observing this exchange, noted that Mr. Green had unsuccessfully sought the party's support when he ran for the United States Senate in 1998.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Democratic mayoral candidates preparing to debate yesterday: Fernando Ferrer, George N. Spitz, Mark Green, Alan G. Hevesi and Peter F. Vallone. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (95%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ENDORSEMENTS; BLACKS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); SPITZ, GEORGE N; CARSON, SONNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



280 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Malpractice Rates Are Rising Sharply; Health Costs Follow 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Medical malpractice insurance premiums are soaring at the highest rate since the mid-1980's, adding to rising health care costs.
 Insurers say the increases, typically in the double digits, result mainly from a rise in jury awards, now averaging $3.49 million. 
 Some of the biggest insurers are raising rates in many states more than 30 percent. Even insurers owned by doctors and hospitals, which strive to keep rates low, are increasing prices 10 percent to 18 percent. 
Insurers began raising rates last year, after several years of price-cutting competition that left premiums trailing inflation. A 4 percent rise in premiums last year was the largest since 1994, and insurers say the increases are accelerating greatly this year. 
In New York, where rates are already among the highest, and in New Jersey, insurers say they do not expect any big jumps this year. But some of Connecticut's largest malpractice insurers are raising prices sharply, and New York insurers say they are nervous about increasing costs. One New York insurer, its finances deteriorating, was taken over by state regulators last month.
Malpractice coverage is already one of the most expensive kinds of insurance. The latest increases put further pressure on doctors' and hospitals' earnings, which have been shrinking under managed care. While doctors and hospitals say they must absorb much of the added cost, analysts say they are able to pass some of it along to health care insurers and patients who have traditional medical insurance or pay directly.
Health care costs are expected to increase about 10 percent this year. And rising malpractice premiums account for about one-tenth of the increase, Dr. William F. Jessee, chief executive of the Medical Group Management Association, estimated. His group represents 188,000 doctors, or nearly half of those who buy the coverage.
Kenneth S. Abramowitz, a managing director at the Carlyle Group, a New York investment firm, who specializes in the health care industry, said: "The rising cost of malpractice coverage is becoming one of the most important factors driving inflation for physicians' services, particularly for high-priced specialists in surgery and obstetrics."
Dr. Yank D. Coble Jr., the president-elect of the American Medical Association, said the insurance jolt was one of his members' greatest worries. "This is creating a great deal of alarm and concern," he said.
The price increases are highest for obstetricians, gynecologists and surgeons, the doctors who are sued the most frequently. In New York and Florida, these doctors pay more than $100,000 a year for $1 million in coverage. The Clarendon Insurance Group, one of the market leaders in Florida, has raised its prices for obstetricians and gynecologists in the southeastern part of the state to more than $200,000, up from about $158,000 last year, said Carol Brierly Golin, editor of the Medical Liability Monitor, an industry newsletter.
For many hospitals, insurers are not only increasing premiums but are also sharply reducing amounts of coverage and raising deductibles. One hospital in Chicago, for example, paid the St. Paul Companies $1 million for $40 million in coverage last year with a deductible of $15 million. This year, the insurer raised the premium for the hospital, which it would not identify, to $1.8 million, but cut the coverage to $10 million and more than doubled the deductible.
Rising medical malpractice premiums are also adding to medical costs in another way: Doctors are practicing more defensively, ordering extra tests and choosing procedures that limit their risks. Dr. Nigel Spier, an obstetrician-gynecologist in Hollywood, Fla., said doctors were performing more Caesarean deliveries, for example, which are more costly than vaginal deliveries.
Insurers put most of the blame for the increases on a jump in big awards by juries and large settlements. While the number of malpractice suits has been holding steady, the average jury award rose to $3.49 million in 1999, up 79 percent from $1.95 million in 1993, according to the latest compilation by Jury Verdict Research of Horsham, Pa. 
But industry experts point to another reason for the price shock: a grave miscalculation by insurers. For several years, they kept prices artificially low while competing for market share and new revenue to invest in a booming stock market.
As the bull market surged, stock investments by these historically conservative insurers rose to 10.6 percent in 1999, up from a more typical 3 percent in 1992, said Geri Riley, an analyst at Conning & Company, an insurance research firm. That was nearly four times the percentage increase in stock market investments by the entire property and casualty insurance industry over that period.
With the market now in a slump, the insurers can no longer use stock market gains to subsidize low rates. The industry reported realized capital gains of $381 million last year, down 30 percent from the high point in 1998, according to the A. M. Best Company, one of the most comprehensive sources of insurance industry data. A decline in investment earnings has also helped drive up the prices of automobile and homeowners insurance.
About 60 percent of the malpractice insurance is provided by mutual companies, owned by doctors and hospitals that are inclined to err on the side of keeping rates low. Commercial insurers, battling for market share, also restrained their prices.
But now, industry experts say, the insurers must sharply increase their premiums to avoid collapse. One of the largest companies, Phico, which sells insurance nationally but concentrates on New Jersey and Pennsylvania, was taken over in August by regulators in Pennsylvania, where it is based, when claims threatened to outrun the company's ability to pay.
Later in the month, another big company, the Frontier Insurance Group, based in Rock Hills, N.Y., was taken over by New York regulators.
Ms. Brierly Golin, the newsletter editor, blames a lack of foresight for the plight of Frontier and others in the industry. "The insurance companies wouldn't be in this position if they hadn't been been so hungry for investment profits and had priced their product appropriately," she said.
Insurers now acknowledge their miscalculations. "We should have raised prices sooner," said Mike Miller, the senior executive in charge of malpractice coverage at the St. Paul Companies.
But no one wanted to go first, said Larry Smarr, the president of the Physician Insurers Association of America, which represents many of the companies doctors own. "If you're the first guy to raise your rates, you'll lose market share," he said. "So they all played a game of chicken for a long time."
Because dozens of companies are raising rates state by state, there is no centralized tally of the changes. Companies say their rates vary by state, city, doctor and medical speciality, with the largest increases where the gap between premiums and costs is greatest. 
St. Paul, the second-largest malpractice insurer, has raised rates for doctors an average of 24 percent this year in 25 states, with rates jumping 65 percent in Ohio and Mississippi. Scpie Companies is raising rates an average of 30 percent to 50 percent in a dozen states, including Florida and Texas. A few of the insurers owned by doctors and hospitals are raising rates more than 55 percent. 
In New York, one of the most litigious states, where neurosurgeons on Long Island pay $155,000 a year for $1 million in coverage, insurance executives say they are seeing rising costs that could soon result in still higher premiums. Donald J. Fager, who is in charge of daily operations for the Mlmic Group, the state's largest malpractice insurer, said that by midyear, claims costs were running $21 million, or 12 percent, ahead of last year. "I'm nervous about what's going to happen," he said.
In New Jersey, insurers do not expect the market leaders to make sharp increases this year. In Connecticut, one of the leading companies, the Connecticut Medical Insurance Company, has raised its rates 16 percent this year. State regulators said the company also cut dividends to doctors, who are both customers and owners, effectively raising its rates another 33 percent. Scpie, one of the smaller companies in the state, has raised its rates 35 percent.
Many insurers say the higher jury awards are at least partly a backlash against managed care. "You have a jury pool today made up of people who are not happy with their doctor and their managed care provider," said Mr. Miller of the St. Paul Companies. "When they're told about this poor person that was killed or injured, they're in a position to relate."
The physician insurers association, based in Washington, has been lobbying Congress to include in the Patients' Bill of Rights a limit of $250,000 on jury awards for pain and suffering in medical malpractice suits. But even in California, where this limit applies, juries keep awarding more for other damages, like medical expenses and lost wages. 
Last year, in California, juries awarded more than $1 million in 39 malpractice lawsuits, up from 28 seven years earlier, according to Medical Underwriters of California. The average award rose to $2.9 million from $2 million. 
In about a dozen states, there have been no rate increases so far this year. But experts say they will probably spread. Now that the leading malpractice insurers have raised rates, their competitors are expected to match or nearly match them. 
"There's no end in sight to this," said Mr. Smarr, of the physician insurers group. "The companies will have to take some very large rate increases to sustain their viability." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); INSURANCE (91%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (86%); DAMAGES (78%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); JURY TRIALS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (70%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MALPRACTICE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INSURANCE 

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (53%); ENSTAR GROUP LTD (51%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (53%); ESGR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (51%)

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



281 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
New York Jobs Cut By Interpublic Unit

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
The New York office of Foote, Cone & Belding, part of the FCB Group unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, is laying off an estimated 50 to 75 employees, which could end up being more than 10 percent of its staff.
 The agency, in a statement on Friday, described the dismissals as part of "an alignment of agency resources to meet the challenges experienced by many clients across the board" because of "the softening of the economy and reduction in ad spending." 
 The New York office works on accounts that include Compaq Computer, PepsiCo and Philip Morris. These are the first significant layoffs at the office, coming after large cutbacks in the staffs of offices in Chicago; El Segundo, Calif.; and San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); DISMISSALS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%) ADVERTISING; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (95%); NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (58%); DRAFTFCB INC (58%); PEPSICO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOTE CONE & BELDING 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (95%); PEP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



282 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: Tough U.S. Visa Policy Riles Shut-Out Scholars in China 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Yu Jie had surmounted so many obstacles en route to attending business school in the United States. Born in a small coastal city, he accumulated a degree in international finance and a decade of prestigious work experience, as a business consultant and later as a journalist.
 He learned English and got high marks on the proficiency exam as well as on the standardized test for graduate school. He got family members to lend him tuition and was accepted by Purdue University, his first choice, in February. 
 But as Purdue begins classes, Mr. Yu remains here -- having crashed into a final barrier: the American Embassy repeatedly refused to grant him a visa, saying officials believed that he really wanted to get to the United States and stay there. 
"They only talked to me for a few minutes," said Mr. Yu, a gregarious, clean-cut 29-year-old, from the offices of the influential policy journal where he remains a top editor. "I think there's no way to judge, especially in such a short time. It seems like a snap decision."
In a year in which record numbers of Chinese have applied for visas -- and been rejected -- the American Embassy visa section here has suddenly become a focal point of anti-American resentment, its decisions derided as arbitrary and unfair.
Chinese newspapers have been running editorials and multipart series criticizing its performance. 
Internet chat rooms devoted to the visa section are filled with students' battle tales and analysis of the personality and foibles of each visa officer. "The inscrutable beings behind the glass are rejecting an unprecedented number of applicants, with full or nearly full scholarships," read one article in a series currently running in the popular Beijing Youth Daily, one of many Chinese publications to report the issue.
From the Chinese perspective, the issue is simple: on the basis of interviews lasting less than five minutes, thousands of Chinese this year have found their longstanding plans for study, travel or work jettisoned. Those denied visas include students with full scholarships to Ivy League schools and grandparents wanting to see a first grandchild.
While such cases are not unique to China, the numbers here have become huge and the aftermath especially far-reaching. There now are more students at American universities from China than from any other country, more than 50,000 last year, and a number of universities have complained that they are being denied valued students and teaching assistants. 
More important, those denials disproportionately affect young, highly educated students and professionals, seeding resentment in a group that has played an important role in improving ties between the countries.
But American Embassy officials are inclined to be suspicious: historically, a majority of Chinese students have indeed remained in the United States after graduation, although most did so legally, and the Chinese government says that the number returning home is now growing by more than 10 percent a year. 
Large numbers of Chinese have faced rejections this year, embassy officials acknowledge, and the rejection rate has been high compared with last year. But they deny that the proportion of applications turned down is an all time high -- although they refused to release statistics for fear they would be "misleading."
The embassy only tallies the percentage of applications that are successful and, since many Chinese apply several times before succeeding or giving up, it is hard to know how many individuals are turned down.
However, the United States government did release figures for the six weeks between May 15 and June 20, which showed that 41 percent of student applications were rejected during that time, up from 27 percent over the same period a year earlier.
The statistics also showed that just over half of applications from research scholars and professionals were rejected, up from 38 percent in 2000, although Chinese note that the odds seem to have become somewhat better recently.
An American diplomat said that one reason more people are being rejected is that more high school students are applying. Another is that the total number of applications is growing so fast -- up 17 percent, to more than 400,000 last year.
A vast majority of Chinese, like Mr. Yu, are rejected because a visa officer makes what is often a highly subjective determination: that the applicant harbors intentions of staying on in the United States -- whether legally or illegally -- which disqualifies the applicant for a visa under United States law. 
The interviewers, often first- or second-year Foreign Service officers, see well over 100 people a day on summer months, spending only minutes with each one. No wonder, then, that visa interview consulting booths are flourishing across from the American Embassy and Internet chat rooms are filled with hints on interview strategies. 
Given handles like "Glassboy" and "Big Taiwan Mama," visa officers have become minor celebrities to desperate students, who sometimes apply more than half a dozen times. The cost is $55 a try, a standard fee that is equivalent to about a month's salary in much of China.
"Taiwan Big Ma likes short answers and transcripts," said one successful applicant, identified only as Egirl to the chat room.
An American diplomat here acknowledged that getting a visa has become "the most stressful part" of applying for study in the United States -- by far the preferred destination of students. "We realize we are making life-altering decisions," he said. "But I think our people do a wonderful job given the tools we have."
If the Chinese are unhappy with high rejection rates, he said, they should not blame the visa officers, but the 50-year-old American immigration law.
Most Chinese are rejected under section 214-B of the code, which states that applicants should be denied a visa if they have "intent to immigrate," by legal means or not.
According to the law, every applicant is presumed to have "immigrant intent" until the candidate can convince an interviewer otherwise. It is a presumption that many Chinese find particularly galling. Although "innocent until proven guilty" is a basic presumption of American law, noted the article in the Beijing Youth Daily, "the applicant is assumed to be guilty of harboring a secret wish to stay in America." 
But the law is also "contradictory," acknowledged the American diplomat, because it presents numerous means for students to stay on legally in the United States after their visas expire. In fact, most Chinese students who stay on in the United States do so legally, he said, by going to work for an American company or university that sponsors them. "They are people who become very productive members of the U.S. economy -- it's not a drain on the U.S. at all," he added.
Mr. Yu, the editor who was denied a visa, insists that he wants to return, but in three different visa interviews, he failed to make his case.
On June 14, his first try, questions focused on his career. He said he wanted to return to get a job with a bank in Hong Kong, Shanghai or Beijing. Result: a 214-B rejection.
On July 10, he was assigned to "the woman officer whom everyone is afraid of for her high rejection rates." She told him that, as an M.B.A., "he would have more opportunities in the U.S. than in China." 214-B again.
On Aug. 9, three days after he was to have registered at Purdue, he tried again -- this time armed even with letters of support from American diplomats in Beijing. He said the visa officer asked him outright, four times, to prove he would return.
He did not quite know what to say. He mentioned friends and family in China, his goal of a bank job, and the career he has already made for himself here. "He said you have still not convinced us," recalled Mr. Yu. By then, time had run out.
The American Embassy says it tries to take into account many factors in trying to determine who might -- or might not -- return.
They are favorably disposed to people who have previously traveled to other countries and have returned.
Also, they look for ties that bind to China -- a successful family business, a home, a car, a job already offered for their return, a spouse or child left behind.
The evaluation is not high science. Anyway, critics say, it is impossible to sort out by these crude tests which applicants intend to return.
Fang Lin, a doctor specializing in rehabilitating people who have suffered traumas like strokes or heart attacks, was invited to present a paper last December at a conference sponsored by Baylor Medical College, in Texas. Her specialty is a fledgling field in China, and she looked forward to learning from American colleagues.
Dr. Fang, 30, has worked at one of Beijing's most upscale clinics, The Friendship Hospital, since 1993. She and her husband -- a successful executive -- own an apartment and two cars and have traveled to Hong Kong and South Korea as tourists. He was not planning to accompany her.
Still, she was turned down twice late last year, both times for "immigrant intent;" after that, it was too late to apply again. Of the five doctors from her hospital invited to the conference, only two were approved.
"I never dreamed it would be such trouble -- I was just going to a conference," she said, adding, "They think that everyone wants to leave."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Outside the American Embassy in Beijing, Judy Xu, 25, said she had just been granted a visa on her third visit. (Mark Leong/Matrix)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); REFUGEES (79%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WRITERS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); GRANDPARENTS (76%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); CHAT ROOMS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FOREIGN STUDY, TEACHING AND TRAVEL; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ASYLUM (POLITICAL) 

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (87%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



283 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: FEAR OF RECESSION IGNITES DISCUSSION OF MORE TAX CUTS 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
As the economy takes on a recessionary tone and the political stakes rise, the two parties are scrambling to come up with proposals to rekindle prosperity, with Democrats and Republicans alike saying today that further tax cuts are possible if the deterioration continues.
 Urged on by Republicans in Congress who are nervous that an extended downturn could harm their election prospects in 2002, President Bush is considering such responses as cutting spending to keep the budget balanced or cutting capital gains taxes to give Wall Street a lift. 
 Administration officials said the president had not decided to back any particular proposal. They said he believed that previous steps, including the tax cut he signed in June, should spark a recovery before long. If it does not, they said, he might eventually seek further actions. 
"We need to let the president's tax cut, as well as the Federal Reserve's interest rate cuts, take full effect," said Jennifer Millerwise, a White House spokeswoman. "But the president also hasn't closed the door on any further tax cuts."
The politics of handling the economy have shifted rapidly just since Friday, when the government reported that unemployment last month surged to 4.9 percent from 4.5 percent in July.
Democrats are seeking to pin the blame for the economy on Mr. Bush. They are linking the slowdown in growth and the rise in unemployment to their argument that Mr. Bush squandered the federal budget surplus by pushing through an irresponsible tax cut.
"It's his budget, it's his economy, it's his tax cut, it's his solution," Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, said today on ABC's "This Week."
But a number of Democrats said today that they, too, might support further economic stimulus, especially as part of a deal to scale back the longer-term components of Mr. Bush's tax cut. One idea mentioned by several Democrats was an immediate tax cut that would extend even to people who do not make enough money to pay federal income taxes.
One such measure would temporarily reduce the payroll tax that finances Social Security. This would reduce the current surplus in the retirement trust fund, but would not divert the trust fund into government spending, or concentrate another round of tax cuts on the wealthy.
"We'd want to do something to put money in people's pockets quickly," Senator Kent Conrad, the North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said on "Fox News Sunday."
Any agreement could be hampered by the partisanship that has surrounded the budget, and by the pledges of both parties to avoid spending any portion of the budget surplus generated by Social Security.
To a large degree, the political decisions in the weeks ahead will be driven by the economy. Economists have lacked success in predicting downturns or calling the moment at which a weakened economy starts to recover, and there is considerable debate right now about just where in the cycle this economy is.
But economists and other analysts said the nation appeared to have reached something of a turning point, if only psychologically. The risks of protracted economic weakness, they said, are beginning to weigh more heavily on consumers, investors and politicians, all of whom had grown optimistic and perhaps complacent with prosperity.
"I don't know whether we're in a recession or not, but people are looking around and getting scared," said Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a research group in Washington. "That in itself can be a negative factor."
One result has been to focus new scrutiny on the limited policy choices available. The Federal Reserve has already cut interest rates seven times this year. Although the Fed is likely to continue doing so, at this point it is mostly waiting for past rate cuts to be felt, a process that usually takes six to nine months.
For the administration and Congress, the question is how to reconcile their growing interest in tax cuts or spending increases -- the traditional fiscal responses to a flagging economy -- with their pledge not to touch the portion of the budget surplus generated by Social Security.
Mr. Bush has said he would put aside his pledge not to dip into Social Security money if the economy went into a recession. But for now the White House and both parties in Congress are assuming that is not an option.
Although the economy still seems to be moving ahead, it has decelerated so sharply that businesses and individuals might feel like they have hit a wall, analysts said.
The economy's growth rate has dropped from a robust 5.7 percent during the spring of last year to just two-tenths of one percent in the same period this year, its weakest performance in eight years. Typically, a drop-off of that magnitude would mean a swing from an expanding economy to a shrinking one, the primary attribute of a recession.
Moreover, the indicator that more than any other brings economic difficulty home -- joblessness -- has now shot up by a full percentage point in 10 months, from 3.9 percent last October to 4.9 percent in August.
"It's a very powerful policy and psychological point, because it feels like you've fallen off a cliff," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a research group in Washington.
The prevailing view among economists has been that the economy would begin to recover by the end of the year, and there is still considerable evidence to support that outlook. 
The tax cut is putting $38 billion worth of rebate checks into the hands of consumers in a 10-week period. The sharp slide in manufacturing seems to be leveling off. New claims for unemployment insurance may have peaked. 
But there are considerable risks, including the spread of economic weakness around the world, especially in Japan. 
White House officials and Republicans from Capitol Hill who have recently met together said there was broad agreement not to rush into any decisions. Mr. Bush and his team especially counseled patience, participants in the meetings said.
But Republican leaders including Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the minority leader, and J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, the speaker of the House, made clear to Mr. Bush that their colleagues in Congress did not want to have to run next year under the cloud of a recession.
Although Mr. Bush has been noncommittal about cutting the capital gains tax, Republicans said that Mr. Hastert is likely to bring a bill to the floor of the House within the next month or so. Conveniently, such a change might actually raise more money for the government in the first year or two by encouraging investors to sell stocks they might otherwise hold on to. In that way, the tax cut would not force Congress to break its Social Security pledge.
Even as they talk about fiscal stimulus, House Republicans are also pressing for an automatic, across-the-board cut in government spending in the coming fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1. The cuts would be equal to the amount of the Social Security surplus the government is spending this year, allowing Congress to say it has paid back any money taken from Social Security.
The Congressional Budget Office projected last month that the budget would dip into Social Security by $9 billion this year, an estimate the White House no longer disputes.
But neither party in the Senate is enthusiastic about trying to cut spending across the board. In addition to being hard to carry out, cutting spending in the face of a recession might actually slow the economy further. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); RECESSION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (63%); INTEREST RATES (53%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KENT CONRAD (58%); TOM DASCHLE (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



284 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1822 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNING FOR MAYOR; 
Confronting the Economy's Future and Media Rumors

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from yesterday's debate between the Republican candidates for mayor, as recorded by The New York Times. The debate was broadcast on WNBC, Channel 4, and was moderated by Gabe Pressman.

Q. Mr. Bloomberg, your opponent here says you're trying to buy this election. You're a billionaire, he barely has enough money to buy postage. Do you agree that this is far from a level playing field?

MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG -- Well, money can get your message out. I do not have a long record in public service. My record is in private service, so I've got to use whatever resources I have to explain to the people who I am. But you can't buy the public, you can't buy their votes, you can't buy The Daily News endorsement, you can't buy the endorsement of the largest Spanish language daily. . . .

Q. Mr. Badillo, you've barely raised any money, as I pointed out. People say your time has passed. You've been very low in the polls. Why do you persist in running?

HERMAN BADILLO -- Well, I've been trying to expand the base of the Republican Party for the past eight years in order to make it the majority and responsible party in New York City. I joined Rudy Giuliani in 1993, and I ran for comptroller with him, and I brought in a large number of Hispanics and other Republicans that enabled Rudy to be elected. And then I supported Rudy in 1997. That is the reason that we had a tremendous reduction in crime. That's the reason that we've proven that the City of New York is governable. And now the Republican Party, with Mr. Bloomberg, is trying to go back to the old days of being the party of money. . . . And I expect that the Republican Party voters . . . will vote for me and not for the fellow who has not one day of experience at all.

Q. Now, you're both self-defrocked Democrats. Do you have an identity crisis about whether you're Democrats or Republicans?

BADILLO -- Not me. I endorsed Rudy Giuliani way back in 1993, as I said, because I wanted to have a mayor who would agree that the city is manageable. And prior to that, you may remember under Mayor Dinkins there were policies that allowed 2,100 murders a year.

Q. What about you Mr. Bloomberg? Did you become a Republican because it was the easy way to get elected mayor?

BLOOMBERG -- Well, the Republican Party called me, asked me to run. I've been endorsed by almost all local Republican government officials and party leaders. And I agree with the Republican values of those inclusive Republicans like the mayor, like the governor. And I'm very comfortable in running as a Republican, and I will stay a Republican long after this election. . . .

BADILLO -- He has not been endorsed by the largest Republican leaders. Neither the mayor nor the governor has taken a stand. The senator, Guy J. Velella, and the entire Bronx Republicans have endorsed me. Senator Frank Padavan has endorsed me. Assemblyman Robert A. Straniere has endorsed me. . . . The largest Hispanic papers, El Diario, La Prensa, and they endorse me.

Q. Mr. Bloomberg, something that's come up in the last few days is the New York magazine article by Michael Wolff, in which he refers to a book of quotations supposedly said in jest by you, presented to you as a booklet at a party. Among them are that, if women wanted to be appreciated for their brains, and I quote, they'd go to the library instead of to Bloomingdale's. Did you say that?

BLOOMBERG -- I don't remember ever saying that. This was a book that was given to me as a joke 10 years ago at a party. I probably never saw it after that. It's a bunch of borscht belt jokes that somebody had put together. It does not reflect my views back then, or now. And the fact that it comes up three days before a primary -- come on, that's just normal politics, so I'm told. I'm not a politician and I don't want to get involved in it . . . It doesn't reflect me. I apologize if anybody's offended by it. But I didn't say those things. I didn't write the book.

Q. What about, I make it a rule never to go to Queens, and since that eliminates both airports I don't travel a great deal. Did you say that?

BLOOMBERG -- Well, the fact of the matter is, I'm a pilot and I fly out of both of those airports. So that shows you how ridiculous it is.

Q. But Queens is a hotbed of registered Republicans.

BLOOMBERG -- I've spent an enormous amount of time in Queens, thank you very much. I was there yesterday. I'll be there today.

Q. What about, if Jesus were a Jew, why does he have a Puerto Rican first name?

BLOOMBERG -- I never heard that joke before. But I'm -- one of the comedians, one of the columnists on television said they'd heard that joke 40 years earlier.

Q. I thought you had said that you hadn't said that. But in any event ----

BLOOMBERG -- I certainly don't think I said that.

Q. It seems to be a pattern of humor. If you believe at all in Freud, all jokes are based on truth, on real feelings. Could some of these jests represent your real feelings?

BLOOMBERG -- I haven't even bothered to read the stories about it or read the book. It was something handed to me, written by somebody else 10 years ago, at a party. They handed it to me, I'm sure I handed it to one of the staff people. And I never saw it again. So I just don't know. . . .

BADILLO -- I have to comment on this, because I don't believe that anyone in his right mind would believe that Mr. Bloomberg would forget about 32 pages in a book which has remarks that he has made and the introduction says that these are some of the gentlest things that he has said. Now, the reality is that he was given a bound copy of this book. He -- if these remarks were made by any politician, he'd be driven out of office. What these remarks indicate is the real Michael Bloomberg. Because he has been hiding behind $30 million of commercials. This is really the first debate we've had a chance to have on television. I've been debating with the four Democrats and an empty chair for months because he doesn't want people to know who the real Bloomberg is. These 32 pages bring out who the real person is. . . .

BLOOMBERG -- Nobody alleges that I said this. It was in a book written by somebody else. Let's go on to the issues. Come on. . . .

Q. The stock market has been faltering. The economy seems to be in very poor shape. Now the independent budget office says that there's a $3 billion shortfall. What will you do to address this if you're elected mayor?

BADILLO -- Well, we had that problem when I was deputy mayor in 1978 because we had the New York City fiscal crisis, which was even worse than the projected amount of a deficit now. . . . And we dealt with it by cutting the budget in a sensible way, cutting departments in such a way that we would not destroy the capacity of the department to perform until the economy was restored. That's the way to do it. Not by increasing taxes. Because if you increase taxes, as Mayor Dinkins did, you will find that you're going to lose jobs and you're going to lose the middle class.

BLOOMBERG -- Well, my recollection is that back then there were some elected officials that even recommended New York City go bankrupt. Fortunately Hugh Carey kept us from doing that. I think what you have to do is you cannot raise taxes under any circumstances. And what I promise I will not do is I won't fudge the accounting, which is typically done. I won't borrow, which commits our kids to a terrible future of debt service. And I won't postpone maintenance. What you have to do is you have to set some priorities. My priorities are: No. 1, keep the streets safe, no matter what it costs; No. 2, focus on education, or we will never have a good economy again and we'll never have jobs coming here; and then No. 3, you sit there with every single other department and say, I want to know what would happen if I had to cut 2 percent, 5 percent, 7 percent. . . .

Q. What about the fence around City Hall, which some people regard as symbolic of a lack of information coming out of this administration. Will you tear down the fence? And will you open up the agencies? And will you allow your commissioners to speak freely?

BLOOMBERG -- Yes, yes and yes. Get rid of the fence. I would do that the first day I am in office. The second thing is, I think the mayor is going in the right direction of trying to have all the agencies that report to him put every bit of information possible on the Internet so that everybody can see. And three, I've just always run a business, and my theory has always been: get all the information out there. If you don't know what's going on, you can't fix the problem.

BADILLO -- My public record shows that I've always believed in open government. I would tear down the fence. But more than that, I would meet with the people who are my opponents. I did that, as you know, when I was chairman of the City University, and I restored standards. And I was criticized. I was called a racist; I was called an ethnic cleanser. But I met with my opponents. I met with the students. I debated the head of the faculty senate. I called public hearings because I want people to know exactly what I am proposing and why I'm proposing it. And I believe in facing my opponents. That's why I believe in debate. That's why I wanted to have debates with Mr. Bloomberg for every week for the past two months. . . .

Q. Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Badillo, it's time now for your closing statements. The order was determined by a coin toss.

BLOOMBERG -- Well, this election is about three things: it is about leadership, it is about accountability, and it is about independence. I've shown that I know how to lead. I've built a worldwide company, 8,000 employees. We've been a big success thanks to those people. And I can do the same thing in managing this city's $40 billion, 250,000 employee company -- budget. I can -- I am accountable. I've been accountable every day. I know exactly what it means to make a payroll. I know what it means to provide health care. I know what it means to look people in the eye and bring them together rather than make them divisive. And in terms of independence, I don't think that anybody expects anybody to buy me. The fact of the matter is, what I can do here is I can bring jobs and I can bring housing and I can help the school system.

BADILLO -- Mr. Bloomberg has been hiding behind $30 million of commercials. And now that the booklet reveals who the real Bloomberg is, The Daily News reports today that Mr. Bloomberg's lawyers, Willkie Farr & Gallagher, have threatened her and told her not to open her mouth to let people know that in fact everything that is in that book is the truth and that there is more behind it. I call upon Mr. Bloomberg to call his lawyers off. Let the woman who wrote the book tell the public who you really are. And if that happens, people are not going to vote for a $30 million commercial. They're going to vote for a real person with experience. They're going to vote for my candidacy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Bloomberg and Herman Badillo, the Republicans running for mayor, touched on topics yesterday from Mr. Bloomberg's self-financed campaign to the faltering economy. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; DEBATING; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (89%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R; BADILLO, HERMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



285 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: In America; 
Obscuring The Real Issues

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
All four candidates in the Democratic primary will tell you that the last thing they want is an ethnically polarized race for their party's mayoral nomination.
 But despite the civil tone of this year's campaign, and the best stated intentions of Mark Green, Fernando Ferrer, Alan Hevesi and Peter Vallone, the politics of polarization are threatening to take center stage yet again. 
 In a televised debate yesterday, Mr. Vallone, the City Council speaker, accused Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, of using tactics that were racially divisive. 
A little background.
Of all the candidates running in this mayoral season, Mr. Green, the city's public advocate, appeared to be gathering the most diverse group of supporters. Polls showed him doing especially well among black voters. But a recent surge by Mr. Ferrer, fueled in part by the endorsement of the Rev. Al Sharpton, appears to be eroding Mr. Green's black support. 
A month ago, a poll by the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion showed Mr. Green favored by 48 percent of black voters and Mr. Ferrer by 14 percent. But a new Marist poll, released last Friday, showed Mr. Ferrer outpolling Mr. Green among blacks by 47 to 30 percent.
Mr. Ferrer has tried mightily from the beginning to forge a coalition of black and Hispanic voters. And while he has said repeatedly that he never intended to exclude white voters, several aspects of his campaign have combined to make non-Hispanic whites wary.
Mr. Ferrer has been the candidate most critical of the policies of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. He has anointed himself the champion of the "other New York," which is made up, he says, of residents who have not done well during the Giuliani years. He made it clear for months that he craved the endorsement of Mr. Sharpton, who is still seen by many whites as a symbol of divisiveness. And he has recently been sharply critical of former Police Commissioner William Bratton, an early architect of Mr. Giuliani's crime-fighting strategies who is now a staunch Green ally.
The polls have shown Mr. Ferrer stuck in single digits among white voters. Last week's Marist poll showed him favored by just 9 percent of whites, and just 6 percent of Jewish voters.
For several months the polls showed Mr. Ferrer, Mr. Vallone and Mr. Hevesi all lagging behind Mr. Green, with no clear indication of who was running second. But recent polls, taken in the aftermath of Mr. Sharpton's endorsement, have shown Mr. Ferrer in a statistical dead heat for first place with Mr. Green.
Mr. Vallone, running well behind in the latest polls, said during the debate that Mr. Ferrer's repeated references to the "other New York" encouraged racial polarization. "While I know it's not done intentionally on Freddy's part," said Mr. Vallone, using Mr. Ferrer's nickname, "when you are talking about a divided city, suddenly it becomes us against them." 
Later, as if for emphasis, Mr. Vallone said, "What you're doing is dividing the city."
Mr. Ferrer again denied that his tactics were divisive, and he angrily accused Mr. Vallone of trying to "inflame divisions."
However the election goes tomorrow -- keeping in mind that Mr. Vallone and Mr. Hevesi still have a shot at a runoff -- it would be a shame if ethnic politics, a dominant and corrosive force in so many recent elections, trumped the important issues currently facing the city.
Above all, the next mayor will almost certainly have to deal with tough fiscal and economic conditions. The Wall Street bubble that gave the Giuliani administration such a fun ride is history. Unemployment is rising. Budget gaps are looming. And big municipal unions -- think cops, think teachers -- are clamoring for raises.
A report on the city's budget from Comptroller Hevesi's office two months ago said, "In the last few years the city has used its record budget surpluses to address short-term budget problems, thereby leaving long-term (structural) budget imbalances unaddressed. Once the surplus disappears, the city will be forced to address out-year gaps by cutting vital services."
The polarizing issues are the easiest to talk and write about. But it's the other issues -- like the budget, and schools, and safe neighborhoods and affordable housing -- that get to the heart and soul of day-to-day life in a great city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (71%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (83%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%); AL SHARPTON (72%) HERBERT, BOB; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); SPITZ, GEORGE N 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



286 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNING FOR MAYOR: THE REPUBLICANS; 
Joke Book Proves Bloomberg Is Unfit, Badillo Says in Debate

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY 

 BODY:
With the campaign drawing to a close and no money for television advertisements, Herman Badillo yesterday used the only televised debate of the Republican primary to try to cast doubt on the character of his opponent, Michael R. Bloomberg.
 Mr. Badillo suggested that his rival was not fit to be mayor because of off-color remarks attributed to Mr. Bloomberg that are included in a booklet of quotations compiled 11 years ago. 
 Mr. Bloomberg answered questions about the booklet -- a birthday gift from some employees at his communications company in 1990 -- that were posed by the moderator, Gabe Pressman of WNBC-TV. But Mr. Bloomberg would not be drawn into a direct exchange about the booklet's contents with Mr. Badillo, who devoted his entire closing statement to the subject. 
"It doesn't reflect me," Mr. Bloomberg said of the assortment of jokes and aphorisms, many of them crude and insulting to women, Jews and gays. "I apologize if anybody's offended by it. But I didn't say those things. I didn't write the book."
Mr. Badillo described the items in the booklet as unforgivable and said that Mr. Bloomberg should pay the highest political price for them.
"If these remarks were made by any politician, he'd be driven out of office," Mr. Badillo said.
Given another opportunity by Mr. Pressman to respond, Mr. Bloomberg said: "It was in a book written by somebody else. Let's go on to the issues. Come on."
The offensive by Mr. Badillo came in the final 48 hours of a Republican contest between one of New York City's most veteran politicians and its biggest-name political newcomer. Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire businessman running for office for the first time, has swamped Mr. Badillo, a former Bronx borough president and congressman making his fourth bid for mayor. 
Mr. Bloomberg's fortune has enabled him to run a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign that has dominated the television and radio airwaves.
Mr. Bloomberg also agreed to only two face-to-face encounters with Mr. Badillo, giving Mr. Badillo a small window of opportunity to challenge his opponent in person. 
In yesterday's 30-minute debate, Mr. Pressman posed a broad range of questions about topics other than the birthday booklet, including education, the economy, housing and the Republican Party. 
Responding to a query about open government, both candidates said they would remove the fence around City Hall. Mr. Bloomberg pledged to tear it down on his first day in office.
In the event of a worsening economic downturn, Mr. Bloomberg said that "you cannot raise taxes under any circumstances," a statement that goes beyond what he said in the only other Republican debate, an Aug. 31 exchange that was broadcast on WNYC-AM. In that debate, Mr. Bloomberg said that raising taxes would be bad economic policy but that he could not "prudently promise" not to do so.
Mr. Badillo repeated his pledge not to raise taxes and suggested that he would be the better of the two candidates in managing the city's economic problems because of his experience as deputy mayor in the 1970's, when the city endured its worst fiscal crisis. Mr. Bloomberg, who insisted that he was a superior manager, drew attention to Mr. Badillo's onetime support for a bankruptcy strategy.
"My recollection is that back then there were some elected officials that even recommended New York City go bankrupt," Mr. Bloomberg said. 
Seated side by side in dark suits in the WNBC studio at Rockefeller Center, the two candidates appeared formal and cool during the live broadcast, only occasionally picking up on each other's remarks and rarely catching each other's gaze. At the end, they briefly shook hands before going their separate ways to speak with reporters.
In his closing statement, Mr. Bloomberg said the election was about three things: leadership, accountability and independence.
"The fact of the matter is, what I can do here is I can bring jobs and I can bring housing and I can help the school system," Mr. Bloomberg said.
In his final remarks, Mr. Badillo referred to an article in yesterday's Daily News and called on Mr. Bloomberg to allow the editor of the booklet, Elisabeth DeMarse, to come forward and clear the air about its origin and contents.
The Daily News reported that Ms. DeMarse, a former employee of Bloomberg L.P., had been contacted by lawyers for the company and reminded that she had signed a confidentiality agreement when she accepted a severance package.
Reached late last night at a hotel near Palm Beach, Fla., Ms. DeMarse said, "I cannot answer any questions or comment on Bloomberg, the man or the company. I'm sorry and good luck." She then hung up.
Ms. DeMarse is quoted in an article about the booklet in the current issue of New York magazine, but she has declined requests for an interview from other publications.
"Let the woman who wrote the book tell the public who you really are," Mr. Badillo said. "And if that happens, people are not going to vote for a $30 million commercial. They're going to vote for a real person with experience."
In speaking to reporters, Mr. Bloomberg said the severance agreement with Ms. DeMarse was a standard practice at many companies. He said that he did not ask the lawyers to contact Ms. DeMarse, but in doing so, they were doing "what they're supposed to do." 
"We have an agreement with former employees: we can't talk about them and they don't talk about the company," he said. "And that's the agreement. And we'll stick by our agreement. We certainly are not going to talk about anybody." 
The Bloomberg campaign has cast the last-minute surfacing of the booklet as a political cheap shot and has sought to distance Mr. Bloomberg from it. He has for the most part stayed above the fray, even declining to pick up on a suggestion by Mr. Pressman that he may have been the victim of a dirty trick.
"I don't want to characterize things," Mr. Bloomberg said.
The 32-page booklet purports to be an "unauthorized collection of unauthorized sayings" by Mr. Bloomberg. It was compiled by Ms. DeMarse and other employees at Bloomberg L.P., apparently as a gag gift for his birthday in 1990. 
The booklet came to light last week because of an article in The New York Post that quoted an advance copy of the New York magazine article.
Mr. Badillo insisted that Mr. Bloomberg was guilty of sexual harassment because of the demeaning references to women in the booklet.
"These 32 pages bring out who the real person is," Mr. Badillo said. "And that real person, as a matter of fact, as a lawyer, I am telling you, is guilty of sexual harassment because the remarks he made about women would be considered sexual harassment in any company."
For Mr. Badillo, whose campaign was last week denied $1 million in campaign matching funds it intended to use for advertisements, the birthday booklet is being embraced as a great hope for defeating Mr. Bloomberg. 
"It is never too late for people to change their minds," Mr. Badillo told reporters after the debate.
Speaking later to reporters during a campaign stop at the Third Avenue Fair on the Upper East Side, Mr. Bloomberg defended his company's record on sexual harassment, which included several lawsuits by women that have been settled, withdrawn or dismissed, according to court records. 
"I don't know what these guys are talking about," Mr. Bloomberg said. "We take it phenomenally seriously. And we have a stellar record for 20 years with 8,000 employees."
Mr. Bloomberg went on to Brooklyn and Queens later in the day, where his stops included the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society Celebration in Asser Levy Seaside Park and the Great Irish Fair in Coney Island, which Gov. George E. Pataki also visited. A spokeswoman for the governor said it was a coincidence that he was there at the same time as Mr. Bloomberg.
Mr. Badillo spent most of the afternoon meeting voters and handing out literature at the Third Avenue Fair. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CITIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); WRITERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) MURPHY, DEAN E; BADILLO, HERMAN; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



287 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
80% of Germany's Cable Systems Selling Abroad

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
In back-to-back transactions, one announced last week and one that could be announced as early as Monday, two Denver-based dealmakers are paying about $7 billion to control 80 percent of the cable television systems in Germany.
 On Tuesday, Liberty Media announced an agreement to buy six regional cable systems from Deutsche Telekom for about 5.5 billion euros ($5 million). Liberty, headed by John C. Malone and based in Denver, will have 10 million cable subscribers in Germany and become the biggest cable operator in Europe. 
 Deutsche Telekom also plans to sell one of its biggest systems for about $2.7 billion to partnerships headed by Richard Callahan, a former executive at US West and a longtime cable investor in Europe who already owns one system in Germany and others in Spain and Belgium. Mr. Callahan heads Callahan Associates International, based in London, but spends much time in Denver. 
The two deals come after tortuous negotiations with Deutsche Telekom, which had been talking with bidders for more than two years but which became a desperate seller after stock prices for telephone and cable companies crashed.
Between them, the companies will have 14 million of Germany's 17 million cable subscribers, making them the dominant cable providers in the country. They will also have more control than the German telephone company originally planned to surrender, and some analysts say the price was low.
The risks are high. The two companies will have to spend more than $1 billion each to modernize the German networks, many of which are more than 20 years old and offer little more than about 30 channels. Both Mr. Malone and Mr. Callahan think they can make their real money by using the networks to offer telephone service, high-speed Internet access and a broader selection of channels.
 But even if that plan is valid, Germany presents some singular headaches. Unlike cable operators in most other countries, Deutsche Telekom had direct connections to only about one-third of its customers. For the rest, it supplied its basic package of services to scores of local distributors and housing associations, which in turn control the cables that reach into homes.
Both Liberty and Callahan are on the prowl to buy up the local operators, or at least to cut new deals with them. But even so, the average German subscriber pays less than $15 a month for cable services and, thus far at least, pays for few frills.
 "To offer attractive new services to the customer base, all of these companies have to go through quite a challenging and expensive upgrade," said Frank Knowles, a high-yield bond analyst who follows European cable companies at Merrill Lynch. "It is a huge project."
 Mr. Callahan, in a telephone interview from Denver, said the German market had ample room to grow. "There is great potential to bring in new programming," he said. And Germany has a big domestic television and film production business that can be tapped for added material, he said. Beyond that, he is counting on telephone and high-speed Internet services to provide important revenue. "Germany is getting pretty close to hypergrowth in the Internet," he said.
Liberty, which was controlled by AT&T but separated from it last month, owns more than $50 billion in shares of media and telecommunication companies.
On Friday, in a meeting with analysts in New York, company executives said they might finance their expansion in Europe by selling billions of dollars' worth of shares in Cendant, Motorola, Sprint PCS and Viacom. 
 "Cash is king and we think there are a number of opportunities to add to our assets," said Robert Bennett, the chief executive of Liberty. Mr. Malone told the group that Liberty might create a separate tracking stock for its international holdings.
 Until recently, Deutsche Telekom wanted to keep a considerable amount of control. It wanted to retain 45 percent of the stock in its cable systems and apparently hoped to cash in if the buyers ever took their systems public. But the crash in telecommunication and cable stocks -- including Deutsche Telecom shares, which on Friday dropped below their original offering price back in 1996 -- forced the German company into concessions.
 As a result, Liberty is acquiring 100 percent of six systems, including ones that serve Berlin, Hamburg and the affluent state of Bavaria. But most of the systems are in Eastern Germany, which is poorer than the west and is mired in double-digit unemployment. 
Callahan will acquire 60 percent of one system and 55 percent of another. But in contrast to Deutsche Telekom's initial demands, Callahan received an option to buy out the remaining Telekom stakes as well.
 Both companies have a lot of work to do. Besides upgrading the old networks, analysts say, the purchase of or the cutting of new deals with scores of local operators is essential for making a profit.
 That is not an insurmountable problem. Liberty effectively controls another European cable operator, United Pan-European Communications, which is the local provider in several areas it serves. Another big local operator, Tele-Columbus, is for sale and will probably end up being divided by Callahan and Liberty. 
 But the costs will be high. Mr. Callahan says that upgrading systems will take about 350 euros, or $318, per household. That would add up to $1.5 billion over the next several years, though Mr. Callahan said the company may decide not to upgrade all the neighborhoods.
 To finance all that, Mr. Callahan has lined up a group of private equity investors that include Blackstone Capital Partners and Bank of America. But it is also relying heavily on high-yield junk bonds and credit lines.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John C. Malone is set to become Europe's biggest cable operator. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BROADBAND (77%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EURO (71%); BONDS (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%) TELEVISION 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (84%); CALLAHAN ASSOCIATES INTERNATIONAL LLC (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM; LIBERTY MEDIA GROUP 

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (84%); DTE (BIT) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TV SERVICES; 

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (77%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L; CALLAHAN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) COLORADO, USA (88%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



288 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Power Politics in the Senate 

 BODY:
This has not been a good year for clear thinking about energy. First came the Cheney-Bush "national energy strategy," which presupposed that the country was in the grips of a terrible energy shortage and that the only sure way to address it was to drill aggressively for more oil and gas, remove various regulatory impediments to the burning of coal and build 1,300 new power plants. The House of Representatives swallowed the Cheney-Bush scenario whole and produced an alarmingly unbalanced energy bill with $33 billion in tax breaks -- $27 billion for traditional energy producers, only $6 billion for conservation.
 The Senate must now set things right, presumably at lower cost; even the Bush administration was appalled by the House's price tag. What this country wants is an energy policy that encourages oil and gas exploration without corrupting the environment, finds more efficient ways to use the energy we have and begins planning for the day when the fossil fuels we take for granted are less abundant at home or abroad. This will not be an easy task; energy politics gets nasty (and local) in a hurry. In the House, for example, many normally reliable friends of the environment voted in favor of opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to the oil companies and against increasing fuel economy standards because they were terrified of retaliation from organized labor if they did otherwise. 
 This is a rare chance for the Senate to exercise statesmanship while reaping political rewards as well. Polls show that the two issues on which President Bush is most vulnerable are energy and the environment. The Senate cannot lose if it produces a plan more balanced and enlightened than his. It will be up to Jeff Bingaman, the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, to devise such a plan. Then Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, must sell it to his colleagues.
There are three areas where the House bill requires complete overhaul.
Improving Efficiency: The House bill dedicates $5.9 billion in various subsidies for energy efficiency and renewable energy, versus about $27 billion for the coal, oil and gas industries. It creates modest tax credits for people who buy hybrid cars, for builders of more energy-efficient homes and for manufacturers of some energy-saving appliances. But it does nothing to improve the efficiency of one of the biggest energy users of all, air-conditioners, and it is here that the Senate could usefully resurrect the tough standards imposed by the Clinton administration that President Bush is trying to roll back.
The most important and courageous step, however, and one the House refused to take, would be to close the so-called S.U.V. loophole, under which large vehicles like sport utility vehicles and minivans are classified as light trucks and thus escape the 27.5-mile-per-gallon standard required of ordinary cars. Closing that loophole, which Detroit is perfectly capable of doing, would result in oil savings of one million barrels a day by 2015, more than the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge could be expected to yield in the same time frame. 
Increasing Supply: At the heart of the House bill is a proposal to open up the refuge's coastal plain to oil exploration. That would yield only six months' to a year's worth of oil, even at favorable prices, while disrupting an ecological treasure. Industry assertions that drilling would create 750,000 new jobs have been widely discredited.
There are other steps the committee can take to increase supply. One is to see whether there is an environmentally safe way of tapping and transporting the vast supplies of natural gas at Alaska's Prudhoe Bay, where the oil industry is already firmly ensconced. Such a scheme would be expensive, and in some quarters controversial, but it makes a lot more sense than invading the refuge, the national forests, the Rocky Mountain Front and other sensitive areas on which the oil industry and the Cheney task force have cast a covetous eye. 
Improving Reliability: The House was so fixated on subsidizing traditional energy producers, including the coal-fired utilities, that it paid no attention to the way electricity is regulated and transported. That was a huge oversight that Mr. Bingaman says he intends to remedy. As the now-receding California crisis demonstrated, electricity deregulation has not gone smoothly. There are transmission problems in the West and Northeast. Power does not move easily from one region to another, and the system is full of disincentives that discourage smaller -- and potentially more efficient -- producers of power from entering the market.
None of this will come easy for Mr. Bingaman and Mr. Daschle. They must resist President Bush's seductive and specious argument that opening up new areas for oil and gas drilling and easing environmental regulations will provide an immediate economic boost. And powerful corporate and labor forces are arrayed against them. But the nation would like them to give it their best shot.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (84%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); WILDLIFE (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%); POWER PLANTS (58%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) ENERGY AND POWER; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); TOM DASCHLE (54%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (76%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2001 



289 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: A CONVERSATION WITH/Larry Gilbert; 
Plotting an Aerial Attack On Marauding Fire Ants

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA DREIFUS 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
On a recent morning, Dr. Lawrence E. Gilbert, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Texas and director of its Brackenridge Field Laboratory, was standing over a glass tank at in his office, watching a swarm of Brazilian phorid flies make buzzing attacks on some very unhappy South American fire ants.
 "The flies are really cool, being able to fly backward, flying rings around these ants," Dr. Gilbert said with enthusiasm. "They are wonderful acrobats -- just torturing those ants! You feel sorry for the ants when you see the flies attack them. Or at least, I do. But not too sorry." 
 Larry Gilbert, 59, is a great fan of the phorid fly, a tiny gray insect more formally called Pseudacteon tricuspis, because he believes that it and its kin may be an answer to one of the most troubling pest infestations in American environmental history. 
For at least 60 years, an aggressive red fire ant, originally from Brazil, has been thriving in the American South, spreading through Texas, and attacking indigenous birds, lizards and other small animals.
Dr. Gilbert was among the first to notice that phorids appeared to keep fire ants in check in South America, and he is hoping that they will do the same in the United States.
So he has been importing phorids from Brazil and Argentina and breeding them in his laboratory, then releasing them in tests. He has also been singing their praises to all who will listen.
When not on the fire ant trail, Dr. Gilbert is one of the world's experts on the passion vine butterfly. 

Q. Why should the ordinary American give any thought to a red fire ant indigenous to Brazil and Argentina?

A. Because they are here. They can be found from Florida to California, from the East Coast to the Mexican border of Texas.
Red imported fire ants are able to consume or outcompete many organisms. When fire ants are dense in pastures and cows are dropping new calves, some of these are just going to be covered with stinging workers, even blinded.
Quail and duck hatchlings and even young alligators in their nests are vulnerable to death by fire ant. It is widely thought that the endangered horned lizard has declined because of fire ants.
In addition to reducing biodiversity and injuring livestock, these fire ants damage electrical systems and incite increased use of pesticides. The economic cost of them in Texas last year exceeded $300 million.

Q. How did the fire ants get to these shores, anyway?

A. They were probably on board a ship that came from South America in the 1920's and docked in Mobile, Ala. They may have entered in the soil of a potted palm. Nobody really knows. It was Prof. Edward O. Wilson of Harvard, as a high school student in Alabama, who discovered the invasion.
Now, fire ants in their native ecosystem are not a bad thing. Indeed, in South America, these very same red fire ants are thought of as nothing more than a nuisance.
In Brazil, the attitude is, Why do you consider these a major pest?

Q. Are the fire ants native to Texas more docile than the South American kind?

A. They are not more docile, but they are no problem -- unless you are silly enough to stand on one of their mounds. In that case, they'll sting. During the 1970's, when the South American species moved into areas of Texas I knew well, my first thought was, Why is this new fire ant, which looks virtually the same as the native variety, such a pest?

Q. When people first noticed the invasion of fire ants, pesticides were used against them. You have said that this early chemical approach was a mistake. Why?

A. For one thing, no one was thinking about what broad-spectrum pesticides would do to native ants. An infected area would just be blasted. And guess which resurged better, native ants or these South American ones? The imported fire ants did.

Q. How exactly did fire ants become your passion?

A. They are not my passion; solving the fire ant problem ecologically is. And my involvement with that was a gradual process.
In 1972, after graduate school at Stanford, I returned to the University of Texas. I took a field course into East Texas, where I was immediately struck by the density of the imported fire ants' mounds in rights of way through the pine forests.
So I had my class do a survey of ants. We baited them with pieces of tuna and found that imported fire ants were virtually the only ants exploiting the food.
In the early 1980's, I became responsible for the Brackenridge Field Laboratory of the University of Texas -- 90 acres in Austin -- which at the time harbored over 50 ant species. 
A year later, imported fire ants invaded the field station. As a project, a student began mapping the invasion. We expected to see scattered hot spots among the native species where winged queens came in and set up shop.
But, instead, we saw a solid front of fire ants spread over the area like a tank invasion, replacing the native system. This observation led to the question, Why doesn't the native fire ant do this? Which ultimately led to research comparing the native fire ants with the non-native ones, and an interest in how the imported fire ant gets along in Brazil.

Q. Did you go to Brazil to see how fire ants get along there?

A. Yes. In Brazil, it wasn't easy to find fire ant mounds. Plus, if you kicked a mound there, lots of tiny flies -- phorid flies -- showed up to attack the ants.
So in 1994, we asked the question, What happens if you put some food on the ground in Brazil -- who gets it? The answer is, It's not fire ants, if phorid flies show up to attack them.
Then, with Brazilian colleagues, we did the experiment of putting out food, then removing the phorid flies as they arrived; fire ants would dominate the food as they do in in Texas. And if you didn't remove the flies, other native Brazilian ants usually won.
That got us thinking, What might happen if we introduced Brazilian phorid flies in Texas? Would that impose the same stress on the imported ants here and make them less of a pest?

Q. Will just one species of the phorid flies solve the imported fire ant problem in North America?

A. We'll probably need a suite of them to do the job. We saw in South America there were about 15 to 16 species of these flies that may be appropriate to our problem here.
They all disrupt the behavior of those worker fire ants responsible for bringing food and protecting the colony. Late in '94, we got permission from the U.S. Department of Agriculture to bring some of the flies back, and we started testing to see which of them would discriminate between the native and the imported fire ants.
We have been mass-rearing one phorid species that we've been releasing in Texas. But since 1996, we've had four years of very harsh drought here in Texas. Even the fire ants have suffered, making life doubly difficult for the fly that depends entirely on its host ant.
Nevertheless, phorid populations are established in the field in several Texas locations.
It's going to take a break from drought for them to build up. The U.S.D.A. is releasing the same phorid in Florida and the Southeast, and that looks promising -- it's spreading. But we've just released one species. Locally in Brazil, there are five, six species of flies attacking fire ants. So I don't think this one species is the ticket.

Q. Are you worried about turning another foreign creature loose in the North American environment? Things could go wrong.

A. One of the nightmares is that you might introduce something that will create more problems than you're going to solve, which has happened in some situations and has given the field of biological control some black eyes.
The thing about fire ants is that they are moving across the country and knocking out a lot of native species. They are a big mortality factor for endangered birds around here. So biological control with phorid flies seems worth trying, given that the greatest risk of these specialized flies might be that they will attack native fire ants.
But those local ants are going extinct anyway as the imported ones move in.

Q. Did you ever see "Them," the 1954 Warner Brothers science fiction thriller? In it, giant ants, mutated by nuclear testing, take over New Mexico and come to their final end in the sewers of Los Angeles. The film closes with the suggestion that there may be further insect horrors lurking out there. Were they thinking of imported red fire ants?

A. (Laughing.) Well, I saw that as a kid. Those ants were 10 feet tall, weren't they? I guess that's how a fire ant invasion looks to small animals in the ecosystem. But in terms of their menace to humans -- let's not exaggerate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Lawrence E. Gilbert says red imported fire ants can "consume or outcompete many organisms," and he is studying ways to combat them. (George Brainard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); MAMMALS (78%); ANIMALS (78%); BIRDS (72%); COASTAL AREAS (67%) ANTS; FLIES; FIRE ANTS; PESTICIDES AND PESTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (84%)

PERSON: DREIFUS, CLAUDIA; GILBERT, LAWRENCE E (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (65%) TEXAS, USA (95%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (91%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



290 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: Protect Sharks? Attacks Fuel Old Argument 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
To hear commercial fishermen tell it, fishing curbs are leaving sharks free to prey on bathers.
 Scientists see things another way. They now wonder if overfishing of prized shark species is letting unwanted killers like bull sharks, implicated in several recent attacks, thrive as never before. 
 Neither theory rules out the other. If both are right, it is possible that federal rules and commercial fishing practices are interacting in unexpected ways to create new dangers in coastal waters. Scientists and federal agencies are preparing to study the potential risk. 
Among other things, the new debate highlights a longstanding dilemma of marine science: the possibility that changes in one part of an ecosystem can have profound, often unanticipated effects elsewhere.
The main restrictions on shark fishing date from 1993, when the federal government began an aggressive program to protect dwindling Atlantic populations from commercial and recreational fishermen. It set stiff quotas and ruled out catches altogether for 19 species, including the great white, a ruthless predator often blamed in human attacks.
But after sharks killed a 10-year-old boy in Virginia Beach and a 28-year-old man in North Carolina over Labor Day weekend, fishing groups have renewed their war against the restrictions, arguing that myopic state and federal officials are fostering the attacks.
"They've set up a bait-fish preserve and a sanctuary for sharks," said Bob Jones, executive director of the Southeastern Fisheries Association, an advocacy group for commercial fishermen based in Tallahassee, Fla. "I've never been as frightened of going in the water as I am now."
Most marine biologists dismiss such fears. Attacks are down in number globally this year, they say, and rising human populations account for most historical increases. They add that sharks are still so overfished that many populations are in danger of collapse or facing extinction.
"Fishermen are playing upon public fear to make an economic argument," said Sonja V. Fordhman, a shark fisheries expert at the Ocean Conservancy, a private group in Washington.
If anyone is to blame, the scientists say, it may be the commercial fishermen who may be altering things for the worse.
Heavy fishing of commercially attractive shark species like sandbars and blacktips, marine biologists argue, could have the unintended side effect of helping bull sharks, which are cited in many attacks. In theory, declines of prized species could free ocean resources for killers like bulls, expanding their ranks.
"Sharks are key parts of ocean ecology," said Dr. Ellen K. Pikitch, a shark expert at the Wildlife Conservation Society, based at the Bronx Zoo. "If you mess around with some parts, you're going to have consequences in others."
Dr. Robert E. Hueter, director of the Center for Shark Research at the Mote Marine Laboratory in Sarasota, Fla., agreed, saying he worried that fishery disruptions could endanger people. 
"The fishery has severely depleted the sandbar, but not the bull," he said. "Pound for pound, the bull is the most aggressive. The question is whether we have been culling our populations, removing the less aggressive for the most."
Last year, bull sharks were suspected of killing a man in shallow waters near St. Petersburg, Fla., and attacking a swimmer in Gulf Shores, Ala., tearing off his arm. This July at a beach in Pensacola, Fla., a bull attacked an 8-year-old boy, severing his arm before the boy's uncle dragged him to shore. Scientists also suspect bull sharks in the recent attacks that killed the boy in Virginia and the man in North Carolina.
Bull sharks worry scientists because they are especially vicious. Unlike some sharks that bite humans by mistake and quickly let go, bulls target people as food. And unlike most other sharks, they thrive in fresh and brackish water, swimming into rivers, shallows and coastal estuaries -- closer to people.
Alarms are also ringing because some of the attacks this summer occurred along the Gulf Coast and mid-Atlantic states, places usually at relatively low risk of shark attack.
William Hogarth, director of the National Marine Fisheries Service, which assesses fish stocks and regulates fishermen, said his agency was concerned about the strikes. "There's a lot of possible factors at work that we have to look into," he said.
He noted, though, that large coastal sharks in Atlantic waters were still declining in number or stabilizing overall at levels only a quarter to a half of what they were as recently as the 1970's. The populations still vulnerable to collapse, experts said, include whites, duskies and hammerheads.
Dr. Pikitch, of the Wildlife Conservation Society, and Dr. Hueter, of the Mote Marine Laboratory, have teamed up to study whether fishery upsets are favoring bulls around Florida, whose beaches and waterways have long seen the greatest number of shark attacks on people. There were 37 attacks last year, a record. So far this year there have been 29 attacks in Florida.
Experts agree that the main factor behind the rising number of assaults is the growing human populations and the increasing use of beaches and coastal areas for swimming and water sports, including surfing.
Dr. George H. Burgess, a shark biologist at the University of Florida, has analyzed how Florida's skyrocketing human population during the 20th century, to 16 million people, closely matches rising shark attack rates. From a low of two to five attacks in Florida per decade, assaults soared to 180 in the 1990's.
At the same time, the global market for some sharks has exploded, driven by a developing taste for shark steaks and Asia's love of shark-fin soup. Experts say fins can bring fishermen $100 a pound or more.
"We saw immediate reductions in the numbers of sharks on the East Coast," said Dr. Carl Safina, author of "Song for the Blue Ocean," a 1997 book about global fisheries. "By the early 90's, they were down 80 to 90 percent."
Florida took the lead in establishing curbs. In 1992, it set a limit of one shark per person, or two per boat, for shark fishermen in state waters. These areas extend three miles out on the state's Atlantic side and nine miles on the Gulf side.
Alarmed at dwindling stocks, the federal government in 1993 imposed rules on the whole East Coast shark fishery, cutting the take in half, to 8.5 million pounds in 1999 from an estimated 17.2 million pounds in 1989. Last year, it expanded the restrictions to put 19 species off limits entirely, including whites, sand tigers and longfin makos.
Infuriated, commercial fishermen have sued successfully to stop further cuts, and ocean conservationists have countersued, unsuccessfully so far, to let federal cutbacks proceed.
In the glare of publicity over recent shark attacks, the fishermen gained an ally in Sean Paige, a fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute. Last month in an article titled "The Jaws of Government" in The National Review Online, he argued that state and federal curbs had inadvertently created a sanctuary for deadly predators in coastal waters.
Although many scientists have publicly questioned that theory, a few have voiced support. "In my opinion," said Dr. Michael L. Parrack, a research biologist in Miami for the National Marine Fisheries Service, "a refuge has been recently created off the east coast of Florida and large fish are stacking up, sharks included."
The alternative theory of marine biologists points a finger at the commercial fisherman, arguing that heavy fishing of sandbars and blacktips, the top market sharks, could be having unforeseen repercussions in ocean ecology that favor bulls, which most fishermen scorn. 
The problem is, neither side can now produce good data to back its case. It is notoriously difficult to measure changes in fish populations over time, much less the subtleties of their interactions with other species and the complex cycles of marine food chains. So scientists acknowledge that proving their overfishing theory will take hard work.
Dr. Pikitch, of the Wildlife Conservation Society, said that adult sandbars might feed on young bulls and that sandbar declines might thus have the "unintended consequence" of benefiting bulls.
Dr. Hueter said blacktips overlapped bulls ecologically because both were comfortable in warm, shallow waters. Young bulls, he said, may gain from blacktip declines by having less competition for prey fish like mullet, ladyfish and sea trout. He said he was searching for historical records on bull populations, looking for an upturn. Studies of current populations also help, he said.
Helping drive the inquiry, Dr. Hueter said, is anecdotal information on rising numbers of bulls. Tarpon fishermen, he said, are "experiencing a tremendous loss of fish because the bulls are attacking."
Russell H. Hudson, a spokesman for the commercial shark industry, belittled the bull theory. "It's a false argument," he said. "These academics don't know doodah and want to study this stuff forever. They're anti-commercial and pro getting all these federal grants."
Dr. Burgess of the University of Florida, who runs a database known as the International Shark Attack File, said his information suggested that identifiable bull attacks on people during the 1990's had risen annually from one to three. But he cautioned that such small numbers were statistically insignificant and that only further study could establish any real trend.
Jack Musick, head of shark research for the State of Virginia, said the Labor Day killings in Virginia Beach and North Carolina both appeared to be the work of bulls. But he, too, urged caution about the idea that commercial hunting was unintentionally letting the killers thrive.
"It may be that populations of bulls are not as depressed as much as other sharks," he said. "That doesn't mean they've exploded."
Dr. Safina, founder of the Living Oceans marine conservation program of the National Audubon Society, said the bull thesis was plausible and testable. But even if true, he added, any trend in attacks paled in comparison with the tens of thousands of deaths every year from car accidents and handguns.
When it comes to shark attacks, he said, "Your chances of being bitten are still about one in a million -- it's still very much a freak accident."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heavy fishing of some shark species could unintentionally aid others, like bull sharks, above, which are implicated in several attacks. (James Watt/Animals Animals)(pg. F1) Chart: "The Ups and Downs of Shark Attacks"Recent shark attacks have intensified debate about the level of risk they pose to people. Graph shows the total shark attacks worldwide (Outside U.S.), the United States (Outside Florida), and in Florida since 1990. (Source: Florida Museum of Natural History)(pg. F1) Chart: "Catches and Their Consequences"Some scientists say heavy fishing of shark species like sandbars and blacktips could have the unintended side effect of benefiting bull sharks, which have been implicated in many attacks. BULL SHARKTotal pounds landed in the Atlantic Ocean in 1999: 25,426Maximum known size: 11 feet SANDBAR SHARKTotal pounds landed in the Atlantic Ocean in 1999: 1,299,987Maximum known size: 7.5 feet BLACKTIP SHARKTotal pounds landed in the Atlantic Ocean in 1999: 1,286,979Maximum known size: 8 feet (Sources: Florida Museum of Natural History; "The Shark Alamanac," by Thomas B. Allen)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHES (91%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); OCEANS (89%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); FISHERIES (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); FISHING LAW (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); FINFISH FISHING (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SPORT FISHING (73%); US LABOR DAY (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SHARKS; FISHING, COMMERCIAL 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J 

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



291 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Times Names Andrew Rosenthal As Assistant Managing Editor 

 BODY:
The appointment of Andrew Rosenthal as an assistant managing editor of The New York Times was announced yesterday by Howell Raines, the executive editor. Mr. Rosenthal, who was the paper's foreign editor, will coordinate daily coverage by the paper's principal news desks.
 Roger Cohen, a foreign correspondent who moved into editing last month as Mr. Rosenthal's deputy, will now head the foreign desk as acting editor, Mr. Raines said. 
 Mr. Rosenthal, 45, joined The Times in 1987 from The Associated Press, where he had been a Denver correspondent, a foreign desk editor in New York and eventually Moscow bureau chief. 
At The Times, he began as a Washington correspondent covering the political role of media and advertising and then the 1988 presidential campaign of Michael S. Dukakis. He later covered the Pentagon and the White House. He became Washington editor in 1992, directing coverage of the 1994 and 1996 elections, and foreign editor in 1997. 
A graduate of the University of Denver, Mr. Rosenthal was born in New Delhi, when his father, A. M. Rosenthal -- later executive editor of The Times -- was bureau chief there. 
Mr. Cohen, 46, joined The Times in 1990 as a reporter and became a foreign correspondent in 1991. He has served as European economic correspondent, Balkan bureau chief during the Bosnian war, a Paris correspondent and, most recently, chief Berlin correspondent. 
Earlier, Mr. Cohen reported for The Wall Street Journal from Rome, Beirut, Miami and Rio de Janeiro. He has also worked for Reuters as a correspondent in Brussels and Rome.
A graduate of Oxford University, Mr. Cohen is the author of "Hearts Grown Brutal: Sagas of Sarajevo," an account of the violent break-up of Yugoslavia, and the co-author of "In the Eye of the Storm," a biography of Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew Rosenthal (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; ROSENTHAL, A M; COHEN, ROGER; RAINES, HOWELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (72%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (54%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDIA (74%); BELGIUM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



292 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Review/Fashion; 
Nilsson, New at Blass, Shows Talent, Not Ego

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE 

 BODY:
For the most part, fashion isn't the place to turn for life lessons a great-grandmother could impart -- you will find no one handing out the manual on the virtues of humility, civility or largesse. But every now and then from the world of the mink purse some wisdom manages to leak. Fashion is just the place to learn, or be reminded, that those in possession of the most prodigious egos are generally those in possession of the fewest actual gifts. The designers who truly merit the name genius, the Hussein Chalayans, say, are never the ones who turn up in movie cameos or channeling George Clooney in ads for Absolut.
 Judging from how hesitantly he approached the runway at the finale of his first show for Bill Blass yesterday, it seems that Lars Nilsson belongs to the school of the unassuming. Just before his quietly exquisite 52 looks were presented at the Celeste Bartos Forum of the New York Public Library, a socialite seated in the front row leaned over to a neighbor and remarked, "You know, he's the only guy in fashion whose modesty is disproportionate to his talent." 
 Mr. Nilsson is in fact so skilled with a needle and thread that few would fault him if he chose to cultivate a greater sense of self-regard. A native of Orebro, a small city in Sweden, Mr. Nilsson, 35, studied sewing and patternmaking in Stockholm before moving to Paris in 1986 to study at the Ecole de la Chambre Syndicale de la Couture. That training was followed by a decade more in the haute couture ateliers of Christian Lacroix and Dior. Two years ago, he moved to New York to work as a design director at Ralph Lauren.
The career path could not have been better laid out for steering the ship at Blass. What Mr. Nilsson clearly absorbed from the universe of the $50,000 suit is the appeal of tailoring so trenchant and precise that the garments themselves look as though they could cut through a roll of cloth. 
This was exactly the effect rendered when Mr. Nilsson sent a series of wide-leg pinstriped pantsuits down the runway, which seemed to elongate the towering models wearing them into ambulating skyscrapers.
Apparently not a scene maker, Mr. Nilsson, a guy who looks like a physicist in his own well-fitting suit, hasn't spent all that much time in New York, but he has figured out that it isn't Los Angeles. His embellishments appeared economical even if in some instances the embroidery came from Lesage. He turned out evening dresses and ball skirts in pinstriped cotton, one featuring back pockets that called to mind a Claire McCardell kitchen dress. Here we were not looking at what Angelina Jolie might call in for the next Golden Globe Awards.
Mr. Nilsson's clothes suggest that he isn't all that interested in dressing stars or trophy girlfriends with pounds of pave diamonds. Ostensibly, conventional fashion wisdom has it, Carolina Herrera is also too grand for such slumming. But her show yesterday left one wondering just what kind of well-bred Vassar girl at the intersection of youth and middle age was going to sprint over strollers up Madison Avenue to get ahold of tight pants with embroidery blossoming from the crotch.
The real problem with Ms. Herrera's show was evening gowns that gaped, bunched, constricted or in some other way didn't quite manage the proper hug. One exception came in the form of a circle-neck beaded minidress that looked as though it could flatter women who don't look like Sarah Jessica Parker. But when a crepe gown came down the runway on the person of Mini Anden, leaving her backside looking considerably larger than the microscopic reality, one simply left wondering what would happen when it met the body of a fun-loving 36-year-old who missed yoga last week. It would go back on the rack. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A draped Grecian-style evening gown by Lars Nilsson, in his first show for Bill Blass.; A floral silk blouse with tulle skirt by Lars Nilsson for Bill Blass.; An asymmetric wrap skirt with a raised cap-sleeve blouse from Carolina Herrera.; A short beaded scoop-neck dress from Carolina Herrera. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); HAUTE COUTURE (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%) APPAREL; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: BLASS, BILL, LTD 

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (58%); ANGELINA JOLIE (54%); GEORGE CLOONEY (54%) BELLAFANTE, GINIA; NILSSON, LARS 

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (69%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SWEDEN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



293 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Economists Lower Forecasts But Do Not Expect a Recession 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Business economists lowered their forecasts for growth for 2001 and 2002 but most say the economy will not slide into recession and should start recovering by the end of the year, a survey showed yesterday.
 A separate report from the Federal Reserve showed that the level of consumer credit outstanding unexpectedly held steady in July after a drop the month before, which had fanned worries that consumers were beginning to rein in their purchases. 
 A panel of 31 professional forecasters sponsored by the National Association for Business Economics cut expectations for business investment and profits, but, highlighting the resilience of consumers, raised 2001 estimates for consumer spending. 
The survey was conducted in the last two weeks of August, before last week's report of a surprising jump in unemployment. The government reported last week that the jobless rate surged to 4.9 percent in August, its highest rate in four years, raising concern that the sharp increase might deal a crushing blow to consumers, whose spending has held up the anemic economy.
The association's panel cut its median forecast for real gross domestic product growth year to year to 1.6 percent from 2 percent in the May forecast. 
The economy slowed to its softest pace in eight years in the second quarter when G.D.P. eased to an annual growth rate of 0.2 percent, down from 5.7 percent growth in the period a year earlier.
The panelists also lowered their estimates for 2002 G.D.P. growth to 2.7 percent, down from the median 3.1 percent growth forecast in May.
The pessimism was driven by the struggles occurring in the business sector, where investment is forecast to contract 2 percent in 2001, a sharp contrast to earlier forecasts of 2.4 percent growth. In 2002, business investment is now expected to grow a modest 1 percent, well below previous estimates for an increase of 4.9 percent.
After-tax corporate profits are now expected to contract 12 percent in 2001 compared with previous estimates of a 3.5 percent decrease. Profits are expected to rise 5 percent next year, compared with earlier expectations of a 6 percent increase.
But the association sounded optimistic about consumption, which makes up two-thirds of the economy. Real consumption expenditures are expected to grow 3 percent in 2001, compared with the 2.7 percent gain estimated earlier. The association still expects 2002 consumption growth of 2.9 percent. 
The Fed report said credit outstanding was virtually unchanged at a seasonally adjusted $1.589 trillion in July. 

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Consumer Borrowing in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, since Feb., 2000. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) NATIONAL ASSN FOR BUSINESS ECONOMICS; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



294 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
A Surprisingly Steady Day for the Major U.S. Markets

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The stock market was a surprise yesterday, rallying from early losses to finish the day little changed.
 The steady performance -- instead of the feared continuation of the sharp declines at the end of last week -- was enough to help European stock markets rebound from their early losses. And longer-term bond prices fell and yields rose as investors saw stocks hold the line and, maybe, thought that the pessimism about the economic outlook might be a little overdone. 
 "Maybe people thought there would be more of a follow-through on equities, and we didn't get it," said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Salomon Smith Barney. "The worst hasn't happened yet." 
The Dow Jones industrial average, which plunged 3.5 percent last week, was off just 0.34 point yesterday, after beginning the day down as much as 112 points. It ended the day at 9,605.51.
The Nasdaq composite index rose 7.68 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,695.38, after falling almost 18 points in the morning. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks climbed 6.76 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,092.54, after dropping more than 12 points at the opening of trading. On Friday, the S.& P. 500 became the first major stock index to fall below the lows reached this spring.
The Financial Times stock index in London was off 0.7 percent after rebounding from a 3.4 percent decline before stocks on Wall Street began their own about-face. The CAC 40 index in Paris was also down 0.7 percent, after falling 3.7 percent earlier. And the DAX index in Frankfurt was down 1.3 percent, after coming back from a 4.3 percent decline.
In the American bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note fell 15/32, to 10 18/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 4.84 percent, from 4.78 percent Friday. The yield on the Treasury's two-year note, which had plunged to a record low of 3.49 percent Friday, was unchanged.
The talk from Washington over the weekend of new tax cuts to stimulate the economy may have made some investors worry more about the government surplus shrinking even further and added some to the selling pressure yesterday, analysts said.
But the data that sent the pessimism barometer higher last week was the report Thursday that the nonmanufacturing index of the National Association of Purchasing Management had fallen sharply, indicating that this sector was beginning to feel the brunt of the economic slowdown. That was followed Friday by the news that the unemployment rate in August jumped to 4.9 percent, from 4.5 percent in July. Analysts were expecting that the unemployment rate would just inch up to 4.6 percent.
But Louis Crandall, chief economist at R. H. Wrightson & Associates, said that while the job data got the big headline, the report earlier last week that the purchasing manager's manufacturing index had shot sharply higher was more important. The manufacturing sector, he said in his report to clients this week, is the one that has dragged the economy down and the new data suggests "that the worst is past for much of the factory sector."
On the New York Stock Exchange, the trading volume was a little above average at 1.28 billion. Eastman Kodak, down $1.94, to $43.23; Boeing, off $1.72, to $43.46;, and Alcoa, down $1.65, to $33.80, led the Dow lower. But the declines were all but offset by jumps in other Dow stocks, including SBC Communications, up $2.43, to $43.43; Microsoft, up $2.18, to $57.58; and Merck & Company, up $1.80, to $66.10. The Nasdaq was led higher by Microsoft; Qualcomm, up $1.36, to $50.54; and Dell Computer, up $1.02, to $22.57.
Christine A. Callies, the chief United States investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, said she believed that this sell-off was the "final capitulation" of stocks before they turn around. "I hope today means that people came back from vacation and are taking a more dispassionate view of what is in the economic data," she said. "Because I think the economy is turning."
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 3-month and 6-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.19698.423High Rate3.1803.120Investment Rate3.2513.213Low Rate3.14%3.04%Median Rate3.16%3.10%Total applied $33for,300,167$32,031,948$18Accepted,399,522$16,526,938$1Noncompetitive,393,963$1,428,328

Both issues are dated Sept. 13, 2001. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 13, 2001, and the six-month bills mature on March 14, 2002.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills since May. (Source: The Bond Buyer) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



295 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Tunnel Vision; 
Plumbing a City's Curiosities in the Name of Art

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Like most New Yorkers, Jerome Fortin goes to work on the subway.
 The difference is that from day to day, Mr. Fortin never quite knows which subway line he will ride. Or even which stop might take him closest to his job. 
 One day, it could be the F to Coney Island, where his mission is to track down elusive metallic ice-cream cup lids. (No luck.) Another day, it could be the M to Chinatown to hunt for red plastic bags. (No luck again.) Or the No. 1 to Greenwich Village for phone books. (Jackpot.) Or maybe the L to Williamsburg, where he went one day just to wander, but ended up finding another jackpot: a bin full of leather doodads discarded by a leather belt factory. "They were shaped like stars and hearts," he said.
"It was, to me," he added, "like a treasure."
Mr. Fortin, 29, is not hearing voices that tell him to go find these things. He is not a strange kind of thief or a recycling fanatic. He is not even in waste management, exactly, though that could be one way of describing what he does.
He is an artist from Montreal who moved to New York temporarily at the end of July to work on a project that will appear as part of "Quebec New York 2001," a huge exhibit of the province's culture taking place around New York City beginning this Thursday and continuing through Oct. 7. (Mr. Fortin's art will be on display at the World Financial Center Courtyard Gallery beginning this Friday.)
While he is an artist by profession, what Mr. Fortin has become over the last months is more of a professional subway rider. There are other in the city: motormen, conductors, battery salesmen, buskers, police officers and homeless people, all of whom must ride the subway for their livelihoods.
But Mr. Fortin (pronounced for-TAN) may be one of the only professionals who rides for art.
His sculptures are based around the old European concept of the Wunderkammer, or cabinet of curiosities, a collection of objects, both exotic and mundane, selected according to the tastes and fortunes of their owners, and often cited as a forerunner of modern museums.
But where a 16th-century cabinet might have contained a stuffed iguana next to a Chinese water clock, Mr. Fortin's objects are a little more urban. Matchbooks, cigarette butts, wine corks, beer bottle caps, motor oil jugs, phone books -- and yes, if he could get someone to give him a few dozen, those ubiquitous red Chinatown shopping bags.
He takes these decidedly worthless objects and, spending long days and nights in his studio in Brooklyn, he makes them into objects that appear to be things of great worth. Phone books are made into origami. Bottle caps and MetroCards are made into rings. Plastic oil jugs are sliced and arranged on a board like an Op Art painting.
For the show, all of these painstakingly transformed objects will be stacked on the kind of portable table that street vendors use to sell incense and handbags.
"The more I work until the opening, the more high it will be," said Mr. Fortin, whose French-accented English is good but also highly creative. "I would like to have something very high because New York is very high. But I am a human and I must sleep, you know."
He chose the subway, he said, mostly for artistic reasons -- to get to know the city better, to feel its texture. But the practical reasons were also persuasive: he could not afford to keep a car here and, frankly, probably would have been too scared to drive one anyway.
So he has come to know and even love what can be experienced for the price of a MetroCard. "There was one time a family was making some break dance in the subway," he recalled. "I think this is crazy. There are also the other people who are making a show, and they do not even know it."
While making the art is difficult (Mr. Fortin has developed repetitive stress pains from folding the phone books), finding the raw material in New York is often more of a chore than he thought it would be.
Restaurants have balked at giving him paper matchbooks, perhaps a true sign of how bad the economy has become. Chinese fish-shop owners have refused to give him plastic bags. In Coney Island, he finally found a nice Nathan's employee who sneaked him a bag of plastic French-fry forks when her boss was not looking. "That was a nice meeting," he said. "Sometimes, it is not so nice. Sometimes it is hard."
The other day was no exception. He took the C train to Times Square to find some of the purple garbage bags used by the Times Square Business Improvement District, only to learn that they have, improbably, become hot tourist items.
"Can't let you have one," said James Avery, who works for the district. "I could get fired."
But then, perhaps warming to art, he led Mr. Fortin to an office, where a supervisor let him have five bags.
Jackpot.
"Today," he said, smiling broadly, "is the day of generosity."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerome Fortin, an artist, scours the city for materials like ice-cream cup lids and phone books for his work. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); SCULPTURE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (75%); MISC APPAREL & ACCESSORIES MFG (74%); STREET ART (71%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (70%); EXHIBITIONS (69%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (66%); PERSONAL LEATHER GOODS MFG (54%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) ART; QUEBEC NEW YORK 2001 (FESTIVAL); TRANSIT SYSTEMS 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY; FORTAN, JEROME 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



296 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Candidate Expands the Assault on Spending Limits 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
It can be difficult enough for first-time candidates, informing voters who they are and what they stand for. Here in Albuquerque, the challenge for some is compounded by an unusual city charter statute that limits campaign spending on local elections.
 But as one of the seven mayoral candidates in a nonpartisan election next month, Rick Homans has won an early battle to remove the limits in a case that could reach the United States Supreme Court as the next big test of campaign spending as a protected form of free speech. 
 "I've made a very strong public commitment to ride this through," Mr. Homans said today in an interview. "It is not only an important policy issue at the local level, it is an important policy issue at the national level, and for me, a rare opportunity to be involved in the debate." 
With three weeks left in the race, Mr. Homans, 45, a businessman and political independent, is trailing the leaders. Three recent polls all show a pair of Democrats -- Martin Chavez, a former Albuquerque mayor, and Bob Schwartz, a former district attorney -- holding modest leads over a field that also includes Mayor Jim Baca, a Democrat seeking a second four-year term.
From Mr. Homans's perspective, his lagging behind was easy to explain. Fighting for news media and voter attention against better-known opponents, he said he had quickly learned that he could not adequately compete without spending more money to get his name and message before city voters.
The city charter allows mayoral candidates to spend up to twice the mayor's salary, for a current cap of $174,720. Mr. Homans viewed that as far too little "to even the playing field." So he took the matter into Federal District Court here, where Judge Martha A. Vazquez upheld the city's right to impose the spending limits by denying Mr. Homans an injunction against them. 
But last Thursday, an appeals court in Denver effectively overturned Judge Vazquez's decision, ruling that the city's spending limits violated the candidate's "core First Amendment right of political expression," a view that echoed the Supreme Court's decision in a 1976 case, Buckley v. Valeo, that equated campaign spending with free speech. The appellate ruling also served to invite the city and Mr. Homans back to the district court for a trial on the merits of his argument.
If Mr. Homans does return, legal experts say, his case has a strong chance to become the next vehicle for the Supreme Court to reconsider the scope of campaign spending limits because the 1976 ruling involved only limits for Congressional campaigns.
The court has not been asked to look at spending limits, for example, at the local level but now may be inclined to do so with other mayoral races featuring candidates spending huge amounts of money, like Richard J. Riordan, who spent $6 million in 1993 to become mayor of Los Angeles, and Michael R. Bloomberg, who has spent more than $20 million in the current New York City mayor's race.
"We think the Homans case is a very likely candidate to reach the Supreme Court," said Brenda Wright, a lawyer with the National Voting Rights Institute, a Boston organization that works to reduce the role of money in politics. "Now we have to see what happens where spending limits have been in place for 27 years. A record like that isn't available anywhere else."
Ms. Wright said while places had voluntary spending limits, Albuquerque was the only major city with mandatory standards. 
The potential for Albuquerque as a test case for the Supreme Court arises from evidence that suggests the spending limits have had an energizing effect on the city's mayoral elections. The lower court's ruling embraced a study by Anthony Gierzynski, a political scientist at the University of Vermont, who found that "democracy in Albuquerque is actually as healthy, if not healthier than in other cities due in part to Albuquerque's campaign finance regulations."
Mr. Gierzynski showed that with limits in place, a higher percentage of people voted over the years, compared with the results in cities of comparable size with no spending caps.
As a rationale for his appeal, Mr. Homans said spending limits worked to the detriment of lesser-known candidates. With limited exposure in seven-way debates, he said, he needed to generate enough coverage to raise his profile. "And that," he said, "takes money."
Mr. Homans has far surpassed his opponents, spending $487,000, more than twice his nearest competition, Mr. Baca, who has spent $241,000, according to spending reports filed last week. Mr. Chavez has spent $105,000 and Mr. Schwartz $20,000.
Even the attention he had generated in the news, Mr. Homans said, failed to help raise the issues most important to him, economic development and public safety.
"We looked through the clips of stories about my campaign," he said with a laugh. "About 95 percent of them dealt with the spending caps."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rick Homans, an Albuquerque mayoral candidate, center, with his wife, Jan, greeted Anthony Magi, left, on Friday. Mr. Homans says city law makes it hard for little-known candidates like him to be elected. (Kitty Clark Fritz/The Albuquerque Journal) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); APPEALS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (76%); INJUNCTIONS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; MAYORS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: VALEO SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

TICKER: FR (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; HOMANS, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (95%) NEW MEXICO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) ALBUQUERQUE (NM)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



297 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1870 words

HEADLINE: The New Home Economics; 
All-Important Housing Market Softens at the Top End

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

DATELINE: LONGMONT, Colo. 

 BODY:
In a neighborhood on one side of Clover Basin Drive, here in this Denver suburb, nearly all the new homes are taken. Closely bunched production houses on small lots, they have drawn buyers like Ryan Bonino, a 25-year-old salesman of luxury cars, who was gratified to find something affordable in one of the nation's hottest markets. In April, flush with a $44,000 profit from selling his first house here after just a year, Mr. Bonino snapped up a two-story, three-bedroom frame home for $268,000.
 But in the neighborhood just across the street, custom-built $600,000 and $800,000 homes, with three-car garages, granite countertops and sprawling lawns, remain unsold. 
 Across this region, inventories of unsold high-end houses are rising and some sellers are having to trim their asking prices. "You can actually negotiate prices in today's market, and it hasn't been that way in five to seven years," said Stuart Wright, a real estate broker in nearby Boulder. 
In this and many other areas around the nation, prices for the most expensive homes are softening after a long run, while demand for more moderately priced housing remains firm.
Seldom has so much ridden on which way the housing market turns. As layoffs mount and businesses cut back on investment and the stock market falters, escalating home prices and continued homebuilding have become a central bulwark against recession.
"The only thing holding up the economy is housing and consumer spending," said Eric S. Belsky, executive director of the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University. "If house price declines stay confined to the high end, that may not have serious negative consequences, but if they start filtering down to the middle class, that's likely to take a big toll."
Robust home values, up 26 percent nationally over the five years through June, have helped prop up wavering consumer confidence and supported the spending that has kept the economy barely growing.
The housing market draws its continuing strength from low mortgage rates, an expanding population, rising incomes and, in a lot of areas, anti-sprawl measures limiting land for new homes. But in many places, these pillars no longer fully support prices in the upper range.
In Seattle, the number of million-dollar homes still for sale has risen by half over the last year while listings of middle-priced homes have shrunk. In California, homes in affluent towns lost value in the second quarter while more modest areas posted strong gains. In Texas, the largest price increases this year have come from towns with moderate housing costs, like Longview, Abilene and Sherman.
Across metropolitan New York, median home prices rose 10.5 percent in the last year, and 5 percent in the second quarter, according to the National Association of Realtors. But in Manhattan, the average sales price of luxury co-op apartments -- defined as two to four bedrooms on Park Avenue, Fifth Avenue or Central Park West -- fell 25 percent in the second quarter, to $2.05 million, according to Douglas Elliman, the real estate brokerage firm.
In the 1990's, the most expensive homes, now costing $750,000 and up, appreciated the most in many regions, as the wealthiest Americans had their income gains compounded by their stock market profits. Now, as the stock market has reversed, so have the upper reaches of the housing market. Many well-off professionals and executives, especially, have been stripped of their huge gains on stock option packages and investments.
Layoffs -- and fears of greater job cuts -- have also had an impact. Around Denver, job cuts and falling stock prices at large employers in the struggling telecommunications industry -- like Level 3 Communications -- have helped cool the housing market. While the official numbers, which include some lower-priced homes, are not as extreme, Jack O'Connor, a Denver broker, calculates that the inventory of the most expensive homes here now stands at 27 months, quadruple the level a year ago.
But, by and large, the market for moderately priced houses remains healthy: median existing-home prices nationally rose 6.4 percent for the year ended in June, according to the National Association of Realtors. Housing starts during July rose 2.8 percent over their June level, to their highest in a year and a half, the Commerce Department reported.
The reasons for the divergence are illustrated here in metropolitan Denver, one of the prime growth areas of the 1990's. In the late 1980's, it suffered from a severe glut of homes at all prices. Today, it has the highest median home prices of any metropolitan area outside the two coasts, according to the association of realtors.
Low mortgage rates are part of the favorable equation, as they are elsewhere. Population growth, stronger than expected nationally in part because of immigration, has been especially strong around Denver. And over the last several years, Colorado residents have had some of the biggest personal income gains in the nation.
At the same time, attempts to limit growth have curtailed the supply of houses, as residents fight to avoid sprawling tract homes and malls. While slow-growth rules here are some of the most extreme, such measures have proliferated in many areas, leaving land for new homes in shorter supply.
In addition, many Colorado lenders and builders have remained cautious despite the sizzling market. The overbuilding of the 1980's that left large speculative housing developments standing unoccupied was burned into their memories.
All these factors are present nationwide in some measure, and they are likely to keep most of the housing market from backsliding much, even if the economy enters a full-blown recession, many economists say. While the pace is sure to slow, "I think the fundamentals are still there for healthy home price appreciation," said David Lereah, the chief economist at the National Association of Realtors. 
Nonetheless, the softening at the high end of the market, if it persists, could have widespread consequences as affluent homeowners, already hit by stock market losses, experience a drop in the value of their homes and the equity they own. That could further chill consumers' spirits, particularly among the big spenders who played such a critical role in the boom of the late 1990's.
"If consumer confidence drops, they'll stop spending, then the economy is going to tumble, and that's a big concern for me," said Jim Cobb, owner of Cornerstone Homes, a home builder in Longmont.
Steven Weiting, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, contends that the appreciation in home values is sure to cool, since turns in the stock market usually lead to changes in housing prices. But he calls a collapse unlikely, noting that overall inventories of unsold houses remain low.
In July, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, affirmed the importance of rising home values. "As home ownership rises and as the market value of homes continues to rise, even in a period when stock prices are falling," he said, "we're observing a rather remarkable employment of that so-called home equity wealth in all sorts of household decisions."
Recent housing market gains and continued home building contrast sharply with steep cutbacks in business investment. Such spending plunged 14.6 percent in the second quarter, slowing overall economic growth to the most sluggish pace in eight years, a mere 0.2 percent annual rate.
In past slowdowns, housing has tended to lead the economy's fall. But the character of the current slowdown has made this time different, said Robert Van Order, the chief economist at Freddie Mac. In the early 1980's, he said, efforts by the Federal Reserve chairman, Paul A. Volcker, to squeeze inflation out of the economy by pushing interest rates up sharply sent the cost of mortgages soaring, crippling housing sales. During the recession and housing slowdown in the early 1990's, much of the problem was related to the poor financial footing of banks and savings and loans.
But the latest slowdown is happening largely on what he called the "real" side of the economy -- including manufacturing and investment in plant and equipment -- rather than on the financial side.
"The financial system is in pretty good shape," Mr. Van Order said.
In Denver, these trends have played out in dramatic fashion. By the late 1980's, the real estate market here was so depressed that builders were faced with more than a year's inventory of unsold homes, a result of rampant overbuilding financed by savings and loans, and the collapse of energy prices, which pulled a crucial support from the local economy.
But since then the turnaround has been so sharp that in two affluent suburbs north of downtown, Boulder and Longmont, prices soared 147 percent in the decade that ended in March, according to federal data.
Part of such appreciation comes from soaring demand. During the 1990's, Colorado's population gained almost 31 percent, more than double the nation's. Around Denver, people flocked to live within view of the Front Range of the Rockies. And during the two years ended in March, personal incomes in Colorado jumped 20.4 percent, the most of any state, compared with 13.4 percent nationwide.
On the supply side, efforts to limit growth have made it difficult for builders to keep up. Sales of new homes in Boulder County, which includes Boulder and Longmont, fell 45 percent during the first half of the year, compared with the period in 2000, according to the Genesis Group, a local research firm. That decline, despite a 15 percent gain in average existing-home prices over the last year in this county, came primarily because of growth controls that limited the supply of new building lots, the study found.
"There's no doubt growth caps increase the cost of housing," said Leona Stoecker, the mayor of Longmont. "It's basic economics 101 -- when there's a shortage of something, prices increase." New housing approvals here commonly take three years, and impact fees to offset the cost of roads, sewers and other infrastructure can top $20,000 a home.
At the same time, the area's lenders and builders have been more restrained than during past booms, learning their lessons from the busts that invariably followed. "If builders learned anything from that, it was to build to demand," said Pat Fisher, owner of Gallery Homes in Lafayette, Colo.
Over all, inventories of existing homes in the six counties of the Denver metropolitan area rose at the end of the second quarter to 3.4 months, compared with 2 months a year before. Inventories of new homes rose to 1.6 months, up from 1.3 months at the end of the year. 
The outlook for the high-end market is less encouraging. Builders had expected a continued influx of high-technology employees, flush with stock options, said Tom Hoyt, chief executive of McStain Enterprises, one of the area's largest independent builders. But the opposite happened, he says: not only has the influx halted, but some of those here have been laid off, and still more have stood by helplessly as their options became worthless.
"All of a sudden you've got a two- or three-year supply," Mr. Hoyt said, "and I don't think we know yet what the effect is going to be."

GRAPHIC: HOME PRICE: $100,000-$150,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 1.0-2.6 HOME PRICE: 150,000-200,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 1.4-2.2 HOME PRICE: 200,000-250,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 2.2-2.8 HOME PRICE: 250,000-300,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 2.6-3.8 HOME PRICE: 300,000-350,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 2.9-4.0 HOME PRICE: 350,000-400,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 4.2-5.1 HOME PRICE: Over 400,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 5.0-7.8 (Source: The Genesis Group) Graph: "Rocky Mountain High"The median existing home price in the Denver area has been rising faster than in the United States over all. Graph tracks median existing home price in Denver and the U.S. since the 2nd quarter.(Source: Nat'l Assoc. of Realtors) Photos: An unsold home, right, in Longmont, Colo., where the market for high-priced homes has softened. Below, new homes go up in the Indian Peaks West development near Boulder. The market for moderately priced homes has held firm. (Inset, Essdras M. Suarez for The New York Times; above, Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Bruce Kreuger, right, a new homeowner, chats with a painter, Doug Gribble, about fencing for his new house in the Indian Peaks West development, built by McStain Enterprises, near Boulder, Colo. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. C15) Chart: "Slowing at the Top"The demand for the most expensive houses in the Denver area has started to soften, swelling the inventory of unsold existing homes on the market. But homes in the middle range are still selling at a healthy clip. April-June 2000 April-June 2001HOME PRICE: $100,000-$150,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 1.0-2.6 HOME PRICE: 150,000-200,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 1.4-2.2 HOME PRICE: 200,000-250,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 2.2-2.8 HOME PRICE: 250,000-300,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 2.6-3.8 HOME PRICE: 300,000-350,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 2.9-4.0 HOME PRICE: 350,000-400,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 4.2-5.1 HOME PRICE: Over 400,000NUMBER OF MONTHS' SUPPLY: 5.0-7.8 (Source: The Genesis Group) Graph: "Rocky Mountain High"The median existing home price in the Denver area has been rising faster than in the United States over all. Graph tracks median existing home price in Denver and the U.S. since the 2nd quarter.(Source: Nat'l Assoc. of Realtors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); BONDS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); INTEREST RATES (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; STOCKS AND BONDS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) DENVER (COLO)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



298 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1239 words

PERSON: Roger Starr 

HEADLINE: Roger Starr, New York Planning Official, Author and Editorial Writer, Is Dead at 83 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Roger Starr, an outspoken thinker on urban affairs who blended a lifetime of intellectual analysis with hands-on public service and whose often provocative vision of his native New York City influenced public policy debates for decades, died yesterday in Easton, Pa. He was 83.
 Mr. Starr, who lived in Stroudsburg, Pa., suffered a debilitating stroke at the end of May and died of pneumonia, his family said. . 
 Although Mr. Starr's beliefs were passionate, they were always a work in progress. From his Trotskyite campus days, he evolved into a New Dealer, dedicated to slum clearance, public housing and urban renewal in the Robert Moses mold. 
But he eventually became disillusioned by what he viewed as the flawed execution of good intentions. He adopted a neoconservative viewpoint, extolling the free market and a tough-love code of social morality and individual responsibility.
So great were his shifts, said his son, Adam, that there was no one who was really a protege.
Mr. Starr's career took many forms. He took over his father's barge company, ran construction ventures, headed a nonprofit housing group and served three mayors. He wrote several books, numerous articles and, for 15 years, editorials for The New York Times. He also taught, gave speeches and talked to anyone who would listen. Many did, including those who disagreed.
Although his voice was heard over a span of issues and years, Mr. Starr is most vividly remembered for his 1976 proposal for "planned shrinkage." Citing New York's declining population, lost jobs, social problems, high taxes and stressed services, he urged the city to abandon depressed areas like the South Bronx for future redevelopment.
A furor erupted. Mayor Abraham D. Beame, whom he was serving as Housing and Development administrator, disavowed the idea. City Council members called it "inhuman," "racist" and "genocidal." Protesters disrupted his public appearances.
"Although my phrase "planned shrinkage" will run a poor second to "benign neglect" in the unappreciated phrases derby," he wrote, "it will remain the most prominent label in the file of my government service." 
That was hardly the first or last time that his prescriptions provoked opposition.
A legendary feud began in the early 1960's when he criticized "The Death and Life of Great American Cities" by Jane Jacobs, who famously advocated human-scale neighborhoods. Eventually she won on her home court, rallying West Villagers to block high-rise plans of the type favored by Mr. Starr. Usually collegial with debating partners, he said, "What a dear, sweet character she isn't." She in turn called him foolish.
Later Mr. Starr praised smaller-scale housing. Recalling such shifts, his son, Adam, said, "Sometimes we would drive past a Mitchell-Lama project, and he would say, 'Mea culpa, mea culpa.' "
Mr. Starr objected that cowardly politicians refused to raise rents to cover the costs, causing debts, subsidies and neglect. Likewise, he championed public housing for the working poor but lamented that it was spoiled when the courts forced it to keep misbehaving tenants.
Condemning the very rent controls he once enforced, he said that they had turned housing into a disaster. "Controls are an easy mistake to make," he confessed. "I know, because as a student of housing and a public official, I helped make it." 
Mr. Starr moved to Stroudsburg about 15 years ago, nudged by the co-op conversion of his Manhattan apartment and drawn to the country by his fondness for fly fishing. He is survived by his wife, the former Jody Ward Green. Other survivors are two sons by his first wife, the late Manya Garbat, known as Fifi: Adam of Westport, Conn., and Barnaby of Baltimore; two stepchildren, Douglas Green of Manhattan and Patricia Shaheen of Saddle River, N.J.; five grandchildren; and three step-grandchildren.
Born in Manhattan on April 16, 1918, Roger Starr was ahead of his time at an early age, when his mother started his schooling at second grade. Later at Yale -- in the class of 1939 with William Bundy and Cyrus R. Vance -- he became chairman of the literary review. But as a Jew, he was shunned by fraternities. His sympathies shone in his short stories about Kristallnacht and bias against blacks.
In a publicized challenge to military segregation, Mr. Starr offered in 1941 to enlist in a black regiment. The Army declined. Later in the war, he worked in the Office of Strategic Services in Burma and China.
An aspiring writer, Mr. Starr worked at CBS News. But in 1945 he was called to take over his father's company, Frederick Starr Contracting, which barged construction material, and stayed till 1974. Branching out, he won city approval for new construction methods and produced new, lighter concrete and the first precast beams for city schools.
His housing and planning role blossomed from 1958 to 1973 when he was executive director of the Citizens' Housing and Planning Council, a civic group.
Drawn into government, he joined a housing panel advising Mayor Robert F. Wagner, was appointed chairman of the Rent Guidelines Board by Mayor John V. Lindsay, then served Mayor Beame full time from 1974 to 1976, as a fiscal crisis unfolded.
"You can't know the sheer joy of finally having your ideas understood and valued, of being recognized at last as an outstanding citizen and leader," Mr. Starr said. "The glow lasted for, oh, four or five days."
Budget cuts, mass layoffs and looming bankruptcy frustrated the man with expansive ideas. Still, Mr. Starr rescued jeopardized projects like Manhattan Plaza and won extensions for tax abatements for residential renovations and incentives for construction, programs that endure today.
In his incarnation at The Times, from 1977 to 1992, Mr. Starr's domain was recommending stands on local issues and candidates. "He was exceptionally well tailored and always courtly," said Jack Rosenthal, a former editorial page editor and now president of The New York Times Foundation. "People loved arguing with him. But no matter how heated, all was jolly afterward."
His writing plumbed issues ranging from nuclear power to his fly-fishing hobby to three-cushion billiards, betraying an intimacy with local pool halls that was acquired on lunchtime excursions.
Mr. Starr taught at City University, New York University, the New School and Pratt Institute. His books included "The Living End" (Coward, 1966), "Urban Choices" (Penguin, 1968), "Housing and the Money Market" (Basic Books, 1975), and "America's Housing Challenge" (Farrar, Straus, 1977).
Painting a bleak future in "The Rise and Fall of New York City" (Basic Books, 1985), he warned that New York might be destined to diminish until it disappeared as one of the world's great cities. He deplored the "decline in civility" and the perpetuation of welfare "in a special class that does not work, never heard of working and is not expected to work."
"Thus, in the subways, the two worlds of New York collide: the working world that seems normal, and the never-working world of the criminals and the utterly helpless," he wrote. "When they meet in the subway, it raises the possibility that the entire system will come, bit by bit, to a stop."
Instead of stopping or shrinking, the city bounced back with unplanned growth, revitalizing even the South Bronx. But its revival stemmed at least in part to progress on Mr. Starr's issues: reduced crime and welfare and the imported work ethic of new immigrants.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger Starr in the late 1970's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DEATHS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (67%); POPULATION DECLINE (64%); PNEUMONIA (56%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES 

STARR, ROGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



299 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Booty: More Smugglers Use Asia Route 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
The police in Batumi, a Black Sea port in Georgia, heard a rumor in July that someone wanted to sell several pounds of high-grade uranium for $100,000. The most tantalizing aspect of the tip was that one of the sellers was reportedly a Georgia Army officer.
 All sorts of scoundrels have tried nuclear smuggling in recent years. Many are amateurs; most of what they try to peddle proves useless for making bombs. 
 But the possible involvement of an army officer gave the Batumi case a measure of deadly seriousness, beyond its status as another example of how the smuggling of nuclear material has shifted to Central Asia. 
On the morning of July 20, the local antiterrorist squad burst into a small hotel room near the port, just outside the Turkish border. They arrested four men, including an army captain named Shota Geladze. 
On the floor of the room, in a glass jar wrapped in plastic, sat nearly four pounds of enriched uranium 235, according to Revaz Chantladze, one of the police officers. The quantity was less than is usually required for a small atomic bomb. 
Subsequent analysis yielded differing opinions. A Western diplomat said the uranium probably had no value for bomb-making, but Georgian officials called it the third seizure in two years of uranium with potential weapons use. 
The appearance of a relatively large quantity of uranium on the black market in Georgia underscored American concerns that such trafficking has shifted from Europe to the Caucasus, Central Asia and Turkey. 
Washington has responded by sending millions of dollars' worth of detection equipment to several countries in the region. The Americans are also providing training for border guards to learn to spot illegal shipments of nuclear material, and they helped to improve security at nuclear plants and airports.
The region is the gateway from Russia, which has huge stocks of nuclear material, to countries that are in the market for weapons material. Two of them, Iran and Iraq, are trying to develop nuclear weapons; a third, Pakistan, is expanding its nuclear arsenal.
Few smuggling incidents involve material that could be used to make bombs, and intelligence officials say they know of no successful attempt at smuggling weapons-grade material. But they concede that the scope of smuggling remains uncertain.
The rising number of incidents and the strong belief that only a fraction of shipments are intercepted have raised the level of anxiety here. The worries are heightened by the slackness of border controls and the economic instability that has left customs officers vulnerable to bribes.
"The nuclear material tends to come from Russia, but once it gets outside, the region is pretty wide open," Gary Milhollin, director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control in Washington, said during a trip to the region to brief customs officials on suspected buyers.
The International Atomic Energy Agency provided new figures on Friday showing that the number of confirmed cases of nuclear smuggling had fallen in the rest of the world but had risen in Turkey, the Caucasus and Central Asia.
Only four of the 104 cases from 1993 to 1995 occurred in this region, the agency reported, but from 1996 to last month, 16 of the 72 cases worldwide occurred in the region. The data covered only three weapons-related elements -- uranium, plutonium and thorium -- and only incidents confirmed by the international agency.
Intelligence authorities said smugglers are seeking new routes out of Russia and find their paths easier across the southern flank. "There has, since the mid-1990's, been a shift of smuggling to the Middle East and Asia," Alex Schmid, head of antiterrorism for the United Nations, told a conference recently.
In the last eight years, there have been 104 attempts to smuggle nuclear material into Turkey, according to an internal report by the Turkish Atomic Energy Authority. Most cases, like those elsewhere, involved tiny amounts of radioactive material with no weapons uses. But officials at the authority said a handful were potentially more serious.
In September 1998, eight people were arrested for trying to smuggle nuclear material from Russia through Turkey to an unknown destination. The police seized about 10 pounds of uranium 235 and a tenth of an ounce of a plutonium mixture.
Yasar Ozal, director of Turkey's nuclear research center, said the plutonium and uranium were not weapons-grade material, but appeared to be fuel pellets. Nonetheless, he said, the appearance of plutonium on the black market was alarming.
In another case, a Turk was arrested at the Bulgarian border carrying a small amount of enriched uranium 235 in May 1999. Authorities said that the quality was high and that the material might have been a sample that he was trying to use to drum up a larger sale.
But Ismail Caliskan, director of Turkey's police unit fighting smuggling and organized crime, said the danger from nuclear smuggling had been exaggerated. Almost every incident, he said, involved amateur criminals trying to sell radioactive material with no weapons value. The only buyers, he said, are undercover policemen. 
Turkey illustrates the difficulty of monitoring borders. The country is slightly larger than Texas and has 120 border posts, including crossings to Iraq and Syria in the south, Bulgaria in the northwest and Georgia, Armenia and Iran in the east.
A senior customs official said only two border posts have systems to detect radioactive material, both donated by the United States. He asked that the locations not be identified, but said neither is at Habur, a busy crossing between Turkey and Iraq.
Locations without detection devices rely on visual inspections, something that can be difficult. A kilo of plutonium (2.2 pounds) is so dense it can be concealed in a container the size of a soft-drink can.
Some American detection equipment went to Uzbekistan, which has hundreds of miles of border in remote deserts and mountainous terrain. Border guards at three locations received van-sized detection units and 30 hand-held detectors far more powerful than Geiger counters.
Early last month, guards at a remote Uzbek post on the border with Turkmenistan stopped a sealed truck en route to Iran when one of the American-supplied devices went off, according to American officials.
The officials said they did not know what type of material the truck carried. They said the truck had come from Kazakhstan and passed undetected through the checkpoint at Gisht Kuprik on the Kazak border before being stopped in Alat.
Another American device, on the border between Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, about 20 miles from Tashkent, the Uzbek capital, detected radioactive material in March 2000 in a truckload of scrap metal. Uzbek authorities said the truck was coming from Kazakhstan, bound for Pakistan with 10 briefcase-sized containers of radioactive material. The Uzbeks sent it back to Kazakhstan for analysis of the material and a criminal investigation. 
A Western diplomat said that when the Uzbeks stopped the vehicle, a second truck loaded with scrap turned and went back to Kazakhstan. 
What followed remains a bit of a mystery and an illustration of how regional rivalries can make it tougher to stop trafficking: The Uzbeks complained that the radioactive material disappeared in Kazakhstan and that no arrests were made. 
The Kazakhstan government has a good record on trying to curb nuclear-related smuggling. It worked closely with the United States to protect its Soviet-era nuclear facilities, and 1,300 pounds of weapons-grade uranium was removed from the country in 1994 by American officials.
But Western officials said they, too, were left in the dark about the outcome of the inquiry into the material on the scrap-metal truck. 
In Kazakhstan's first official explanation, Altynbek Sarsenbayev, assistant to the president for national security, denied that there were any briefcase-size containers. He said the problem arose because the scrap metal was contaminated with low-level radioactivity.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yasar Ozal, director of Turkey's nuclear research center. (Staton R. Winter for The New York Times)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); SMUGGLING (91%); ARMIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); BRIBERY (78%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (76%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); POWER PLANTS (71%); TERRORISM (71%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; SMUGGLING; BRIBERY 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%) INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%) GEORGIA (96%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%) TURKEY; PAKISTAN; IRAN; IRAQ; GEORGIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



300 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Spoiling the Broth 

 BODY:
When Frank Flynn, a Columbia University professor of organizational behavior, drafted a fictitious letter to 240 New York restaurants, he did so in the hope of studying "vendor response to consumer complaints." The letter stated that he had been stricken with "extended nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and abdominal cramps" in each of the restaurants after a wedding anniversary dinner. Those symptoms were nothing compared with the headache Professor Flynn must have had last week when he realized how badly his research had gone awry. His letter caused a reign of terror in many of the city's top restaurants, as management tried to ferret out the culprits. If his subject had been culinary paranoia or perhaps the temper of the high-profile chef, the letter would have been perfectly crafted. 
 As it was, however, the restaurateurs were the ones who got to study organizational behavior. First came a formal apology from the dean of Columbia's business school, then a letter from Mr. Flynn in which he apologized and promised never to conduct such studies again. His academic fate is now being decided. Perhaps the simplest, as well as the most just, punishment would be to send the professor to work for a time in a few of those 240 kitchens. There is no name on the kitchen staff for the role Mr. Flynn would play -- the hierarchy doesn't reach that low -- but he would certainly learn a lot about vendor response to consumer complaints. 
 Restaurants are already feeling the gravity of this sodden economy, and the Flynn letter must have been as welcome as a power failure or a garbage haulers' strike. The situation calls to mind the Monty Python sketch about the restaurant patron who complains of a dirty fork, leading to the suicide of the entire wait and kitchen staff. For a brief moment last week, the culinary establishment of New York edged collectively toward the psychic precipice. All in all, it was a near thing for New York diners. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); POWER FAILURES (50%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (50%) FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; EDITORIALS; HOAXES; RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: FLYNN, FRANK (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



301 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Nikkei Plunge Has Investors On the Edge

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Tuesday, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
After the biggest plunge in a month pushed the Nikkei 225 stock index down 321 points on Monday, this popular economic barometer had long left behind "the Koizumi effect" -- the gains surrounding the emergence of Junichiro Koizumi as prime minister five months ago.
 After dropping 25 percent this year, the Nikkei in afternoon trading was up 108.59 points, or 1.1 percent, to 10,304.28, dancing above the 10,000 barrier, a level last seen in 1984. Still, the index could fall below the Dow Jones industrial average, a situation not seen since 1957, the opening days of Japan's economic boom. 
 With the Nikkei now pointed toward four-digit territory, few investors want to be reminded of the "bubble" era peak, on Dec. 29, 1989, when the index topped out at 39,915. 
In past drops, Japanese governments often intervened, especially at crucial times like the end of September -- the end of the half-year for companies and banks. But this time, Mr. Koizumi has said he will not step in.
"In the past, you had Japan's financial socialism kick in to keep up share prices," said Jesper Koll, chief economist for Merrill Lynch Japan. "This time they have made it very clear that if stock prices fall, so be it."
For years, Americans watched the Nikkei dispassionately. But today, interest is acute as billions of dollars flow in and out of Japanese markets.
From a marginal foreign participation of 4 percent of holdings a decade ago, foreigners held 19 percent of share values at the end of March, according to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. During the first half of this year, foreigners, hoping that Japan had bottomed out, pumped in a net $30 billion.
Now, although some Japanese equities are hitting 17-year lows, many foreign investors wonder where the bottom is. Suffering from what one American financial executive here calls "fear of regret," they are quietly selling.
"The U.S. investors are definitely on the sell," Garry Evans, chief strategist for HSBC Securities Japan Ltd., said Monday evening. "There is a feeling, 'Isn't it a bit late now?' "
Foreigners have also largely discounted the Koizumi phenomenon, recognizing that free market change to Japan's economy will come slowly, if at all.
"The honeymoon is basically over now," Marc Desmidt, director of Japanese equities for Merrill Lynch, said on Monday. "Koizumi needs to show his stuff, and walk his talk."
In the past, Japanese markets could blithely ignore foreign opinions. But, with foreigners accounting for half of all trades through July, that is no longer the case.
There is little Japanese interest in companies that often pay small or no dividends, ignore minority shareholder interests, and in many cases are not run primarily to make profits. Although the Japanese have some of the highest savings rates in the world, only 6 percent of the savings of the average Japanese household is invested in stocks, compared with more than 35 percent in America and Europe. American and European brokerage companies here are laying off workers, and Merrill Lynch is closing 6 of its 33 retail outlets in Japan.
"The Japanese are permanent sellers, and the market only goes up if foreigners buy," Andrew Smithers, a British economist and a Japan expert, said on a recent visit here. "Why should foreigners buy into an economy where shares are overpriced, where the economy is falling, and where the government doesn't know what to do about it?"
In recent weeks, Japan's government has been battered by numerous gloomy statistics: official unemployment rising to 5 percent, the gross domestic product dropping by an annualized rate of 3.2 percent, and the once vaunted trade surplus melting like butter.
This is likely to be a major topic of talks on Wednesday when Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill meets with Mr. Koizumi and others in Tokyo.
Mr. O'Neill's primary concern is expected to be the tottering state of many Japanese banks.
But damage is muted slightly by the fact that the Nikkei overstates the poor shape of Japan's stock markets. In April 2000, the Nikkei index was shuffled, dropping 30 "old economy" stocks, replacing them with 30 technology stocks. Today, technology shares account for about 37 percent of the Nikkei.
The perils of technology were illustrated on Monday, when NTT DoCoMo Inc., Japan's dominant cell phone company, dropped 5.4 percent on the news of disappointing subscriptions in August. Last Thursday, the Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan's largest automaker, supplanted DoCoMo as Japan's most highly valued company.
While the public follows the Nikkei, most analysts follow the Tokyo stock price index, or Topix, a broader index, which fell Monday to a 33-month low. This year, the Topix is down 17.6 percent, or slightly worse than the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
However, with Japanese news media breathlessly reporting the latest drop, the Nikkei is firmly embedded in the popular consciousness. Mr. Koizumi cannot ignore the fact that the index has lost slightly more than 1 trillion yen, or one-quarter of its value, since May 7, when he confidently pledged a radical reform program for Japan's economy.
On Monday, after the Nikkei neared 10,000, Mr. Koizumi told reporters: "This is a severe situation, but U.S. share prices are also falling. We must watch developments carefully."
The chief secretary of his cabinet, Yasuo Fukuda, said Monday: "Personally, I doubt whether the current stock prices are reflecting the real situation of the Japanese economy."
But, across town, Taku Yamasaki, secretary general of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, said of Tokyo stock prices: "I think they reflect economic fundamentals."
Some analysts, like Mr. Desmidt, say the Nikkei would have to drop below 8,000 before banks would be seriously damaged. But the political pressure is mounting for the Koizumi government to stabilize the market by buying up shares.
"Most domestic investors know that the government will come in by the end of September," Robert Sasaki, managing director for derivatives for Bear Stearns in Tokyo, predicted Monday. "The government realizes that 10,000 is a huge line in the sand, so they will defend that line."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "What Went Up, Did Come Down"The Nikkei 225 stock index, the most widely followed measure of Japan's stock market performance, started in early 1950 at about the same level as the Dow Jones industrial average. After a spectacular run-up in the late 1980's, the Nikkei is now, once again, near the same level as the Dow. Graph tracks the Nikkei 225 and Dow Jones Industrials since 1950.(Sources: Datastream; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: HSBC SECURITIES JAPAN LTD (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH JAPAN SECURITIES CO LTD (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) JAPAN

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



302 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Nuclear Smugglers Turn To Central Asian Routes
The appearance of a relatively large quantity of uranium, nearly four pounds, on the black market in Georgia, a former Soviet republic, has underscored concerns within the American government that trafficking in nuclear material has shifted from Europe to the Caucasus, Central Asia and Turkey. A1

New Fighting on Eve of Talks
Two soldiers were slain by Palestinian snipers near a checkpoint separating the Palestinian town of Tulkarm and Israel. Israeli tanks shelled Palestinian security positions outside Jenin in the West Bank. Both sides were still discussing plans for truce talks tentatively set for today. A3

Afghan Fighter's Fate in Doubt
There were conflicting reports that Ahmed Shah Massoud, the leader of the last remaining opposition to the ruling Taliban, had survived a suicide bomber's attack on Sunday. A15

Suicide Bombing in Istanbul
Two police officers were killed and at least 20 people were injured when a suicide bomber set off a powerful explosion in the busy Taksim Square district, officials said. A3

Russia Firm on Missiles
Defense Minister Sergei B. Ivanov expressed Moscow's resolve to oppose America's missile defense plans on a day when President Bush was on the telephone to President Vladimir V. Putin seeking to buttress their personal relationship. A14

Joseph R. Biden Jr., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said that plans for missile defense sacrifice national security for the sake of a "theological" belief and that the effort to make such a system work would cost astronomical sums. A14

Irregulars Labeled Terrorists
The Bush administration designated as a terror group the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia, a right-wing paramilitary group responsible for hundreds of killings. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is to meet with President Andres Pastrana today. A10

East Timor Vote Approved
The United Nations certified the results of East Timor's first democratic election and a newly chosen constituent assembly prepared to start drafting a Constitution. A15

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A16-21

Key Leaders in Congress Discuss Further Tax Cuts
Prominent figures in both political parties responded to the darkening economic outlook by exploring possible compromises on additional tax cuts. The Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee suggested that a deal could involve the politically perilous step of tapping the Social Security surplus temporarily. The White House and some Capitol Hill Republicans also talked of spending cuts. Polls show that support for Republicans is eroding. A1

Dole to Seek Senate Seat
Elizabeth Dole is expected to announce her candidacy today for the North Carolina Senate seat being vacated after the 2002 election by Jesse Helms, a fellow Republican. A16

Driver Beaten After Boy's Death
The driver of a tow truck that accidentally hit and killed a 4-year-old boy in Los Angeles was severely beaten over the weekend by a crowd of more than 20 people, the police said. A16

OBITUARIES C17

SCIENCE TIMES F1-12

Call to Expand Cell Pool
A panel of scientific experts concluded that new colonies, or lines, of human embryonic stem cells will be necessary if the science is to advance. The finding is likely to inflame the political debate over President Bush's decision to restrict federally financed research to the 64 lines already known to exist. A1

Findings on Arsenic in Water
The National Academy of Sciences has concluded that arsenic is so dangerous in drinking water that stringent levels set by the Clinton administration and later suspended by the Bush White House were justified but perhaps not strict enough. A20

G.P.S. Not Reliable, U.S. Says
The Global Positioning System -- which airlines plan to use to land flights in zero visibility, railroads want for avoiding train collisions and ships use to navigate shoals -- is vulnerable to interference and even "spoofing" by enemies, the Transportation Department said. The report suggested that older technologies should be maintained as backups. A21

Health & Fitness F5

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

30 Years After a Hijacking, A Suspect Is Arrested
A teacher in Westchester County, Patrick Dolan Critton, 54, was arrested in connection with the 1971 hijacking of a Canadian airliner to Cuba. Canadian investigators tracked him down through the Internet. A1

New Charges for Jailed Mayor
State prosecutors charged Philip A. Giordano, 38, the three-term mayor of Waterbury, Conn., with raping the two girls, aged 9 and 10, with whom federal prosecutors said he had repeated sexual encounters this year. If convicted of the new charges, he could spend the rest of his life in prison. B1

Last Chance for Votes
The six major candidates running to succeed Mayor Giuliani ranged across the city in a final burst of politicking before today's vote. B1

FASHION B7-8

ARTS E1-10

SPORTS D1-8

Denver Defeats New York
The Broncos beat the Giants, 31-20, to inaugurate a new Denver stadium. D1

EDUCATION

The Fashion Police Get Tough
Shirts and skirts are inching up, pants are slipping down, and schools across the country are finding themselves forced to tighten their dress codes and police their hallways. A1

Incest Verse Prompts Recall
The New York City Board of Education recalled a Maya Angelou book that had been sent under a Mayor Giuliani initiative to libraries for children in kindergarten through third grade. A poem in the book uses explicit language about incest. Officials cited a clerical error in explaining how the book was put on the list. B2

Catholic School Strike Looms
Teachers at 10 Catholic high schools in New York City and its suburbs threatened to go on strike as early as today over pay and delays in talks. B3

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

U.S. Accuses Firm of Sex Bias
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission filed a sex-discrimination suit against Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in the case of a highly paid bond saleswoman who was fired. The commission chairwoman said as many as 100 other women had also been victims of bias within a single division since 1995. C1

Bitter Gucci Fight Over
The French billionaire Francois Pinault took effective control of the Gucci Group with an agreement to buy much of the stake held by a rival tycoon, Bernard Arnault. C1

Nikkei Plunge Alarms Investors
The Nikkei stock index, which has lost 25 percent of its value this year, is in danger of falling below the 10,000 barrier, a level last seen in 1984. It could even drop below the Dow Jones industrial average, a situation not seen since 1957, the opening days of Japan's economic boom. C1

A Comeback on Wall Street
The stock market rallied from early losses in the day. The Dow, which plunged 3.5 percent last week, closed down just 0.34 point, at 9,605.51, after beginning the day down as much as 112 points. The Nasdaq gained 7.68 points, to 1,695.38, and the S.& P. 500 rose 6.76 points, to 1,092.54. C9

More High-Tech Jobs Cut
Qwest Communications, the operator of large fiber optic and local telephone networks, said it would eliminate 4,000 jobs, or 6 percent of its work force, by early 2002. C6

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The politics of panic; spoiling the broth; primary choices.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E10
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TALIBAN (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); POLITICS (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); BUDGETS (65%); SOCIAL SECURITY (65%); TAX LAW (65%); RELIGION (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOE BIDEN (57%); SERGEI IVANOV (55%); ELIZABETH DOLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); TURKEY (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); GEORGIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



303 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Marshall Field's decides it's time for a big branding effort.

BYLINE:  By Allison Fass 

 BODY:
IN a new campaign meant to romanticize the experiences people can have at its department stores, Marshall Field's is beginning its first major branding effort since its parent, the Target Corporation, changed the names of its Dayton's and Hudson's stores to Marshall Field's. 
 The campaign, with billings estimated at $25 million to $35 million, was created by Arnold Worldwide in Boston, part of the Arnold Worldwide Partners unit of Havas Advertising. It began on Sunday and includes print, television and outdoor ads that carry the theme "The sheer joy of shopping," and revolve around enjoyable, personal and even moving situations that can occur at Marshall Field's. 
 Perhaps the emotional appeal will engage consumers as the souring economy leaves them anxious about where to shop and how to best spend their money. This is particularly important as August sales reflect that Americans are heading to discount chains rather than department or specialty stores. 
The Target Corporation was consistent with that pattern, with August sales for Marshall Field's department stores declining 4 percent from figures in the month a year earlier, while August same-store sales for its discount-oriented Target stores were up 3.9 percent. Similarly, Marshall Field's sales so far this year were down 6.3 percent, while same-store sales at Target were up 3.2 percent.
"This is the opportunity to strengthen our brand," said Katie Erickson, vice president for marketing and visual merchandising for Marshall Field's in Minneapolis. It is the chance for "anybody that knew Dayton's or anybody that knew Hudson's" to know Marshall Field's.
"It's not just about coming in our store and buying an outfit and leaving," she added. The ads show "what's important about our brand on an emotional level, not just a rational level."
The ads focus on different Marshall Field's shopping scenes and carry a title using the word "Experience." In one print ad, "Experience sick day," only one fitting room in a row has clothes draped on the door, illustrating a woman who goes shopping under the guise of being sick. In another print ad, "Experience fate," a young woman is shown gazing at a wedding dress.
In a television spot, "Experience fragrance," a woman leisurely leaves a Marshall Field's store and catches the attention of a blind man who turns his head as she walks by. A shoe department salesman carries a pair of shoes in a television ad, "Experience service," as he makes his way through an obstacle course including running through fields and jumping onto a freight train before arriving at a shoe department where a customer is waiting.
A more general branding spot shows a string of experiences as customers celebrate shopping at Marshall Field's; they are walking through the store, dancing and looking at merchandise, among other things. At different points, words on the screen say, "Experience impulse," "Experience chocolate," "Experience selection," "Experience service," "Experience love at first sight," "Experience delirium." A fourth TV spot explains "Project Imagine," the program through which Marshall Field's donates 5 percent of its income to community arts and cultural institutions.
The television spots carry upbeat, engaging music reminiscent of the music that became well known in Arnold's popular ads for Volkswagen of America.
The campaign seeks "to communicate that there's an experience worth having and you might want to try it out yourself," said Ron Lawner, chairman and chief creative officer at Arnold. It also aims to "touch" consumers, "inform them, give them a sense of the experience," he added. "That's what advertising does."
The strategy behind the campaign was based on research conducted by Arnold, with more than 75 women ages 25 to 49 from large markets like Chicago, Detroit and Minneapolis and smaller cities like Battle Creek, Mich., and Bismarck, N.D., which have Marshall Field's stores. In addition to small group and one-to-one interviews, the research also included women taking Arnold employees on tours of their favorite parts of Marshall Field's stores. Women were selected based on their "best guest" status for spending the most money at Marshall Field's, based on a loyalty program.
"When they talked about Marshall Field's, it was all about the experience and all the things they can do and feel at the store," said Kate Van Dam, senior account planner at Arnold. "When they talked about competitors, they talked about value, saving money, or they might talk about a specific style or fashion."
The print ads appear in the September issues of magazines like Vanity Fair and Vogue. In Chicago, Detroit and Minneapolis, there are ads in city magazines as well as outdoor ads. The TV spots will also appear regionally. Direct mail created in conjunction with an in-house team at Marshall Field's will also be part of the campaign.
Advertising for the three separate store chains was previously handled in-house and primarily focused on sales and special events.
Marshall Field's now operates 64 stores in eight states: Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota and Wisconsin. The Marshall Field's Web site, www.fields.com, which has been used by consumers nationwide, was updated in the spring.
"Shopping now isn't as pleasant as it used to be as a whole," said Kara Goodrich, senior vice president and creative director at Arnold. "One of the things that might be appealing to people about a department store like Marshall Field's is getting back to that peaceful, intimate, personal, quiet-almost shopping experience."
But is the Marshall Field's experience different from that of other department stores?
"I do think we heard over and over again customers have stories that Marshall Field's has gone out of its way to provide a huge extra measure of service to them," Ms. Goodrich said. "You'd have to go there to find out if it were true or not."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new campaign created by Arnold Worldwide for Marshall Field's focuses on a variety of shopping scenes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); SHOE STORES (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); WOMEN (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); SICK LEAVE (60%); TRAINS (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (97%); MACY'S INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL FIELDS; TARGET CORP; ARNOLD WORLDWIDE PARTNERS 

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (97%); M (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (97%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (97%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

PERSON: FASS, ALLISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



304 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sues Morgan Stanley, Charging Sex Bias in a Firing 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
The federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission filed a sex-discrimination suit yesterday against Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, in what Cari M. Dominguez, the commission's chairwoman, said was its first action to contend that a major Wall Street firm did not treat female professionals fairly.
 In filing the suit in United States District Court in Manhattan, the commission took up the case of Allison K. Schieffelin, a high-paid bond saleswoman whom Morgan Stanley fired in October after she complained that she had been denied the additional pay and a promotion she had earned. 
 Ms. Dominguez said the commission thought that as many as 100 other women had been victims of similar discrimination within a single division of Morgan Stanley's investment bank since 1995. 
The appearance of Ms. Dominguez -- her first in New York since she was sworn in last month -- at a news conference to announce the suit signaled that Bush administration officials would enforce antidiscrimination laws for even the highest-paid workers. Some employment lawyers had questioned whether the government would go to court to fight for so fortunate a person as Ms. Schieffelin, who earned more than $1 million a year for several years.
"I came to New York today not only to thank Ms. Schieffelin for her courage but also to sound a wake-up call to all employers," Ms. Dominguez said. "This administration will not allow -- in any form, at any level or in any industry -- the existence of workplace barriers that operate to exclude on the basis of gender or any other impermissible personal characteristic."
Ms. Dominguez said Ms. Schieffelin's situation underlined a growing problem of employers' punishing workers for discrimination complaints. The commission's suit includes a contention that the firm retaliated against Ms. Schieffelin in a variety of ways, culminating in her dismissal on the ground of insubordination.
A spokesman for Morgan Stanley, Raymond O'Rourke, said that Ms. Schieffelin was fired after a confrontation with a supervisor in which she was "verbally abusive and physically threatening."
To prove that it did not discriminate against Ms. Schieffelin, he said, "we're fully prepared to go to court."
Wall Street firms generally try to avoid court trials, to minimize adverse publicity and the possibility that a jury will award a large amount in damages to plaintiffs. Lawyers for the commission and Ms. Schieffelin declined to say how much they hoped to receive in back pay and damages. 
The suit and Ms. Dominguez's remarks compounded Wall Street's considerable image problems. Recent lawsuits against two of the biggest American securities firms portrayed the brokerage business as hostile to female employees, but investment banks have cultivated the impression that they operate as meritocracies where performance is all that matters.
Lawyers for the commission said that statistics indicated otherwise. In 1998, the division in which Ms. Schieffelin worked, Morgan Stanley's institutional equities unit, had 50 managing directors; 3 were women. All the highest-paid employees in the division were men, the suit contends.
For her part, Ms. Schieffelin said, her sex was the only possible reason she was repeatedly told that she would not achieve her career-long ambition of becoming a Morgan Stanley managing director. A promotion would have meant she could earn "double, triple, quadruple what I was making," she said.
Ms. Schieffelin had worked at the firm for 14 years, since she obtained her M.B.A. degree at Northwestern University in 1986. She showed proficiency in selling convertible bonds, corporate debt securities that can be converted into shares of stock. Convertible bonds have become popular in recent years, and underwriting and trading them has become a lucrative business on Wall Street.
By all accounts, Ms. Schieffelin was a successful saleswoman, doing business with big institutional investors on the West Coast. Mr. O'Rourke said that she had been the firm's highest-paid convertible-bond salesperson.
To get to such a point, Ms. Schieffelin said in an interview yesterday, she made some big sacrifices. 
"I really made the choice not to have a family," said Ms. Schieffelin, 40, who is divorced. "I was going to L.A. every single week. I couldn't even have a goldfish."
She was such an enthusiastic employee, she said, that she almost immediately started helping Morgan Stanley recruit at Northwestern. Even now that she is looking for work at other firms, she said, she catches herself asking former clients about the deals "we" are doing -- meaning Morgan Stanley.
"I loved my job," she said. "I miss the action. I miss my clients."
Although high-ranking employees on Wall Street rarely speak ill of their firms for fear of losing their jobs or being blackballed in the industry, Ms. Schieffelin said she had not expected to be fired for complaining to the commission. Before she went outside the firm, she had her lawyer, Wayne N. Outten, write a letter to John J. Mack, then Morgan Stanley's president and now chief executive of Credit Suisse First Boston. 
"I really thought they were going to say, 'Gosh, we know Allie. This is somebody who has been a team player for all of her career,' " Ms. Schieffelin said.
Instead, she said, she almost immediately found herself frozen out, removed from important projects and receiving smaller allocations of bond offerings to sell to clients and sometimes worse prices for her clients' trades from Morgan Stanley traders.
She also contends that a managing director made unwanted sexual advances toward her.
But the crux of her complaint is financial.
"Morgan Stanley is a big, big company," she said, "and what they understand is money," adding that the amount the commission seeks from a jury "has got to be enough money to deter them from doing this again."
"If it doesn't cost them any money," Ms. Schieffelin said, "they won't change their practices."
Economic discrimination is a recurring complaint on Wall Street. Groups of female stockbrokers who sued Merrill Lynch & Company and the Smith Barney unit of Citigroup also contended that they had been victims of a pattern of discrimination in pay and promotions. Those firms settled the cases, which the commission did not get involved in, by setting up new procedures to resolve the disputes out of court.
Ms. Dominguez said that biased pay and promotion decisions on Wall Street were part of an industry culture that "often isolates and marginalizes women."
She deplored the practice of retaliating against women who assert their civil rights to be treated as equals in the workplace.
"It's been called kiss your Wall Street career goodbye," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The E.E.O.C. chief, Cari M. Dominguez, with Allison Schieffelin, seated, ousted by Morgan Stanley. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); WOMEN (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); BONDS (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); BACK PAY (78%); JURY TRIALS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%) STOCKS AND BONDS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DISCRIMINATION; WOMEN; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (93%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (93%) EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION; MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%)

PERSON: DOMINGUEZ, CARI M (CHAIRWOMAN); SCHIEFFELIN, ALLISON K; MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



305 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Compromises Are Explored On Additional Tax Cuts
Leaders in both parties responded to the darkening economic outlook by exploring possible compromises on additional tax cuts, and the Democratic chairman of the Senate Budget Committee suggested that such a deal could involve the politically perilous step of tapping temporarily into the Social Security surplus.
 Pressure mounted on President Bush to drop his cautious approach to dealing with the weakening economy, much of it from within his own party. Page A1. 

Snag Looms Over China Trade Talks
A three-day conference that begins today in Geneva was supposed to tie up the loose ends for China's entry into the World Trade Organization. Instead, all eyes are on one big remaining obstacle: the squabble between the European Union and the United States over access to China's vast life insurance market. C2.

Qwest Plans to Cut 4,000 Jobs
Qwest Communications, the operator of large fiber optic and local telephone networks, said that it would eliminate 4,000 jobs by the beginning of next year, adding to the woes of the telecommunications industry. The company also reduced its spending and sales estimates. Investors, optimistic about more prudent capital expenditures, pushed shares of Qwest up $1.76, to $19.90. C6.

TV News Emphasis Shifts to Morning
The decision by CNN to lure the anchor Paula Zahn away from Fox News for a new morning program reflects the seismic shift that has occurred in television news, with the morning now the place to find the biggest stars and the viewers most desirable to advertisers. A1.

Stocks End Day Little Changed
The stock market rallied from early losses to finish the day little changed. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 0.34 point, to 9,605.51. The Nasdaq composite index rose 7.68 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,695.38, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 6.76 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,092.54. C9.

AOL Not in a Cable Bidding War Yet
AOL Time Warner's expression of interest in buying 40 percent of AT&T's 14 million cable subscribers does not necessarily signal a bidding war, experts said. News Analysis. C4.

YankeeNets Gets Its Own Channel
A year of battling in court and wooing investors spawned what YankeeNets coveted since it was formed two years ago: a cable television channel of its own, called the Yankees Entertainment and Sports network. D6.

Lernout Offers Plan for Revamping
Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products, the struggling software concern, filed a new restructuring plan and announced that it was talking to at least two potential buyers of its core activities. "We have filed a plan to reorganize a going concern," said the company's chief executive, Philippe Bodson. Under the new plan, the company would need $20 million to $25 million in cash to stay in business and would retain about 400 of its 571 workers. World Business, Section W.

Scottish Power to Take a Charge
Scottish Power said that it had miscalculated so badly in the California power shortages and the resulting wild swings in American energy prices that it would have to take a $300 million charge. World Business, Section W.

Investment Bank Merges Divisions
Credit Suisse First Boston's chief executive merged the bank's bond and stock divisions, naming one of his predecessor's top aides to manage a group of about 6,000 people. C4.

Economists Cut Growth Forecasts
Business economists lowered their forecasts for growth for 2001 and 2002 but most said the economy would not slide into recession. A separate report from the Federal Reserve showed that the level of consumer credit outstanding unexpectedly held steady in July. C16.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,605.51 down 0.34Nasdaq composite -- 1,695.38 up 7.6810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.84% up 0.06The euro -- $0.8995 down 0.0069The dollar -- 120.95 yen up 0.88 Graph tracks Qwest Communications share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); CABLE TELEVISION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (71%); SALES FIGURES (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); INSURANCE (68%); FIBER OPTICS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%); LIFE INSURANCE (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); AOL INC (81%); CENTURYLINK INC (70%); LERNOUT & HAUSPIE SPEECH PRODUCTS USA INC (61%); NUANCE COMMUNICATIONS INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (81%); CTL (NYSE) (70%); NUAN (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (70%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (61%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (61%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (61%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



306 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of Panic 

 BODY:
The summer has barely ended, but President Bush and his Congressional allies are already frantically rewriting their script for the fall. This was supposed to be a season for Mr. Bush to talk about "values," not fiscal policy. But with a sinking economy, evanescing surplus and tottering budget, Republicans are going back to the drawing board. Some, like Trent Lott, the Senate minority leader, want to cut the capital gains tax. House Republicans are talking about broad spending cuts. The White House says Mr. Bush would listen to these and other ideas to revive the economy. There is a whiff of panic in the air, and panic can lead to bad policy. 
 That many Republicans are now rallying around a cut in the capital gains tax (from 20 to 15 percent) is a particular sign of desperation. After ramming through one of the most unfair tax cuts in history, one that targeted most of its benefits to the most wealthy taxpayers, the party is focusing on a new reduction that would lavish 80 percent of its benefit on the wealthiest 2 percent of taxpayers. A capital gains tax cut would not stimulate the economy in the short term, the most pressing economic need. While perhaps providing a quick infusion of revenue in the next year, as stockholders sold off shares to take advantage of the new rates, it would deepen the nation's long-term fiscal hole. The only thing to recommend it is that it would reward party fund-raisers and benefactors. 
 Mr. Bush and his economic advisers have until now resisted capital gains tax-cut proposals. During the campaign, Lawrence Lindsey, now the chief economic counselor, dismissed the idea as redolent of old Republican economic thinking, and not acceptable to the "compassionate conservative" philosophy of Mr. Bush. But that was then. Now the White House is saying it might be interested. It will be a hard sell politically, especially since the only way to pay for such a tax cut would be to siphon off even more of the Social Security revenues that Mr. Bush once said were inviolable.
To help Mr. Bush keep his promise not to touch Social Security funds, some Republicans are urging another bad idea: more budget cuts. Today the House will begin taking up a nutty scheme to "sequester" spending -- that is, cut spending -- in non-defense areas next year in order to avoid tapping Social Security money this year. This gimmick turns Keynesianism on its head. If an economic downturn invites a stimulative fiscal policy by cutting taxes, surely such an approach would be completely undermined by a parallel policy of cutting spending. Hard as a capital gains tax cut is to justify, it is even more unacceptable to finance it by cutting spending on health, children's nutrition and education -- the latter being the very priority that Mr. Bush set aside the week to promote in his new "values" agenda.
Democrats are saying privately that they might accept some sort of tax reduction provided the Bush administration is willing, in turn, to repeal part of the previously enacted tax cut that takes place several years from now. In theory, that may make sense. Democrats are also floating the idea of a tax cut that, this time, would go to lower-income taxpayers who got nothing out of the last package by giving them some sort of a credit for Social Security and Medicare taxes. One measure of Mr. Lott's eagerness for a capital gains tax cut is that yesterday he said he would consider adding the Democratic proposal to it.
Whatever happens, this is no time for cutting more taxes on the wealthy and cutting more spending on programs of vital importance to the most vulnerable Americans. Republicans are right about the need to rewrite their script. But the revisions they are clutching at now would make a bad plot even more implausible. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); NUTRITION (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TRENT LOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



307 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Report Cites Vulnerabilities Of Global Navigation System 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
The Global Positioning System which airlines plan to use to land flights in zero visibility, railroads want for avoiding train collisions and ships use to navigate shoals -- is vulnerable to interference and even "spoofing" by enemies, the Transportation Department said today.
 A report ordered by President Bill Clinton two years ago suggested that older technologies, which are more expensive and less precise but also more robust, needed to be maintained as a backups. 
 "There is a growing awareness within the transportation community that the safety and economic risks associated with loss or degradation of the G.P.S. signal have been underestimated," the report said. 
The receivers are also used by motorists, hikers and even surveyors, although for them failures would presumably not be potentially catastrophic. Banks and electric utilities also use the signals for precise time measurements.
The report did not rank the risks or say exactly what the government should do; instead the transportation secretary gave the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Railroad Administration and other agencies 60 days to report on how they would maintain safety. 
The G.P.S. system has tremendous potential for increasing operating efficiencies in aviation, helping planes fly more direct routes and land in low visibility in places that lack conventional instrument landing systems. By letting vehicles determine their positions and radio that information back to a central control point, it can help controllers get more use out resources like railroad tracks and runways. 
But the radio signals, which come from satellites, have a strength of less than one quadrillionth of a watt when they reach the receiver; a transmitter of only several watts can blank out large areas. Today's report said an adversary could broadcast a counterfeit signal that would confuse the receivers.
And in case of war, the satellites themselves might become targets, the report said.
The aviation agency's existing system costs about $100 million a year to maintain. That includes about 1,000 radio beacons, which pilots use to triangulate their positions; 1,200 instrument landing systems that guide planes to runways; and scores of radar stations, which controllers use to determine the position of planes. If the planes themselves knew with precision where they were, they could radio that information to the ground and make the radar obsolete.
At the agency, Steven Zaidman, the associate administrator for research and acquisitions, said that he had not yet read the report but that "it's clear that we're not going to get as much savings" as initially hoped.
The aviation administration will not face the decision about what to retire until 2010, Mr. Zaidman said, to give commercial and private planes time to equip themselves with G.P.S. receivers and to let the agency install equipment near airports that would augment the satellite signals, making the signal accurate enough for low-visibility landings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (89%); AIRCRAFT COMMUNICATION & NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (89%); AVIONICS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRCRAFT LANDING SYSTEMS (72%); HIKING (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



308 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Dell Computer Is in the Catbird Seat, for Now 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
When Hewlett-Packard announced last week that it planned to join forces with Compaq Computer, creating a combined hardware and services company almost the size of I.B.M., its executives said it had contemplated leaving the personal computer business entirely.
 Gateway -- which ran insouciant ads last spring that said, "PC Price War . . .? Cool." -- has closed retail stores, begun a sharp pullback from international sales and announced thousands of layoffs. 
 While no single person can be blamed for the abrupt shift in the PC market, once highly profitable, much of the turmoil can be attributed to a brutal price-cutting campaign by one man: Michael S. Dell, the founder, chairman and chief executive of Dell Computer. His tactic of slashing prices in the middle of a market slump is something that only his company, which has done more to make its manufacturing processes nimble and efficient than any of its competitors, can afford. 
"The company is in a very good position to leverage its advantages to the hilt," said Ashok Kumar, an analyst with U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray.
Mr. Dell, 36, had revolutionized the industry before. He recognized early on that manufacturing could be structured around customers' needs instead of the one-size-fits-all approach that had existed in the industry. The company pioneered direct sales to business and consumers -- a sales channel that boomed with the advent of the World Wide Web. And he was also early to recognize that personal computers would become a commodity business like consumer electronics, and focused his company's efforts on squeezing costs out of the manufacturing process and passing the savings along to buyers.
The strategy has vaulted Dell to the top of the PC market, and brought Mr. Dell personal wealth of more than $16 billion.
Everyone is feeling the slump, but Dell can tolerate it better than most. In its second quarter, which ended Aug. 3, Dell announced that it had sold 19 percent more computers than in the period a year earlier, but sales measured in dollars were essentially flat, going to $7.61 billion this year from $7.67 billion last year. Dell lost $101 million in the latest second quarter because of one-time charges, but when those charges were excluded the company posted a profit of $433 million.
Dell is the biggest seller of PC's in the United States and worldwide, according to IDC, a market research firm, though it would be No. 2 to a combined Hewlett-Packard and Compaq. "The company was alone among the top vendors in growing shipments and market share as its rivals struggled to preserve volume and protect margins," an IDC report stated.
Dell has thinned the herd of PC makers before, said Tim Bajarin, an industry analyst in California; companies like AST and a host of smaller companies have found themselves unable to survive in a Dell world. "He's the Muhammed Ali of the industry," he said of Mr. Dell. "He floats like a butterfly and stings like a bee." The other companies cannot keep up, Mr. Bajarin said. "As new technologies come out he can put them in much faster than his competitors."
This shift to a commodity market, however, carries risks for consumers. Innovation, once the lifeblood of PC makers, becomes a luxury that the companies cannot afford. Research budgets shrink, and the role of innovator shifts to the companies at the core of the Windows-based PC market: the chip maker Intel and the operating system giant Microsoft. In that kind of environment, Mr. Bajarin said, Mr. Dell still wins. But the effect on consumers is less clear.
Lately even Dell has been focusing its attention where the money is in the industry, pushing the still-profitable sales of storage devices and powerful computers known as servers that are commonly used to store large databases and to house Web sites, as well as services.
The company's current tactics are familiar to many longtime observers of the quiet but fiercely competitive Mr. Dell. "He's the one calling the shots," said Andrew J. Neff, an analyst at Bear, Stearns. Mr. Neff spins a brief parable in which Mr. Dell asks his friends in the industry to go scuba diving with him. "Wait a minute, Michael," Mr. Neff imagines the friends saying. "Our tanks are only good for 30 minutes and your tank lasts about an hour. How long do you want to swim?"
"I don't know," replies the Mr. Dell of the story. "Forty-five minutes sounds about right." 
Mr. Dell himself, while soft spoken, has never hidden his passion for winning. A profile of him written in 1995 quoted a pep talk he once gave to employees in less circumspect days, in which he joked that his daughter's first words were, "Mommy . . . Daddy . . . Daddy, kill Compaq. Daddy, kill I.B.M. Daddy, kill Gateway."
The fact that Dell is still not the largest company competing in the dwindling PC market is a plus, Mr. Neff said. "He likes being No. 2 because it motivates his troops even more."
Yet the good times might not last, said Mr. Kumar, the analyst from U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. Dell's greatest advantage is realized during lean times, when customers look for bargains and every manufacturer has to cut costs to the bone. When times are flush, parts are hard to get and expensive, which shaves some of Dell's advantage, he said.
"We are not going to stay in this weak economic environment for an infinite period of time -- it's a cyclical phenomenon," Mr. Kumar said. "What was a headwind for Dell a year or two ago with tight supply is now a tail wind -- and it could very well switch again."
Mr. Dell declined to be interviewed for this article. But last week while he was in Nashville for a board meeting, he spoke to a reporter for The Associated Press and said that the market confusion in the wake of the Helwett-Packard-Compaq news could only bolster the fortunes of his company. "We've found that when there's turmoil and confusion around us, that generally increased opportunities for us," Mr. Dell said, not mentioning just who had helped cause the turmoil and confusion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael S. Dell, the founder and chief executive of Dell Computer, is slashing prices for PC's. (Reuters)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (93%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: DELL INC (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (85%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: DELL COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (85%); PJC (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (88%) DELL, MICHAEL S; SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



309 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: KEY LEADERS TALK OF POSSIBLE DEALS TO REVIVE ECONOMY 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL and RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
Key figures in both parties responded to the darkening economic outlook today by exploring possible compromises on additional tax cuts, and the Democratic chairman of the Senate Budget Committee suggested that such a deal could involve the politically perilous step of tapping temporarily into the Social Security surplus.
 Pressure mounted on President Bush to drop his cautious approach to dealing with the weakening economy, much of it from within his own party. Republicans are voicing growing concern that the White House has underestimated public unease about the economy and the threat it poses to members of Congress up for re-election next year. 
 Confronted with polls showing that support for Republicans was eroding even before the government reported on Friday that the unemployment rate had surged, nervous Republicans moved on a variety of fronts. 
In the House, Republican leaders agreed tonight to take up legislation in committee on Tuesday that would require automatic spending cuts if any Social Security money was spent on other government programs in the current fiscal year. 
After accounting for the slowing economy and the tax cut signed into law by Mr. Bush in June, the Congressional Budget Office projected last month that the government would spend $9 billion of Social Security receipts in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. Both parties now expect that figure to be higher.
The White House sent a memorandum to all cabinet agencies today asking them to look for possible budget cuts as the administration develops tax and spending proposals for its next budget. 
In the Senate, Trent Lott of Mississippi, the minority leader, said he was open to an idea floated by Democrats for a tax cut for workers who had not qualified for the current rebate. Workers who do not make enough money to pay federal income taxes but who still pay the payroll taxes that finance Social Security and Medicare will not receive rebate checks this year.
Mr. Lott said he would like to see the idea linked to a reduction in the capital gains tax. 
"I would like to at least see how that would work, discuss it with Democrats," Mr. Lott said.
Mr. Bush, who met with the Australian prime minister this morning in Washington and then flew to Florida to promote his education bill, was silent on the economy today. 
His spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said Mr. Bush remained confident that actions already taken, including the tax rebates and the Federal Reserve's interest rate cuts, would put the economy back on track. At the same time, Mr. Fleischer said, Mr. Bush is "open-minded about possible other ideas."
Today, at Justina Elementary School in Jacksonville, Fla., Mr. Bush repeated his plea for the Senate to take up his education initiative, highlighting $900 million in new money for reading programs. He gave no hint of backing off on that financing, or anything else in his budget plan.
"One of my dreams is to make sure that schools understand and have the resources available for schools within schools," he said.
On Capitol Hill, Democrats and Republicans alike groped for ways to address the economic slowdown and the attendant political risks.
The chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, hinted in an interview that he would be willing to consider using Social Security money to address the economic slowdown if Republicans were willing to scale back some elements of Mr. Bush's 10-year tax cut. But Mr. Conrad's approach was quickly dismissed by an aide to Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader.
In the interview, Mr. Conrad said Congress's response to the weakening economy should be "more fiscal stimulus in the short run, more fiscal discipline in the long run."
Asked if that meant a willingness to dip into the Social Security surplus -- a step that both parties have promised to avoid -- Mr. Conrad said the focus for now had to be on the economy, since the United States, Japan and Germany were all either in a recession or on the brink of one.
"What we really have to keep our eye on here is the economy," he said. "The critical thing is that you have fiscal discipline over time, that you're not taking Social Security and Medicare payroll tax money for other purposes over time."
In the short run, Mr Conrad said, more fiscal stimulus could be critical to keeping the economy from worsening. The details, he said, "could be worked out with Republicans."
Mr. Conrad said his position had been the same throughout this year's budget debate, but his language represented a clear shift in emphasis from the longstanding Democratic position that the Social Security surplus was sacrosanct. 
Mr. Conrad's views are not widely shared among Democrats. Tonight, a senior aide to Mr. Daschle was cool to Mr. Conrad's idea, saying, "Senator Daschle opposes using the Social Security surplus and believes that since the president rejected our budget approach and our short-term stimulus approach earlier this year, it is his responsibility to come forward with a plan."
In taking up the measure to cut spending across the board to repay any Social Security money spent for general government operations, Republicans in the House said they did not intend to be first to break their pledge.
"We'll send it over to the Senate," said Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, referring to the spending-cut legislation. "If Daschle is really worried about it, he can pick it up and pass it."
But Mr. Conrad's views are similar to the position taken by Mr. Bush, who has said he would consider using Social Security money if the economy lapsed into recession.
The flurry of tax plans and economic prescriptions come as Republicans in Congress are expressing frustration that Mr. Bush is not addressing the slowdown forcefully enough. 
Some Republicans are drawing a comparison to the midterm elections of 1982 when President Ronald Reagan told the nation to "stay the course" in a recession. House Republicans lost numerous seats in that election, but Mr. Reagan was re-elected in a landslide two years later.
Last week, on the same night that Mr. Bush was toasting the Mexican president at a state dinner, Congressional Republicans huddled at a dinner of their own on Capitol Hill that turned into a gripe session about Mr. Bush's passivity during his monthlong vacation. 
Republicans said the session began with a grim polling presentation from David Winston, a Republican consultant. The presentation showed that more people now believed that the nation was heading in the wrong direction than in the right one. Support for Congressional Republicans is slipping as next year's election approaches, the survey found.
Particularly worrisome to the Republicans was evidence that voters ages 55 to 64 were defecting from the party in large numbers, because of declines in the value of 401(k) plans that many people are counting on to finance their retirements.
Mr. Winston was followed by Nicholas Calio, Mr. Bush's Congressional liaison. Republicans said Mr. Calio gave a pep talk about the president's economic plan, telling the group that the Bush agenda -- tax cuts, trade promotion and an energy plan -- was geared toward economic growth.
Then a string of Republicans rose to express frustration with the economy, and in some cases irritation with Mr. Bush's long vacation in Texas. Several Republicans said that Representative J. D. Hayworth of Arizona complained that it was hard for Mr. Bush to get his message out if the White House lectern had a "Gone fishing" sign on it. Mr. Hayworth's office declined to comment.
Mr. Calio said today that the White House had heard those concerns. 
"We're talking to our members," he said. "We're listening, and we're doing some thinking ourselves." 
But Congressional Republicans continued to describe Mr. Bush and themselves as on different political timetables for 2002 and 2004; they said they could not afford to wait to take action on the economy and the budget situation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush addressed a gathering yesterday at Justina Elementary School in Jacksonville, Fla., where he promoted his education program. (Associated Press)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); MEDICARE (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); CORPORATE TAX (63%); SALES REBATES (58%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ELECTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (85%); TRENT LOTT (78%); KENT CONRAD (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CONRAD, KENT (SEN); MITCHELL, ALISON; STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



310 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNING FOR MAYOR: MAYOR; 
Mayoral Candidates Crisscross City Seeking Last Few Votes

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS 

 BODY:
The six major candidates running to succeed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani ranged across the city yesterday in the final burst of politicking before the polls open today.
 Dodging late summer downpours, the candidates hit neighborhoods where they thought they might be able to eek out just a few more votes. Crossing and crisscrossing the boroughs -- sometimes missing one anothers' campaigns by just minutes -- it seemed as though the six candidates were out to shake every hand in the city. 
 And shake hands they did, in Bay Ridge and Pelham Bay, in Stuyvesant Town and on the Lower East Side, in Staten Island and Flushing. Most ran late, racing to overcome traffic and, in one case, a computer glitch, but all managed to finish this last frantic lap around the city they hope to govern.

Fernando Ferrer
Fernando Ferrer, the Democratic mayoral candidate, went in search of blessings yesterday, both divine and secular.
In Williamsburg, Mr. Ferrer sat amid a clutch of black-robbed Satmar rabbis, who in turn gathered around Moshe Teitelbaum, the group's Grand Rebbe. The Grand Rebbe said a few words in Yiddish, and his translator, Rabbi David Niederman, turned to Mr. Ferrer to deliver the news. 
"You asked for a blessing, and he's giving you his blessing," Rabbi Niederman told Mr. Ferrer, who donned a yarmulke for the occasion. "You have the caliber to be the next mayor." 
The Rebbe's nod did not amount to an official endorsement, but a beaming Mr. Ferrer promised to make the most of it just the same. "I'm grateful, Rebbe; thank you so much," Mr. Ferrer said, rising from his seat. "I need one." 
And so the day unfolded, as Mr. Ferrer, seeking to become the city's first Latino mayor, skipped across the city in a final furious run of campaigning.
In a 13-hour stretch, Mr. Ferrer shook hands on the Upper West Side, spoke to a group of the Hispanic elderly in the East Village, took an endorsement from about 35 clergymen in East New York and then worked his way through Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens with former Representative Geraldine Ferraro.
As he wended his way around New York, Mr. Ferrer's voice sounded tired, and his eyes bore a weary look. But at every stop, he shook off his exhaustion and summoned a final bit of campaign fervor.
"If I look a little tired, it's because I am," Mr. Ferrer told a raucous gathering in Manhattan of 1199/S.E.I.U., the health workers' union. "But I got plenty of gas left in the tank. And when I needed a fill-up, I came right here to 43rd Street. Now I'm pumped up!" 
The crowd whooped and clapped. And when Mr. Ferrer finished, Tina Turner's "Simply The Best" began to boomed through the loudspeakers. 
As steadily as a drumbeat, Mr. Ferrer sounded the main theme of his campaign: the need to serve New Yorkers alienated by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and left behind after a decade's worth of economic growth. He reiterated his plea for expanded after-school programs, a commitment by the city to build new housing and for an end to racial profiling by the police. 
 DEXTER FILKINS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RELIGION (68%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%) FILKINS, DEXTER; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



311 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Qwest to Cut 4,000 Jobs And Reduce Its Expenses

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
Qwest Communications, the operator of large fiber optic and local telephone networks, said yesterday that it would eliminate 4,000 jobs by the beginning of next year, adding to the woes of the telecommunications industry.
 Qwest's work force of 66,000 will be reduced 6 percent, with about a third of the cuts planned in or near Colorado, where Qwest is based, the company's chief executive, Joseph P. Nacchio, said. Slower economic growth in the western United States is one reason for Qwest's troubles, he said. 
 Qwest also reduced its spending and sales estimates. It expects revenue this year of $20.5 billion, down from earlier estimates of $21.3 billion to $21.5 billion. Next year, Qwest projects revenue to climb in the high single digits, down from earlier forecasts of a 14 percent to 15 percent increase. 
The company will cut spending by $300 million this year and $2 billion next year.
"In the last 30 days, we've seen more severe deterioration in the economy than almost anyone expected," Mr. Nacchio said in a conference call with investors.
The announcements initially unsettled investors in companies like Lucent Technologies, Nortel Networks and the Ciena Corporation, which sell equipment to Qwest. Communications equipment makers are already struggling with a steep decline in their revenue.
Qwest's move illustrates how the rapid expansion of communications networks in the late 90's has resulted in an excess of fiber optic capacity on these systems. Companies like Qwest that sell or lease capacity on their networks to large corporations are faced with plunging prices for that network space.
Fortunately for Qwest, it is more diversified than competitors that focus almost exclusively on selling bandwidth capacity. In addition to a 25,500-mile fiber optic network in North America, Qwest is the nation's fourth-largest long-distance phone company and one of the largest local phone companies with its purchase of U S West in 1999.
Investors responded enthusiastically to Qwest's announcements yesterday, pushing its shares up nearly 10 percent, or $1.76, to $19.90. Optimism over more prudent capital expenditures appeared to be the main reason. So far this year, Qwest's stock has declined 51 percent. 
"I'm glad that Qwest is finally becoming more conservative in its forward thinking," said F. Drake Johnstone, an analyst at Davenport & Company. "There was some valid concern recently that they were artificially inflating revenue."
Mr. Johnstone and telecommunications analysts from Morgan Stanley recently expressed concern over the way Qwest recognized nearly the entire amount of sales from 20-to-25-year leases upfront, instead of amortizing the amounts, effectively allowing the company to increase revenue on its balance sheet.
A Qwest spokesman, Tyler Gronbach, said that generally accepted accounting practices required the company to report revenue in such a way.
Another source of uncertainty for Qwest lies in the uneasy fortunes of Royal KPN, the largest phone company in the Netherlands. KPN, which is under pressure to reduce its debt, owns KPNQwest, a provider of broadband communications services in Europe, together with Qwest. 
In July, Qwest wrote down about $3 billion from its investment in KPNQwest as problems in European telecommunications and Internet industries worsened.
Over the weekend, KPN effectively ousted Paul Smits as chief executive after the company's share price had plunged more than 90 percent under his leadership. Page W1. 
In very heavy trading in Amsterdam yesterday, Royal KPN gained 10.5 percent, or 0.25 euro, to 2.63 euros, or $2.37. KPNQwest rose 7.1 percent, to 4.95 euros, or $4.45.
There is speculation that KPN may try to sell its stake in the jointly owned company. Any sale would largely depend on decisions made by Qwest because it has the right of first refusal to buy its Dutch partner's stake if KPN decides to leave the venture.
Qwest declined to comment yesterday on whether it had reached a decision to buy KPN's stake or allow it to sell to another party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); BANDWIDTH (73%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (56%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; FIBER OPTICS 

COMPANY: CENTURYLINK INC (92%); CIENA CORP (84%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (68%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); DAVENPORT & CO LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: QWEST COMMUNICATIONS CORP 

TICKER: CTL (NYSE) (92%); CIEN (NASDAQ) (84%); ALU (PAR) (68%); ALU (NYSE) (68%); ALU (BIT) (68%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2001 



312 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: A DAY OF TERROR: THE ECONOMY; 
A Tragedy Adds More Confusion To the Outlook For U.S. Economy

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The World Trade Center tragedy canceled all forecasts about the American economy. And whatever happens next in the United States, in turn, will inevitably affect the global economic outlook.
 Until yesterday, the economy's future -- whether it would revive or dip into recession -- rested on whether layoffs would inhibit consumer spending, whether business investment would revive, whether home construction and home prices would stay up. Now, what happens next to the American economy depends on how the public reacts to yesterday's terrorism, economists said. 
 The big issue, beyond the huge initial costs of repairing damage caused by the attack, centers on whether American consumers might stop spending until they know who is responsible for the assaults and whether they might happen again.
"Uncertainty causes people to seek information and suspend their judgment, and I think that will affect buying behavior initially," said Richard T. Curtin, director of consumer surveys at the University of Michigan. "People are going to be fearful of public places for a while, and they are going to stop going to car dealerships and malls. And that is likely to cause a decline in consumer spending."
In the past, cataclysmic events often affected the economy's direction. The Persian Gulf crisis, for instance, with its war jitters and higher oil prices, helped to bring on the 1990-1991 recession, while Pearl Harbor forged a national consensus to spend huge amounts of money to defeat Germany and Japan -- and the economy boomed. This cataclysm, however, is different: No one yet knows who the enemy is or what the group, or groups, may do next.
"I was in London when it was bombed in World War II, but I don't think I saw anything like this," said Peter L. Bernstein, a consultant and author. "You expected the blitz to happen in London, but you don't expect this sort of tragedy to happen in this country, in this magnitude, without being able to see an enemy."
That changes the economic debate. Preserving the budget surplus is now likely to fade as an issue, several economists said, as the government makes a priority of repairing the damage and increasing security. Replacing what was lost at the World Trade Center is likely to cost billions of dollars -- not only in new buildings, but in reopening or replacing the numerous companies whose personnel were injured or killed and whose records were destroyed.
Although the rebuilding of the Pentagon and of offices in southern Manhattan could lift both the New York and Washington economies, the amount spent -- in the low billions -- would have relatively little effect on the $10 trillion national economy. 
Beyond the physical damage, big segments of the economy are likely to be frozen for a few days or a week. Among those facing the largest losses are Wall Street firms, because the financial markets are closed. In addition, the airline industry faces tens of millions dollars in refunds to passengers unable to travel while aircraft were grounded. FedEx and United Parcel Service also were grounded yesterday.
In interviews with a dozen economists, most were reluctant to speak for the record about the economy on a day of such tragedy. "I feel like there is so much human tragedy, you do not want to be thinking analytically or rationally about this," said James Glassman, chief domestic economist for J. P. Morgan Chase. "But we know that soon we are going to have to think about the economy."
Mr. Glassman and a few other economists were optimistic. "This is going to make America, and the civilized world, be defiant," Mr. Glassman said. "People are going to see this as a threat to the civilized world, and good things are going to come out of it."
That was certainly the reaction to Pearl Harbor, on Dec. 7, 1941, a Sunday. Stock prices fell steeply at first but recovered as the nation mobilized. The recovery, however, is not likely to come as easily this time, Mr. Glassman said. "We are likely to be in shock and mourning for several weeks, and that means volatile markets and less consumption," he said.
The American economy has been weakening for a year. The gross domestic product barely grew in the second quarter, and in recent days, forecasters have been lowering their estimates of economic growth for the third quarter to an annual rate of less than 1 percent. The unemployment rate shot up to 4.9 percent in August from 4.5 percent in July -- a rise that shocked the markets. 
Before yesterday's tragedy, the Federal Reserve's policy makers were widely expected to lower interest rates at their October meeting for the eighth time this year. They may now step up that schedule. Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, was flying home from a meeting in Switzerland when the terrorists struck, and his plane was turned back. But the Fed issued a reassuring statement noting in effect that it would supply credit as needed.
The lower rates had helped to sustain consumer spending, but now mood and psychology will almost certainly become crucial, said Humphrey Taylor, chairman of Louis Harris & Associates, the polling firm. 
"I have no idea whether people will stop spending," he said. "I'm told by my wife that there is a zoo in the supermarket; people are buying up everything because they think the world is coming to an end. They could decide the economy is already weak and they should hunker down. Or they could rally round the flag, come together, and come out of this stronger and more united." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); HIJACKING (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (55%); NEW CAR DEALERS (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (74%) UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



313 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 382 words

PERSON: Joseph S. Berliner 

HEADLINE: Joseph Berliner, 79, Professor and Author on Soviet Economy 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Joseph S. Berliner, a longtime Brandeis University economics professor credited with helping spur changes in the Central Intelligence Agency's methods of appraising the Soviet economy, died on Sept. 2 at a Boston hospital. He was 79 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
 The cause was complications after surgery, said Barney K. Schwalberg, a Brandeis colleague. 
 Dr. Berliner was one of the most influential of the early American experts on the Soviet economy after World War II.
In 1991 he was on a panel of nongovernmental experts on the Soviet economy created by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence to review the C.I.A.'s estimates of Soviet economic growth and defense expenditures from 1970 to 1991. The Soviet Union was formally dissolved in December 1991. 
Dr. Berliner agreed with the panel's conclusions that the C.I.A.'s estimates of major Soviet economic statistics were not worse than those produced by independent scholars but that the agency's estimates of Soviet defense expenditures suffered from lack of contact with outside experts on that subject.
The panel's chairman, James R. Millar, professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, said the C.I.A. had made changes in its methods in response to the panel's findings, including increasing contacts with academia and other outside agencies, like the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the private research agency Plan Econ.
At Dr. Berliner's death he was a research associate at the Davis Center for Russian Studies at Harvard.
A native New Yorker, Joseph Scholom Berliner grew up in the Rockaway Beach section of Queens. He received bachelor's and master's degrees and his doctorate from Harvard and taught at George Washington and Syracuse Universities before moving to Brandeis, where he taught from 1963 to 1985. His books include "Factory and Manager in the U.S.S.R." (1957, Books on Demand), "The Innovation Decision in Soviet Industry (1976) and "Soviet Industry from Stalin to Gorbachev" (1988, Cornell University Press).
He is survived by his wife, Ann; two sons, Paul, of Evanston, Ill., and Carl, of Jerusalem; a daughter, Nancy Berliner of Manhattan; two sisters, Ruth Schargel of Delray Beach, Fla., and Edna Berkowitz of Phoenix; and five grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); WRITERS (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

BERLINER, JOSEPH S (PROF); PACE, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



314 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: A DAY OF TERROR: THE MARKETS; 
Stocks Tumble Abroad; Exchanges in New York Never Opened for the Day

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS and JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Financial markets plunged in two hemispheres before trading was halted yesterday after the attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center and damaged the Pentagon.
 American stock markets did not open and will remain closed today. It will be the first time that news has kept the New York Stock Exchange closed for two full days since the Great Depression. 
 The coordinated attacks caused traders to sell any assets that seemed at all risky. Stock prices in Europe plunged, as did those in Latin America before trading was halted. Gold and crude oil prices leaped as investors speculated that the attacks might be related to Mideast tensions. 
Stunned traders, some mourning friends who worked in the World Trade Center and are presumed dead, talked of their worries that the attack would further damage an already fragile world economy.
But there was little certainty, reflecting the fact that nothing like yesterday's coordinated terrorist attacks had ever been seen.
Trading did continue in currencies, and the dollar fell in value against the euro, the British pound and the Japanese yen. "There is a fear now that the U.S. is vulnerable in a way it never has been before," said Jeremy P. Fand, a foreign exchange strategist at UBS Warburg.
In Europe, the falls in major stock markets ranged from 4.6 percent in Spain to 8.5 percent in Germany. The German market had a small recovery from its lows before it closed, but there was no rebound in most European markets.
Still, some hoped those falls would be temporary. "The Americans have an incredible resilience," said David Donnelly, who runs a London-based hedge fund, Gordon House Asset Management. "They will come back from this hard and fast," he predicted, assuming that President Bush "is seen to be a real leader and takes extremely tough action."
The terrorist attacks came on a day when markets around the world were advancing, after the American market stabilized the day before. But they also came at a time when there was talk of the first global recession in a quarter century. No one was certain how the terrorism would affect markets and economies in coming months, but there was concern.
"The world was looking for the United States economy to recover later this year and help the global economy get back on its feet," said Michael Taylor, an economist with Merrill Lynch in London. "Suddenly, everything that seemed well established has been blown out of the water," he added.
American consumers have so far remained relatively optimistic as the economy has slowed, and there were concerns that they would pull back, further slowing the economy. "What's going to happen to the economy in the next 30 days?" asked one economist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "Are you going to get on an airplane?"
But some recalled that market reactions to horrid news are often excessive. "It's a little early for a forecast on this," said Barton Biggs, the chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley, speaking from the company's offices in midtown. "We're probably getting an overreaction in Europe. Do I think this is going to change the world economy? No, I do not."
Charles Clough, a Boston-based money manager who runs Clough Capital, agreed. "It's an $11 trillion economy," he said. "My guess is that after an initial shock, there will not be a lot of effect on the economy or markets."
Even where trading continued, as in currencies, there was not much volume. "I think most people are stunned," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn. "I don't think people want to get in and take advantage" of the tragedy, he added. "It's too devastating to put into terms of profit and loss."
The first plane crash into the World Trade Center was at first seen by many as an accident, but it still caused American stock index futures, which were trading, to plunge. Futures on the Standard & Poor's 500 index, which were trading a little above 1,100, fell to as low as 1,066.
The major market for United States government bonds is through Cantor Fitzgerald, a brokerage firm based in the World Trade Center. "The Cantor screen went blank immediately," said Paul Devlin, a proprietary bond trader for Fuji Securities in New York. 
There was limited trading for a time through competitive systems, with bond prices rising as investors sought safety. But after the second plane hit the World Trade Center, said a trader who asked not to be named, he decided to stop providing prices at which his firm would trade. "I was not going to put our firm at risk at a time like this," he said. The Bond Market Association soon recommended that trading be halted, and last night said there would be no trading today.
After the first plane hit the World Trade Center, Richard Grasso, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, talked to Harvey Pitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and they agreed to delay the opening of stock trading. After the second plane hit the center, trading was canceled for the day by both the Big Board and Nasdaq. Other financial markets also canceled trading.
In an interview last night, Mr. Pitt said he hoped that trading would resume soon, but did not give a date. One issue, he said, was when it would be appropriate to trade after such devastation. The other was a practical one, concerning physical dislocations for many firms. "Our markets are very resilient," he said. "People are moving rapidly to get them reopened."
The New York Stock Exchange has suffered prolonged closures only twice in its history, at the beginning of World War I, from July 31 to Nov. 14, 1914, and from March 4 to March 14, 1933, when banks were closed to allow regulators time to determine which banks had failed.
On Friday, Nov. 22, 1963, the market closed early, at 2:07 p.m., after President John Kennedy was assassinated. By then, the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen 2.9 percent. The market remained closed on the following Monday, when the funeral was held, and rallied sharply when trading resumed the next day.
If there was a haven of strength in the markets yesterday, it was in oil. In London, the price of Brent crude for November delivery jumped to $28.87 a barrel, up $1.50. In Paris, the big winner was TotalElfFina, the French-Belgian oil company, whose share price rose almost 4 percent even as the overall French stock market plunged 7.4 percent.
Gold also got a boost. At the afternoon fixing in London, the price leaped $15.50 to $287 an ounce. 
The worst-hit stocks in many markets were airlines and insurance companies. British Airways fell 21 percent, while Lufthansa was down 14 percent. AXA, the large French insurance company, fell 12 percent on the expectation of large claims in the wake of the attacks.
While the dollar was weak against major currencies, falling to 119.20 yen from 121.04 the previous day, and seeing the euro rise to 91.5 cents from 89.8 cents, it strengthened against Latin American currencies. The Brazilian real fell to a record low of 2.66 to the dollar, up from 2.61, while the leading Brazilian stock index plunged 9.2 percent before trading was halted. The Mexican stock market was down 5.6 percent as the peso also weakened. All the major Latin markets were closed early.
In Argentina, whose currency is tied to the dollar, the leading stock market index fell 5.2 percent. Having recently received another rescue package from the International Monetary Fund, Argentina needs to attract foreign investors, and there was fear that a world suddenly hesitant to take risks would pull back.

GRAPHIC: Photos: San Francisco's downtown financial center was deserted, touched by the panic in the Wall Street district. Many businesses closed as a precaution. (Reuters)(pg. C6); Stunned, a trader on the German stock exchange watched the DAX index slide after the collapse of the two World Trade Center towers in New York. The German exchange ended 8.5 percent lower yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1) Charts show stock, oil (European benchmark, contract for November delivery), and the Dollar's activity yesterday (from 4 a.m. to 2 p.m.) All times are Eastern.(Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (79%); FUTURES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); RECESSION (76%); AIRLINES (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); BONDS (73%); EURO (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); BRITISH POUND (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOLD; CURRENCY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; EUROPEAN UNION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%) SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) ;NORRIS, FLOYD; FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%) EUROPE; LATIN AMERICA; GERMANY; SPAIN

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



315 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: A DAY OF TERROR: THE FEDERAL RESERVE; 
The Financial World Is Left Reeling by Attack

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Concerned that the terrorist attack could ignite economic and financial problems in the United States and around the world, the government scrambled today to reassure markets and keep a global slowdown from becoming something worse.
 Within hours of the attacks in New York and Washington, the Federal Reserve issued a statement saying it was operating as normal and was making credit available to banks that might need it. 
 There was immediate speculation that the Fed would move soon, perhaps within days, to cut interest rates, as it has in the past when the markets and the economy have faced a crisis. The Fed has already cut rates seven times this year in an effort to bolster the economy.
Banks reported no major problems today, and the financial markets were closed, masking what could be considerable difficulties whenever they reopen. By mid-afternoon, regulators had decided, in consultation with the major markets and investment houses, to keep markets closed again on Wednesday and to review over the next 24 hours whether the markets could reopen on Thursday. 
Government officials and analysts said regulators were closely tracking a number of possible problems. They said they were concerned about a possible wave of selling in the financial markets and about the loss of computers, records and key personnel among investment firms with offices in the World Trade Center.
More broadly, they said, they were worried that the confusion and uncertainty generated by the attacks would put more pressure on the domestic and international economies.
Stock markets in Europe and Latin America fell sharply after the attack. The dollar fell sharply, and oil and gold prices surged. Those developments, if they continued, could ripple into the economy at a time when the United States -- and much of the rest of the world -- appears to be teetering on the brink of recession.
"This couldn't have come at a worse time from an economic point of view," said Robert E. Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, the research organization.
No one knows how the markets and the economy might react to the worst terrorist attack in the nation's history. Much could depend on how the markets respond when they eventually open. 
But even a sharp fall in the markets would not necessarily be a good indicator of the economy's path; the 1987 stock market crash, for example, never did lead to the recession that economists expected at the time.
Still, there was an undeniable air of crisis as economic policy makers, along with everyone else, worked through the shock of the attack and sought to keep the economic aftershocks from adding to the human toll of the day.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, were both out of the country at the time of the attack.
Mr. Greenspan was returning to Washington from Basel, Switzerland, where he had attended a meeting of the Bank for International Settlements, with William McDonough, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Fed officials declined to comment on Mr. Greenspan's travel plans, but news agencies reported that his commercial flight to the United States had returned to Switzerland.
Dave Skidmore, a spokesman for the Fed, said that Mr. Greenspan is "working and in communication" with the vice chairman Roger W. Ferguson Jr. and other officials. 
Mr. Skidmore said the Fed system had encountered delays in processing checks because of the cancellation of airline flights, but that otherwise there were no major problems.
Mr. O'Neill was in Tokyo, where he was preparing for discussions with Japanese officials. Treasury officials said Mr. O'Neill would remain in Japan "until further notice." Late in the day, they issued a statement in his name saying: "Our nation's financial markets are strong and resilient. In the face of today's tragedy, the financial system functioned extraordinarily well, and I have every confidence that it will continue to do so in the days ahead." 
Beyond any short-term response to market conditions, government officials confronted the likelihood that various policies would have to be revisited. Should the economy weaken further, Congress would be more likely to put aside the bipartisan pledge not to touch any of the Social Security surplus and to use some of that money to stimulate the economy through further tax cuts.
Despite the absence from Washington of Mr. Greenspan and Mr. O'Neill, government officials said there was close coordination throughout the day among the major regulatory agencies, including the Fed, the Treasury, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
While most of official Washington was evacuating its offices, senior officials activated an interagency committee that is formed whenever there is a crisis. The group, an outgrowth of the stock crash of 1987, is known as the President's Working Group on Financial Markets. It consists of officials from the Fed, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Treasury and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Members of the group spent the day juggling calls from trading exchanges and investment houses, and from other regulators concerned about the effects of the day's events. They also consulted with foreign markets which could become particularly volatile in the coming days.
At the Fed, Mr. Ferguson, the vice chairman, was the only board member in Washington. He held a conference call late this morning with many of the presidents of the Federal Reserve banks around the country.
In Switzerland, Mr. McDonough, who oversees the Fed's monitoring of the financial markets, spoke by phone with Wim Duisenberg, the head of the European Central Bank, and held 10 phone conversations with regulators in Washington and New York. The Fed's money transfer network -- the central nervous system of the financial markets -- operated normally, Mr. McDonough said.
"It is clear that the normal financial system in the U.S. has held up extraordinarily well," he said. "I think the central banking apparatus and the market apparatus knows how to function."
Officials on the interagency committee, however, identified a number of concerns involving the economy and stock exchanges that needed to be addressed.
Would the day's events shatter confidence in an already shaky market and lead to unacceptably volatile trading? Did the system have enough liquidity in the form of easy credit to assure that major houses would not buckle? And how would Wall Street be able to cope with the devastating destruction of the World Trade Center, which houses many crucial market players, including some offices of Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank.
By midday it became clear, officials said, that the stock and futures exchanges would need at least a second day to adjust, absorb the tragedy and assess when they might be ready to reopen.
"The markets do best when there is a free flow of information and people are fully informed," said Harvey Pitt, the new chairman of the S.E.C.. "One of the difficulties is that what happened just occurred. And if one wants people to make decisions that are based on all the information that's important."
Mr. Pitt said that executives on Wall Street and officials in Washington agreed that the needs of investors to have access to the markets were outweighed by the tragic circumstances, as well as concerns about the ability of the exchanges to get back on their feet so quickly.
"In a free market we do not want to unduly tie up the right of people to trade," he said. "But at a minimum, because of the tragedy and for regulatory reasons, it makes sense for people to take a step back and reach conclusions about the market. While I would not dictate to the markets what they should do, there is a consensus that tomorrow it would be inappropriate to trade."
Mr. Pitt said that his conversations with the exchanges and investment houses made it clear that "notwithstanding the incredible amount of damage, there are a variety of fail-safe mechanisms," like backup record-keeping operations, that will enable trading to resume. 
He said that on Wednesday, the exchanges -- in consultation with their members and with Washington officials -- would reassess when the markets should reopen.
Officials were only beginning to grapple with the long-term consequences. The mayor of Washington, Anthony A. Williams, said he was considering asking the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to postpone their annual meetings later this month. The meetings were expected to attract tens of thousands of protesters, along with 12 heads of state and 15,000 delegates from around the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); HISTORY (75%); AIRLINES (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); TRENDS (74%); FUTURES (73%); BONDS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; BANKS AND BANKING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; CURRENCY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GOLD; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; LABATON, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%) ; EUROPE; LATIN AMERICA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



316 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: A DAY OF TERROR: THE AIRLINES; 
For the First Time, the Nation's Entire Airspace Is Shut Down

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Minutes after two commercial jets slammed into the World Trade Center towers yesterday, the Federal Aviation Administration shut down the airspace over the United States to commercial traffic, the first time the government has taken such a drastic step. 
 All planes on the ground were immediately barred from taking off. Those in the air were given the option of continuing to their intended destinations or diverting to the nearest airport. Most airlines ordered their planes to land as soon as possible, placing thousands of passengers far away from where they intended to land. 
 Canadian officials quickly followed the F.A.A.'s lead, halting all commercial air departures from that country. The move cut off North America from a global economy that is increasingly lubricated by air travel. 
Late yesterday the F.A.A. said that the skies were clear and that air service would resume today at noon "at the earliest." 
The longer the grounding lasts, airline executives and aviation experts said yesterday, the harder it will be to get the airlines' complex networks of aircraft and crews back in sync. 
Airline officials were reluctant to speak for the record yesterday, citing a prohibition imposed on them by the F.B.I. But in the aftermath of yesterday's crashes, some executives worried about the damage the industry would incur at a time it is already suffering one of its worst business downturns. 
"How many people are going to want to get on an airplane after what they saw today?" asked one airline executive, insisting on anonymity. 
Some 4,000 to 4,500 airplanes were in the sky yesterday morning, according to the F.A.A. Hundreds more were on the ground waiting to take off. Parking the country's entire fleet of jets -- including those of cargo carriers like FedEx and United Parcel Service -- presented a logistical problem that airports and airlines had never before faced. 
"The ripple effect of this is amazing," said Dan McKinnon, president of North American Airlines, a charter company that operates out of Kennedy International Airport. "The parking space at all the various airports is going to be jammed. It's going to have a tremendous impact." 
Commercial jets are so expensive that airlines try to keep them in the air, earning money, as much as possible. Pilots and flight attendants are scheduled in concert with regulations limiting the number of hours that they can work without rest. 
Yesterday, many planes were forced to land in cities where their airline does not usually fly. There were no dedicated ground crews to serve them and no ready lists of hotels to house their crews and passengers. 
"The longer you are down, the more complicated it is going to be" to get back in the air, said one airline executive who insisted on anonymity. "Even right now it is more complicated. We have planes and people in the wrong place and crews that can't fly them because they have been on duty too long." 
For example, some of American Airlines' trans-Atlantic flights landed in Gander, Newfoundland, and Halifax, Nova Scotia. A US Airways flight bound for Seattle from Philadelphia landed at tiny Willard Airport in Illinois.
Continental Airlines said that more than 100 of its flights were diverted to alternate airports yesterday. Its flight from Hong Kong to Newark turned around over the Pacific and returned to Hong Kong. 
Many foreign carriers, like Air France and Lufthansa, also instructed flights bound for the United States to return to their departure airports. 
Many domestic airline employees, like most of the country, were in the dark yesterday about how and when air travel would resume. Airline call centers and information lines were busy, but there was not much information to share.
"As of now, we don't have a clue when and how the company is going to get things started again," said Sam Mayer, a spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association, which represents American's 11,000 pilots. "We have a lot of crews that are trapped in hotel rooms in many places. We are trying to take care of them." 
United Airlines and American also had to cope with the difficult job of notifying the families of passengers killed in the four plane crashes and helping authorities sort out what happened. But the freeze on air travel was hampering both their efforts to get people to the crash scenes. 
United announced that it was offering the families of victims on its flights $25,000 each to meet their immediate needs. It also said that it was sending people to Johnstown, Pa., and Manhattan, the sites of its two crashes. American said that it would also offer $25,000 payments to victims' families. 
All the airlines are required to refund the tickets of passengers who were unable to fly yesterday, said Terry Trippler, a travel agent who writes travel commentaries for the Web site OneTravel.com. Mr. Trippler said the requirement stemmed from the force majeure clause of ticket contracts, which went into effect with the nationwide grounding.
The refunds, the additional costs of caring for inconvenienced passengers and the loss of revenue as a result of the suspended flights will take a significant bite out of airline earnings at a time when most of the major airlines are already hurting. Only last week, American announced that it would lose substantially more money in the current quarter than it did during the second quarter. 
One airline executive who insisted on anonymity said the industry's woes were well illustrated by the relatively small number of passengers on the flights that crashed. The widebody 767 aircraft lost by United and American can hold up to about 250 passengers depending on the model and seating configuration; there were 56 and 81 passengers, respectively, on the two planes.
"It's really going to be a devastatingly tough time for the airlines," said David S. Stempler, the president of the Air Travelers Association, a passenger advocacy group. "This is going to be a big impediment. People are going to come up with a lot of reasons not to fly." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); TERRORISM (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (63%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (62%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%) FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (53%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (53%)

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



317 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
ANIXTER REDUCES SALESAND PROFIT FORECASTS FOR YEAR

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Anixter International Inc., which makes communications wire and cables, reduced sales and profit forecasts for the rest of this year and said it would cut 14 percent of its work force and close some warehouses. The company, which is based in Skokie, Ill., said it expected third-quarter profit, excluding some costs, of 18 cents to 20 cents a share. The company was expected to earn 50 cents by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call. Anixter cited slowing economic growth and fewer sales to telecommunications and technology companies. Customers are spending less, especially on expensive projects, Robert Grubbs, the chief executive, said in the statement. Anixter employs 5,000 to 6,000 people, the chief financial officer, Dennis Letham, said.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (88%); LABOR FORCE (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (83%); EXECUTIVES (82%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: ANIXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ANIXTER INTERNATIONAL INC 

TICKER: AXE (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423610 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT, WIRING SUPPLIES & RELATED EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%) SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: ROBERT W GRUBBS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



318 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: South Korea: More Development Urged 

BYLINE:  By Don Kirk (NYT) 

 BODY:
 President Kim Dae Jung called for overall economic development as the best antidote to declining exports to the United States, Japan and the European Union. Mr. 
Kim warned of growing economic difficulties while welcoming a new cabinet that he formed after the breakup of his ruling coalition last week. Korean manufacturers, he said, should not rely so heavily on export of products like semiconductors, whose fall on world markets is blamed for Korea's plummeting export figures. Several hours later, at a reception for the country's top business leaders, Mr. Kim said his government would remove some of the restrictions that they say have impeded them since the economic crises of 1997 and 1998. Don Kirk (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); TRENDS (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (85%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: KIM DAE JUNG (PRES); KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%) SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



319 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: The War Against America; 
The National Defense

 BODY:
As the nation assays the horrific human and physical losses of yesterday's brutally efficient terrorist attacks, it must also begin the urgent work of determining how an open and democratic society can better defend itself against a threat that conventional armies and weapons cannot defeat. 
 Terrorism is not new, but the scale and audacity of the attacks in New York and Washington make it obvious that familiar defensive strategies are inadequate and that the fight against terror must move from the periphery to the center of American national security planning and operations. An unconventional and frightening assault on the American homeland has commenced. The American people and their leaders must mobilize the resources to meet it. 
 This cannot be just another moment when the president declares that the United States is unbreakable, when American military forces strike back ineffectually and when airport security is tightened for a month or two. It must be the occasion for a fundamental reassessment of intelligence and defense activities. There must be an exacting examination of how the country can face this threat without sacrificing its liberties. 
The best defense against terrorism is good, timely intelligence. The Central Intelligence Agency and other organizations have enjoyed some quiet victories, but much more must be done to try to infiltrate terrorist groups and to track their activities and communications. No one suggests this is easy or inexpensive work, but for the nearly $30 billion that Washington spends on spying, the nation should know more about terror networks and their plots. If more money can be usefully invested in these efforts, it can be provided by Congress.
When retaliation is warranted, as it will be in this case once the organizers have been identified, Washington needs light but lethal weapons to attack terrorist compounds in remote locations. Cruise missiles can be effective, but even more accurate weapons may be needed that can be used in coordination with enhanced intelligence information.
When Washington has prepared to act in the past it has often been stymied by faint-hearted allies. Some of America's closest friends have found it more useful to do business with countries that have either supported terrorists on their soil, been indifferent to them or been too afraid to go after them. America must let its economic partners and allies know that they can no longer stay on the sidelines of this global conflict.
While the United States must retain its conventional and nuclear war-fighting machinery, the government needs to consider a reallocation of resources to homeland defenses against unorthodox threats. That was the largely ignored recommendation of a national commission headed by former Senators Gary Hart and Warren Rudman that early this year noted that the relative invulnerability of the nation to catastrophic attack could soon end because of terrorist threats. 
When all that suicidal terrorists need to crumble the twin towers of the World Trade center are airplane tickets from Boston to Los Angeles, it seems reasonable to wonder again why a missile shield should be Washington's highest priority.
Tightened airport security seems such a painfully obvious way to enhance homeland security after yesterday's strikes, all of which used hijacked commercial airliners as deadly weapons. A nation with the resources and technological skills of the United States can develop detection systems that are far more sophisticated than those normally in use today. Indeed, there are already machines that can detect plastic explosives and other non-metallic devices, but they have been installed in only a few airports because they are expensive and deemed an inconvenience. 
Americans must rethink how to safeguard the country without bartering away the rights and privileges of the free society that we are defending. The temptation will be great in the days ahead to write draconian new laws that give law enforcement agencies -- or even military forces -- a right to undermine the civil liberties that shape the character of the United States. President Bush and Congress must carefully balance the need for heightened security with the need to protect the constitutional rights of Americans. That includes Americans of Islamic descent, who could now easily became the target for another period of American xenophobia and ethnic discrimination. 
Terrorism is a global threat. Part of the challenge for the United States is to recognize that the roots of terrorism lie in economic and political problems in large parts of the world. The end of the cold war has brought a resurgence of ethnic hatreds that were often stilled by the superpower conflicts between East and West.
The United States must therefore be adroit as well as strong. It will not be easy to address religious fanaticism or the anger among those left behind by globalization. The distaste of Western civilization and cultural values that fuels terrorism is difficult to overcome.
Americans have long known that these resentments existed. The nation must now recognize and address the fact that hatred has turned into a malignant threat that can destabilize the underpinnings of the world economy and civil society. The World Trade Center was not just a symbol of American prosperity. It was an economic nerve center. 
As horrible as it is to imagine, the United States must also consider a future in which the assaults carried out yesterday may be overshadowed by even more lethal nuclear, biological or chemical attacks by terrorists. We have long known that these dangers could be part of our future. It is now clear they may be nearer than most people thought. A concerted national effort to remake the nation's defenses must begin immediately. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); ESPIONAGE (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); AIRPORTS (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); POLITICS (72%); AIRLINES (68%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; BOSTON (MASS); LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



320 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Education Page; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Fund Drive for Graduate Center

BYLINE:  By Karen W. Arenson (NYT) 

 BODY:
Now that the Graduate Center of the City University of New York has settled into its new home in the former B. Altman Building on Fifth Avenue at 34th Street, it is embarking on its first capital campaign. 
AMABEL B. JAMES, an economist, will be chairwoman of the fund-raising drive, and MARTIN E. SEGAL, the former chairman of Lincoln Center, will be vice chairman. The drive, which will seek to raise $30 million, will run through 2004. The money will be used for student fellowships, endowed faculty chairs, distinguished professorships, research programs and other projects. Established in 1961 as the doctorate-granting institution for all of City University, the center has 3,500 students. Karen W. Arenson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



321 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: A DAY OF TERROR: THE VIEW FROM THE PACIFIC; 
Markets Slide in Japan, New Zealand and Australia While Others Don't Open

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
The financial world had its first chance today to react in dollars and cents to the terrorist attacks in the United States as markets in some Asian and Pacific Rim countries opened for trading and braced for turmoil. Others decided to close for the day and watch and wait.
 The trend in early trading became apparent swiftly. Each market that opened sank precipitously in the first few minutes. 
 A deluge of sell orders choked the Tokyo Stock Exchange, delaying the opening, and when trading finally began, the benchmark Nikkei 225 index plunged by nearly 6 percent, plumbing depths well below the psychologically important 10,000 level; at the midday break, the market was down 5 percent. The broader Topix also fell sharply.
The disorderly start to the day came despite an early-morning announcement by the governor of the Bank of Japan, Masaru Hayami, that the central bank would take steps to keep money flowing smoothly, to maintain stability in Japan's financial markets and to deal with any disruptions in settling transactions. 
In New Zealand, the first market to begin the trading day, stocks plunged across the board at the opening, which had been delayed one hour by officials, who hoped to maintain orderly trading. The benchmark index fell by more than 5 percent in minutes before stabilizing at a loss of roughly 4.75 percent.
New Zealand's exchange lists few of what analysts thought were the most vulnerable stocks, like banks and airlines; Class B shares in Air New Zealand, the country's main airline, which has been in deep financial trouble for months, plunged 18 percent in early trading.
"We recognize the difficult position we were in," as the first exchange to open, said Bill Foster, managing director of the New Zealand Stock Exchange. But after consulting with markets in neighboring nations, Mr. Foster said, the exchange decided that the need for an open exchange to provide liquidity and market clearing was paramount.
Australia's market followed an hour later and did much the same, falling about 3 percent in the opening minutes; by midday, the losses were about 3.75 percent. Japan's markets were next to open.
Markets in Taiwan, Thailand and Malaysia decided not to open for the day. South Korea delayed its opening by three hours, to noon.
Currency markets were much calmer as trading began in Asia, with the dollar roughly steady against the yen. 
Soon after reports of the attacks on New York and Washington reached Asia, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill canceled two days of meetings with Japanese financial officials, cut short his Asian tour and headed home to the United States.
With Mr. O'Neill's mission to Asia cut short, the spotlight has abruptly swung away from what had been seen in Washington as one of the most pressing threats to global economic recovery, the huge bad-debt problems weighing down the Japanese banking system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); AIRLINES (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BONDS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); NZX LTD (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); NZX (NZX) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%); AIZ (ASX) (54%); AIR (NZX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: BILL FOSTER (50%) BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (94%); NEW ZEALAND (94%); ASIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); TAIWAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



322 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Porsche Reports 18% Increase in Earnings 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: STUTTGART, Germany, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Porsche's fiscal full-year earnings rose 18 percent on demand for the new 911 Turbo and Boxster sports cars. The current-year outlook is "positive," said the company, which has the highest profit margin among carmakers. 
 Pretax profit was more than 1 billion deutsche marks ($459.8 million) in the period ended July 31, compared with 848.5 million marks a year earlier. Sales rose 20 percent, to 8.5 billion marks. 
 The carmaker is increasing profit and sales, as are competitors Bayerische Motoren Werke A.G. and DaimlerChrysler A.G.'s Mercedes-Benz unit, even in the face of economic slowdowns in their biggest markets, the United States and Germany. Porsche's new 911 Turbo costs 240,000 deutsche marks.
The company's pretax profit margin was 12 percent in fiscal 2001, the highest of any carmaker, and about the same as the year earlier even though the company has been investing in a new model, the Cayenne sport utility vehicle, and a factory to build it in Germany.
The carmaker said unit sales rose 12 percent, to 54,586 vehicles in the last fiscal year.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORTS CARS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (54%) COMPANY REPORTS; SALES 

COMPANY: PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (93%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (84%); DAIMLER AG (71%)

ORGANIZATION: PORSCHE AG 

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (93%); BMW (FRA) (84%); BMW (BIT) (84%); DAI (FRA) (71%); DAI (BIT) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (84%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



323 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: A DAY OF TERROR: THE MILITANT; 
America the Vulnerable Meets a Ruthless Enemy

BYLINE:  By JOHN F. BURNS 

 BODY:
America the vulnerable.
 Since the end of the cold war in the early 1990's, there have been two Americas, existing side by side: the America that is the world's only superpower, dwarfing every other nation in its economic and military might, and the America that learned in one deathly hour on Tuesday that no amount of power can provide protection against an enemy with limited means but a ruthless determination. 
 For years that vulnerability has been a concern of defense experts in the Pentagon and elsewhere who have studied what some have called "asymmetric warfare" -- a 21st-century phrase for a concept that has been around in warfare since David and Goliath and has found its most menacing expression in the modern world in the suicide bomber.
But it has also been studied, and celebrated, by many of the terrorist groups that will now be on the list of suspects in the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
One of those certain to be high on that list, Osama bin Laden, has made America's helplessness in the face of terrorism a rallying cry, one he has used repeatedly to taunt the United States and to draw new recruits to his ranks of suicide bombers. People close to Mr. bin Laden in Afghanistan, where he lives, today denied responsibility for the attacks. 
The theme of American helplessness, applied as often to Israel as to the United States, is common among the leaders of Islamic militant groups like Mr. bin Laden's Al Qaeda, as well as two groups that operate in the Palestinian territories, Hamas and Islamic Jihad, and the Iran-backed Hezbollah, which operates from Lebanon.
Although investigators may well absolve these groups of the New York and Washington attacks, there is little doubt that the officials will be examining the threats that the leaders have issued against the United States. None of the threats is likely to draw more attention than what Mr. bin Laden had to say about America's susceptibility to terrorism in a two-hour videotape delivered to a Kuwaiti newspaper this summer.
On the tape, which proliferated rapidly on Islamic Web sites and in mosques and bazaars across the Muslim world, Mr. bin Laden seemed to gloat as he spoke in Arabic of future attacks on American targets that he said would dwarf those he has directed in the past. "With small capabilities, and with our faith, we can defeat the greatest military power of modern times," he said at one point. "America is much weaker than it appears."
At one point, the Saudi Arabian-born Mr. bin Laden seemed to hint at a suicide attack in the United States. Over pictures of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the Egyptian-born Muslim cleric who is serving a life sentence in the United States for his role in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, Mr. bin Laden described the cleric as "a hostage in an American jail." He added, "We hear he is sick, and that the Americans are treating him badly." Then, addressing his followers, he shifted straight into an exhortation to martyrdom. "You will not die needlessly," he said. "Your lives are in the hands of God." 
Since the tape surfaced in June, there have been other hints that a new bin Laden attack might be imminent. Abdel Bari Atwan, editor in chief of Al Quds al Arabi, an Arabic-language newspaper published in London that has kept a close watch on Mr. bin Laden and his pronouncements, said today in an interview with the BBC that Islamic militants in touch with the newspaper had hinted that a major attack was under preparation, without giving any hint of when or where.
Elsewhere on the tape, Mr. bin Laden called on his followers to prepare new suicide attacks to avenge Palestinians who have been killed in the past year's violence with Israel, Without specifying whether those attacks would be mounted against Israeli targets or elsewhere. 
At first, when the bin Laden tape surfaced it attracted only passing attention, partly because large passages were spliced from earlier bin Laden interviews and tapes.
But intelligence officials in Washington see it as the fullest exposition yet of the bin Laden strategy, and a rough road map to where Al Qaeda, his group, might be headed. 
One of the characteristics that has set Mr. bin Laden aside among terrorist leaders has been the way he has coupled the furtiveness inherent in his deadly trade with warnings that new attacks may be in hand.
On several occasions, he has done this by releasing tapes or interviews alluding to new attacks shortly before they have been carried out.
He did this with a tape that surfaced in the Middle East shortly before two Arab-speaking suicide bombers in a fiberglass skiff attacked the American destroyer Cole last October in Aden harbor in Yemen, killing 17 American sailors. In the latest tape, he promised that the Cole attack was only a preliminary to new strikes. Although recent weeks have seen the State Department issue a flurry of alerts, and temporarily close several embassies considered possible targets, experts were not convinced that the tape presaged a major strike, partly because much of it had been taken from tapes made as much as three years ago.
On the tape, Mr. bin Laden read a chilling poem with themes that have a powerful resonance among Muslims with the grievances against America.
Principal among these grievances is Israel, and the support it draws from the United States -- a shift in emphasis, according to intelligence experts. In the past, Mr. bin Laden, one of more than 50 children of a Yemeni-born migrant who made a vast fortune building roads and palaces in Saudi Arabia, has made his principal obsession driving American troops from the Arabian peninsula, site of Mecca and Medina, Islam's holiest sites.
But this time, "purifying" the holy places seemed to take second place behind supporting Palestinians. Over scenes of some of the harshest incidents, like footage of a young Palestinian boy shot in his father's arms as they sought shelter from crossfire in Gaza, Mr. bin Laden urges the killing of Americans and Jews: "We will see again Saladin carrying his sword, with the blood of unbelievers dripping from it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE VIGILS -- Candlelight vigils were held yesterday in Tirana, Albania, left, and outside the American Embassy in Moscow for those who were killed in New York and at the Pentagon. President Vladimir V. Putin called for a coordinated international response to terrorism. (Agence France-Presse left , Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); COLD WAR (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); AL-QAEDA (88%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); HAMAS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); HIJACKING (73%); SENTENCING (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) BURNS, JOHN F 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (74%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ALBANIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



324 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
NEIMAN MARCUS REPORTS$20.6 MILLION LOSS

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 The Neiman Marcus Group Inc. posted a $20.6 million fourth-quarter loss yesterday, in contrast to a year-earlier profit, and said its first-quarter same-store sales would suffer because of the soft economy. The Dallas-based retailer, which operates Neiman Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman luxury stores, said that because of the economic environment, it expects first-quarter same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least one year, to fall 1 percent to 3 percent, while September same-store sales could slip below that rate. Neiman Marcus said its loss for the quarter, which ended July 28, was $20.6 million, or 44 cents a share, in contrast to a profit of $10.1 million, or 21 cents a diluted share, a year ago. 





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME STORE SALES (92%); RETAIL SALES (92%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (98%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



325 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: A DAY OF TERROR: THE VICTIMS; 
Companies Scrambling to Find Those Who Survived, and Didn't

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIFNER and AMY WALDMAN

 BODY:
The businesses whose presence in the World Trade Center seemed to symbolize economic potency scrambled last night to find thousands of employees feared lost in the ruins. 
 Banks, law firms, insurance companies and investment houses set up special phone lines or posted notices on their Web sites, asking employees to call in. Each call brought relief; each hour of silence, dread. 
 Officials at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the largest tenant at the center with more than one million square feet, set up a command center and a special telephone line to try to trace the 3,500 employees who worked at the trade center. Two thousand of them worked on mid
range floors of 2 World Trade Center, one of the buildings that collapsed.
Company officials would not discuss any casualties last night. 
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey occupied about a dozen high floors in 1 World Trade Center, with an estimated 1,400 employees. Among those who had not been heard from at 10 last night were the executive director, Neil D. Levin; and its director of public safety, Fred Morrone, an official said. 
Marsh & McLennan Companies had about 1,700 employees on floors 93 through 100 of 1 World Trade Center. A notice on their Web site asked all World Trade Center employees to call a special phone number immediately. 
The Aon Corporation, the world's second largest insurance brokerage firm, had about 1,100 employees on floors 92 and 98 through 105. A spokesman, Stephen Ban, said last night, "We are literally contacting them one employee at a time." 
There was some good news. The law firm of Sidley, Austin, Brown & Wood said on its Web site that while its office in the center had been destroyed, preliminary information indicated there had been no casualties.
Jeff Lanka, a computer programmer for Bridge Information Systems, who walked down from the 58th floor of 1 World Trade Center, said that all but 2 of about 200 employees who worked in the building had been accounted for, and those two had probably not been in the building when the plane hit.
More ominous was the silence from Cantor Fitzgerald & Company, the leading brokerage firm in trading Treasury bonds, which was based on the upper floors of 1 World Trade Center. Its screens, found in many firms that trade Treasury bonds, went blank right after the plane hit the building. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The hospital auditorium at Jersey City Medical Center was turned into a treatment center yesterday for those who sustained minor injuries in the attack on the World Trade Center. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INSURANCE (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE LAW (89%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); WEB SITES (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (84%); SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (84%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); AON PLC (67%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); BRIDGE INFORMATION SYSTEMS INC (53%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (52%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (84%); MHM (LSE) (84%); AON (NYSE) (67%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (67%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



326 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: PLUS: CYCLING; 
Julich Joins Ullrich's Telekom Team

 BODY:
The American Bobby Julich signed a two-year contract with Deutsche Telekom, the German team announced yesterday.
 Julich, 29, Lance Armstrong's former teammate, finished third over all in the 1998 Tour de France. He then left the United States Postal team for Credit Agricole of France. Julich, who appears to be recovering his best form after a string of injuries, becomes the second former U.S. Postal rider to join Deutsche Telekom. The first was Kevin Livingston. 
 The Deutsche Telekom leader, Jan Ullrich of Germany, won the Tour de France in 1997 and has finished second three times - to the Italian Marco Pantani in 1998 and Armstrong the last two years. (Reuters)

ZABEL WINS STAGE 4 IN TOUR OF SPAIN: Erik Zabel of Germany won the fourth stage of cycling's Tour of Spain from Leon to Gijon, edging Oscar Freire of Spain in a sprint finish for his third consecutive stage victory.
 Santiago Botero of Colombia took the race leader's gold jersey from David Millar of Britain after a crash near the finish split the field. Botero now leads Millar by four seconds, with Pedro Horrillo of Spain another seven seconds back in third place.
 Tomorrow's fifth stage takes the riders into the mountains for the first time on a 101-mile journey from Gijon to Lagos de Covadonga. The race concludes Sept. 30 in Madrid. (Bloomberg News)

ITALIAN CYCLISTS BANNED FOR DRUGS: The Italian cyclists Dario Frigo and Marco Magnani were banned fro the sport for six months for possessing performance-enhancing durgs, the Italian cycling federation said yesterday.
 The police seized banned substances from their hotel rooms in an overnight raid at the Tour of Italy in June. Frigo, 27, second in the race at the time, was dismissed by his Fassa Bortolo team and later admitted taking banned drugs. Their suspensions come as the sport seeks to clean up its image following three years of revelations about drug taking by leading cyclists. This year's Tour de France produced just one drug-test failure among 189 riders.
 Frigo is unemployed, and Magnami rides for Alexia Alluminio, and Italian team. Four other Italian riders - Matteo Carrara and Renzo Mazoleni of Team Colpack-Astro, Daniele De Paoli of Mercatone Uno-Stream TV and Gabriele Massaglia of Lampre-Daikin - are under investigation on suspicion of possessing banned drugs, but their cases were postponed. No date has been set for a new hearing.
 Michele Ferrari, the Italian doctor who has worked with the Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong, awaits a Sept. 21 hearing. He is accused of procuring and supplying banned substances to cyclists. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ATHLETES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (90%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (90%); DTE (BIT) (90%); ACA (PAR) (58%); ACA (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (56%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (90%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001 



327 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Italy and Rest of Europe Differ on Rome Leader 

BYLINE:  By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

DATELINE: ROME, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
One of the first laws proposed after Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi took office would change how certain white collar crimes are prosecuted in a way almost certain to benefit the country's most famous defendant: Mr. Berlusconi.
 Of course, the prime minister, Italy's richest man, who has three accounting fraud cases pending against him, has never exactly been paralyzed by a preoccupation with appearances. 
 He owns much of the news media that cover his government, as well as the polling company that shows him with an unprecedented 70 percent approval rating. One of his lawyers is the member of Parliament who, as he puts it, "explained" the corporate crime legislation, expected to become law, to the parliamentary committee.
In the three months since Mr. Berlusconi took office, his effect on Italian political life has been outsized. He has not only quieted the uproar that followed police brutality during the Group of 8 meetings in Genoa, but has also used the violence and isolated incidents of terrorism in Italy recently to marshal support for his tough law-and-order agenda. 
Tonight, his minister of reforms, Umberto Bossi, of the rightist Northern League, suggested that the terrorist attacks on the United States had proven the Berlusconi government right in its more authoritarian line. "One could sense that terrorism was coming back," he said.
Mr. Berlusconi has also signaled his intention to engineer a series of fundamental legal and social changes -- adding criminal penalties for illegal immigration for the first time, for instance, and financing private schools in a way that is now unconstitutional.
In a Europe governed mainly by the center-left, Mr. Berlusconi's moves have caused a stir. There is suspicion of his methods, and there is concern about his mingling of political and business interests.
"He's very authoritarian, and that's creating a lot of problems for Italy," said Gert Weisskirchen, foreign policy spokesman for legislators from the Social Democratic Party of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany. 
"The whole European style of democracy demands a clear separation of political power from the power of the media, but he's thrown out that rule, and put the whole framework of Italian democracy in danger."
James Walston, a professor of political science at the American University of Rome, said, "The rest of Europe is extremely worried, but not quite sure how to respond and hesitant to criticize too forcefully after their experience with Haider," the far-right Austrian Jorg Haider. 
Last year the European Union imposed sanctions on Austria after Mr. Haider's party joined the government, but the effort backfired, uniting humiliated Austrians against what they saw as their meddling neighbors.
Italians are already hunkering down in the face of foreign criticism.
Such references as a recent one in the British daily The Guardian, calling Mr. Berlusconi and his ministers "Italy's telegenic ancient mariner and his 'post-Fascist' crew," are being written off as anti-Italian. "People using that language are the victim of some prejudice," said Marcello Pera, the well-spoken president of the Senate, who is a member of Mr. Berlusconi's party, Forza Italia. 
Mr. Pera said Italians were willing to wait and see what the government actually does rather than being upset by rumors and slurs.
Mr. Berlusconi, meanwhile, is working mostly from off stage, leaving his deputies to float various proposals and sometimes to take the blame for them. He himself appears in public only rarely, exuding confidence and repeatedly referring to himself as Italy's paterfamilias.
Alessandra Mussolini, the granddaughter of the former Fascist dictator, who is outspoken on women's issues, says nobody minds.
"You know, people want the father," she said. "Yes! So Berlusconi is doing well."
Elsewhere in Europe, Mr. Berlusconi's apparently casual view of civil liberties has been seen as another unhappy reminder of why even Mr. Bossi, the formerly separatist Northern League leader, referred to Mr. Berlusconi as "Berluskaiser" back in 1994, the last time they were political partners.
But the prime minister seems to be relishing the opportunity to take a tough line. Last week, he announced that it was his duty, "as a good father of the family," to protect "holy" Rome from unruly demonstrators during a coming conference on global hunger.
This plan to move a planned world food summit meeting outside Rome reneged on a longstanding commitment to the Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome. But it was barely criticized inside Italy after Mr. Berlusconi said he would not allow a repetition of the anti-globalization protests in Genoa in July. He said he made the decision only after considering public opinion -- as measured by a survey conducted by his own polling company.
Later, one of Mr. Berlusconi's ministers explained that the plan was not only to move the meeting, but also to ban all demonstrations in the city while the meeting was going on.
Yet in Italy, the only forceful condemnation of the plan came from another member of Mr. Berlusconi's center-right coalition, who pointed out that the government could not suspend Italy's constitutional right to protest -- a scolding that ended the matter.
Much of the Italian public, though, remains not only outrage-free but openly admiring of even Mr. Berlusconi's conflicts of interest, which strike a lot of people as both irrelevant to them and a tribute to their top man's acumen.
Even the left, battered in the election in May, seems remarkably favorable to the new government.
In an interview, Francesco Rutelli, the opposition leader who lost to Mr. Berlusconi in the election, leaned back, crossed his foot -- sockless in a pair of blue suede loafers -- over his knee, and said he had seen nothing that concerned him.
"I don't think there's any authoritarian trend," he said.
"There are some worries, but if you ask people in a riot if they're in favor of the police or thugs, they'll say the police. And people do see immigrants as a bigger threat now."
Perhaps having lived through real authoritarianism, older Italians are less inclined than other Europeans to throw that word around. Certainly, they are used to living and thriving with a variety of governments and even, for long spells, no government.
Still, not everyone in the opposition is relaxed.
"He already has half the TV market, some print, plus book publishing houses, which makes it hard for us to speak to public opinion," said the former prime minister Massimo D'Alema. "If the mayor awarded himself the city's garbage collecting contract, he'd be arrested, but here we have all the political power, the economic power and the media power held by one person for the first time in a Western democracy."
Mr. D'Alema is also worried about the law on corporate crimes, passed by the lower house of Parliament but not yet by the Senate, which seems to benefit Mr. Berlusconi. It lowers the penalties for accounting fraud and raises the bar for prosecutors by forcing them to prove not only wrongdoing but also damage.
Even Gaetano Pecorella, Mr. Berlusconi's lawyer and the legislator who explained the proposed legislation in parliamentary committee, said it would probably help his client.
"The opposition has argued that this law was passed in order to favor Berlusconi," Mr. Pecorella said in a phone interview.
"This is, of course, not why the law was passed by Parliament," he said, "but it is true that a judge could, according to the new law, decide that since there is no clear damage done, these cases could be closed."
Mr. Berlusconi has also used the handful of bombs that have gone off around the country since the Genoa meeting to consolidate his political position. None of the bombs caused serious injury. After today's terrorist attacks in the United States, the government position is that it was ahead of the curve.
In a recent interview, Carlo Taormina, the under secretary of the interior and yet another Berlusconi lawyer -- better known for defending the former SS captain Erich Priebke for his role in the slaughter of hundreds of civilians outside Rome in 1944 -- said he saw the possible resurgence of terrorism in Italy as a real threat.
He said that "in the last years the climate has been somewhat lax" in monitoring potential terrorists, adding, "Organizations protesting against the state were not sufficiently controlled." He described the Genoa episode as "a call to arms" for terrorists, and added, "That's understood by the police and the security force."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, elected in May, is being criticized by some Europeans for his business dealings, for his ownership of much of Italy's news media and for what is considered his authoritarian style. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. B1); An antiglobalization protester tried to ward off club-swinging riot policemen in Genoa in July. Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has quieted the uproar that followed the police crackdown, and one of his cabinet ministers defended it yesterday, saying, "One could sense that terrorism was coming back." (Reuters)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); TERRORISM (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (56%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (92%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%) HENNEBERGER, MELINDA; BERLUSCONI, SILVIO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) ITALY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



328 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1552 words

HEADLINE: A DAY OF TERROR: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Awaiting the Aftershocks

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Today's devastating and astonishingly well-coordinated attacks on the World Trade Center towers in New York and on the Pentagon outside of Washington plunged the nation into a warlike struggle against an enemy that will be hard to identify with certainty and hard to punish with precision.
 The whole nation -- to a degree the whole world -- shook as hijacked airliners plunged into buildings that symbolize the financial and military might of the United States. The sense of security and self-confidence that Americans take as their birthright suffered a grievous blow, from which recovery will be slow. The aftershocks will be nearly as bad, as hundreds and possibly thousands of people discover that friends or relatives died awful, fiery deaths. 
 Scenes of chaos and destruction evocative of the nightmare world of Hieronymus Bosch, with smoke and debris blotting out the sun, were carried by television into homes and workplaces across the nation. Echoing Franklin D. Roosevelt's description of the attack on Pearl Harbor as an event "which will live in infamy," Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, a Republican, spoke of "an incredible outrage" and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a Democrat, spoke of "a dastardly attack." 
But mere words were inadequate vessels to contain the sense of shock and horror that people felt.
As Washington struggled to regain a sense of equilibrium, with warplanes and heavily armed helicopters crossing overhead, past and present national security officials earnestly debated the possibility of a Congressional declaration of war -- but against precisely whom, and in what exact circumstances? Warships were maneuvering to protect New York and Washington. The North American Air Defense Command, which had seemed to many a relic of the cold war, adopted a posture of heightened alert and suddenly seemed relevant.
Disappointing some of his political advisers and allies, who felt he should have returned to Washington at once from a trip to Florida to symbolize that the government was functioning, President Bush headed instead to Offutt Air Force Base near Omaha, where a more secure command post was available. At the height of the Cuban missile crisis, when the sense of danger was just as palpable, John F. Kennedy stayed in Washington.
The president flew back to Washington tonight, escorted by F-15 and F-16 fighters, as leaders of both parties closed ranks behind him with pledges of support and a stirring rendition of "God Bless America." In a brief, earnest televised speech, he said the day had taken "thousands of lives" and generated "a quiet, unyielding anger" in the nation. He promised that those who harbored terrorists would be treated as harshly as the terrorists themselves.
For Mr. Bush the attacks constituted a threat and an opportunity. A minority president, just a few months into his term, derided by many as intellectually inadequate for his job, he is likely to be judged, at least in the months ahead, on whether he can take command and act decisively.
Will he prove to be a Jimmy Carter, whose presidency was poisoned by his inability to resolve the Iranian hostage crisis? Or will he enhance his reputation, as Ronald Reagan did after the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger and as Bill Clinton did after the Oklahoma City bombing?
Samuel Popkin, a political scientist at the University of California at San Diego, who worked in the presidential campaign of Al Gore, said:"Many Americans have come to consider politics irrelevant in recent years. Now politicians matter again, and the president, in his role as commander in chief, becomes our focal point."
In a statement made at an air base in Louisiana, Mr. Bush said that "the resolve of our great nation is being tested" and pledged that the test would be met. He is being tested as well, far more severely than ever before.
Senator John McCain of Arizona, Mr. Bush's sometime Republican rival, said that he was confident the culprits would be caught and severely punished and that the president would "ensure something like this will never happen again." Together, the two men's comments set the bar very high -- perhaps too high.
No doubt the public will rise to the challenge as best it can; many of those in the buildings hit today reacted with almost supernatural calm. But Mr. Bush alone must decide how to retaliate and against whom, and he will be operating in a murky area. 
"This went far beyond anything we had expected," a senior intelligence official conceded. "We're better than we used to be at monitoring terrorist activities, but today makes it obvious we are not nearly good enough."
It follows, then, that preventing another attack will be very difficult. And while it is evidently easier to identify malefactors after an attack than it is to predict their activities, many experts cautioned against assuming, for example, that today's attacks were the handiwork of Osama bin Laden.
Even if Washington concludes that his organization or some other foreign terrorist group was responsible, devising an appropriate response will present a number of complications. For one thing, bombs and rockets tend to kill the innocent as well as the guilty. As a Democratic senator said, "You're likely to bomb a city or a village with 100 terrorists and end up with 400 or 500 when the warplanes have flown away."
Some strategists suggested that Mr. Bush might mount a ground attack on bin Laden's headquarters, which are believed to be somewhere in Afghanistan, much as Woodrow Wilson sent American troops into Mexico before World War I to capture Pancho Villa dead or alive. But they did not get him. And Afghanistan has proved resistant, throughout its history, to foreign forces trying to operate there.
If the United States develops solid evidence that any country aided the perpetrators of today's attacks, said Richard C. Holbrooke, ambassador to the United Nations under the Clinton administration, a declaration of war against that country might be appropriate and retaliation against it should certainly be undertaken in short order.
Another consideration is the attitude of the Middle Eastern oil states to any retaliatory attack by the United States, which remains uncertain.
Many Americans, particularly those old enough to remember Dec. 7, 1941, compared today's events to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. But then, after the first few minutes of confusion it was evident that the planes were Japanese -- they had military markings on their wings, instead of airline names on their fuselages, as was the case today. Militarily daring as the Doolittle raid on Tokyo months later may have been, there was no doubt that it hit the right target.
This was Pearl Harbor redux without the face of an enemy. In today's more anomalous situation, Mr. Bush is likely to avail himself more fully than he has to date of the knowledge, experience and prestige of his secretary of state, retired Gen. Colin L. Powell. The president "needs Colin like he's never needed him before," an administration official said.
It appears possible that the attacks will undercut Mr. Bush's campaign for a missile defense shield by suggesting that such a shield would concentrate American resources on seeking protection against the wrong kind of threat. People who wish the United States ill "don't need missiles to do this country harm," Professor Popkin argued, "and we saw that clearly this morning."
On the other hand, the attacks might persuade the American public that everything possible should be done, no matter what the cost, to protect the nation in any way possible.
It will be up to Mr. Bush to make that case. If he makes it well, it will be harder for the Democrats to mount a partisan assault on his plan.
It will be up to Mr. Bush as well, perhaps even more important, to keep the country from entering a kind of psychic bomb shelter, reluctant to make decisions, take chances, even to fly from one city to another after the four hijackings involved in today's campaign of terror. One of the most important contributions to Londoners' morale during the Battle of Britain was made by King George VI, who calmly toured the city despite the blitz.
Inevitably, the attacks will make daily life in the United States more complicated. Security will be tightened at private buildings and federal offices. Airport checks will be stricter and more frequent, requiring passengers to arrive earlier. In general, it will be harder to get about.
At past moments of national tension, like the Communist challenge following World War II, civil liberties have come under pressure. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, warned today that "if we alter our basic freedoms, our civil liberties, change the way we function as a democratic society, then we will have lost the war before it has begun in earnest."
And what of the nation's economy, the main preoccupation of Washington, the president and much of the nation until this morning? Although the stock market remained closed today, Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's counselor, was at pains to state at a briefing this afternoon that the rest of the economic system functioned normally. But it was by no definition a normal day, and sooner or later its hellish events are bound to affect the economy in some way -- probably not for the better.

GRAPHIC: Photos: With the first World Trade Center tower damaged and belching smoke, a plane heads toward the south tower.; Immediately after the plane achieved its goal, the south tower of the World Trade Center burst into flames. (Photographs by Frank J. DeNicola)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); COLD WAR (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (76%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); HELICOPTERS (64%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN F KENNEDY (74%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) APPLE, R W JR; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); OMAHA, NE, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001 



329 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Designers Say Knotty Is Nice 

BYLINE:  By FRED BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
THE big debate began -- as debates often do -- with the decision to save money.
 When it was time for Martha Pilgreen, a Boston architect, to panel the walls of her new weekend house in Truro, Mass., on Cape Cod, she specified No. 2 pine -- the kind with knots. "Knotty pine costs half as much as clear," she noted. And Ms. Pilgreen, a modernist, planned to have the walls painted white. But after the boards were installed, her husband, K. Michael Hays, told her that he wouldn't mind leaving them unpainted. "I thought he was joking," said Ms. Pilgreen, who associated knotty pine with moosehead-adorned rec rooms of the 1950's. 
 Soon, Professor Hays, who teaches architectural theory at Harvard and is the adjunct curator of architecture at the Whitney Museum of American Art, was bringing home books on the Finnish architect Alvar Aalto, who occasionally designed with knotty wood -- in an effort to convince Ms. Pilgreen that nature's design could coexist with hers. 
"I wasn't having any of it," she recalled. 
Time was on Professor Hays's side (the house wasn't ready for painting), and so, it turned out, were friends of the couple. Over the summer, hordes of them, including prominent architects, voted on what the couple came to call the knotty-or-nice question. And guess which side won? 
"My friends deserted me," Ms. Pilgreen lamented. 
Knotty pine, the backdrop of so many spin-the-bottle games, is back. Tyler Brule, the editorial director of Wallpaper, chose a knotty pine room in Germany as a setting for a layout in the debut issue of his fashion magazine, Spruce. "Ten years ago, you could only use knotty pine ironically," Mr. Brule said. "Now, everyone's thinking Alpine chic." 
In what may signal a pendulum swing away from white-on-white modernism, or a return to homey comfort amid economic uncertainty, people who would have shuddered at knotty pine a couple of years ago are embracing the warm wood. Credit a recent crop of Swiss and Scandinavian designers for making, in Professor Hays's words, "natural wood modern again."
Suzanne Slesin, who has written books on the influence of modernism on interior design, now edits HomeStyle, which shows a knotty pine interior in its current issue. "More and more people are starting to ask themselves, 'What do I give up if I go totally modern?' " Ms. Slesin said. 
The producers of "The Deep End," a moody thriller set on the shores of Lake Tahoe, gave the heroine (played by Tilda Swinton) a home paneled in knotty pine. "It not only worked with Tilda's coloring, but it was a way of signaling domesticity," said David Siegel, one of the directors. 
The other director, Scott McGehee, joked, "It's nice to unconsciously become part of the zeitgeist." 
Knotty pine might be expected on Lake Tahoe. But the room in HomeStyle, decorated by Steven Gambrel, is on Georgica Pond in East Hampton. "It's got very sophisticated furniture, and the knotty pine brings a sense of comfort and coziness," Ms. Slesin said.
It is easy to decorate with knotty pine because "it gives character to a room and ties the other elements together," Mr. Gambrel said. "It's basically a golden hue, with ruddy highlights. So I picked up on the texture, using nubby linens, and filled the room with warm sepia tones." 
Gene Colandro, a New York interior designer, devised a barn-theme bedroom this summer for a 12-year-old equestrienne on the Upper West Side, with a custom-made knotty pine bed area and "hayloft," knotty pine furniture and even a knotty pine Venetian blind. 
After seeing the new issue of HomeStyle, Steve Knollenberg, an interior designer in Detroit, reconsidered plans to repaint the kitchen in his 1940's cabin on Lake Michigan, where knotty pine extends to a scalloped valance over the sink. He had painted the knotty pine in his living and dining rooms white, using an undercoating called Kilz (www.kilz.com), which prevents the resin in the knots from soaking through. But now he may leave the kitchen walls au naturel. "A couple of years ago, I wouldn't have considered it," he said. .
Mr. Brule, of Wallpaper, who is based in London, said he grew up in Canada with a bedroom suite of blond knotty pine, adding, "By the time I was 16, I didn't want to look at any of it." But that was 1,000 trends ago. These days, he says, he associates knotty pine with "security and familiarity." 
Mr. Brule has two knotty-pine homes, a lakeside cabin in Sweden and an apartment in St. Moritz, Switzerland. 
An architect he consulted took one look at the cabin and said, " 'We're going to paint all of the walls white and get rid of all this knotty pine,' " Mr. Brule recalled. "I said, 'Absolutely not.' I think he was under the impression that the Wallpaper editor would want something slinky. But I was seduced by the honey glow of the pine, exactly what you want when you escape the white plaster walls of London." 
In Switzerland, the architect David Marquardt is adding knotty pine to Mr. Brule's new apartment. Watching Mr. Marquardt work made him realize that "the first time around, there was a chunkiness, a clunkiness to knotty pine," Mr. Brule said. 
"This time, it's a lot lighter, and I don't just mean the hue," he added. "It's being treated with more respect." 
Professor Hays agrees, pointing out that in his house in Truro the knotty pine boards are carefully joined to create the flush surfaces characteristic of modern architecture. "It's really just a flat surface with a pattern, which is very contemporary. I kept arguing that knotty pine is what comes after white."
His friend Rodolfo Machado, a Boston architect, said: "It's a kind of modern architecture with polka dots. I like it." 
Professor Hays gives credit for the knotty pine revival to Scandinavian designers and Swiss architects like Peter Zumthor, who has integrated natural wood into stark modern designs. Mr. Brule said that the Swiss like pine because "it grows fast, it's a renewable resource." Internationally, he added, "architecture is having a Swiss moment."
For some, knotty pine is appealing not because it is chic but because it is cheap. In the 19th century, when fine wood was shipped from the Northeast to Southern ports, knotty pine was sent back north as ballast, said Frank Welles, who runs a wood-finishing company in Garnerville, N.Y. 
But one man's ballast is another's balustrade. Mr. Welles charged $30,000 to finish the knotty pine in a single room in Greenwich, Conn. His process takes months. "First I distress it, and then I sand it, and then I distress it again," he began. "Then I oxidize it. Then I sand it. Then I oxidize it again. Then I apply a clear coat of tung oil and then a color coat, and then I sand it, and then I come back and antique it with a color, and then I antique it again. And after that, there are two or three more finish coats." 
Certain clients, according to Mr. Welles, pay attention to the size of the knots. "Personally, I like a tight grain with the small, delicate knots," he said. 
Rob Atchley, president of New Mexico Timber and Viga in Albuquerque, said that pine has gotten knottier in recent years. He explained that knots form near the perimeter where limb meets trunk. As old-growth forests disappear and harvested trees become smaller, so does the amount of clear wood away from the perimeter.
Benjamin Nicholson, an architecture professor at the Illinois Institute of Technology, calls the knots Rorschach ink blots because the way people respond to them reveals their views of individuality and imperfection. "It's the culture of the blemish, which we think of as going against modernism's grain," he said. 
During a conference on Mies van der Rohe at Columbia University last week, Professor Nicholson pointed out that Mies liked to use marble veined like wood. "Mies," he declared confidently, "was a knotty pineist." 
Others say knotty pine simply responds to a yearning for something solid after the ethereal architecture of recent years. Ms. Pilgreen said she was certain that Mr. Machado, the Boston architect, would come down on the white-is-right side of the pine question. Instead, he praised the Scandinavian quality of the rooms. 
Mr. Machado's partner, Jorge Silvetti, chairman of the architecture department at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, had an idea: whitewash the walls up to the height of the fireplace mantel as a way of keeping the knots while adding some white surfaces to the architectural mix. To save the Pilgreen-Hays marriage, other architects suggested painting some rooms white while leaving some unpainted, creating a kind of zone system.
The knotty pine revival may have thrown Ms. Pilgreen for a loop, but Mr. Gambrel, the decorator, is reveling in it. "It's a humble material, but it gives a room instant character," he said.
Something a homeowner just can't get from wallboard.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SWISS MOMENT -- Spruce, a fashion magazine, warmed up to cozy, Ozzie-and-Harriet-era knotty pine. (Randall Bachner for Spruce magazine)(pg. F1); BEARABLE LIGHTNESS -- Martha Pilgreen, an architect, and K. Michael Hays, an architecture professor, far left, are debating the beauty of unpainted knots at their new house on Cape Cod, which Ms. Pilgreen designed. Above, knotty pine in East Hampton, from the October issue of HomeStyle magazine. Left, a child's knotty-pine bedroom in Manhattan, with an Ikea armoire. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times; right, Meg Henson for The New York Times); (Antoine Bootz for HomeStyle magazine)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%) INTERIOR DESIGN; WOOD AND WOOD PRODUCTS 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, FRED 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (53%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



330 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: The Yukon's Wide Open Spaces Luring Europeans 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: EAGLE PLAINS, Yukon Territory 

 BODY:
Two Romans posed for summer vacation snapshots, bundled against a chill wind and straddling the imaginary line of the Arctic Circle. 
 "The big sky, the sound of the wind, this is where the world ends," Mariantonietta Colimberti shouted over a breeze whipping a vast treeless plain as her partner, Mario Trapletti, read a tourism sign on Canada's only road to cross the Arctic Circle, the Dempster Highway. 
 A Roman holiday in the Yukon is not as odd as it might sound. 
With charter flights from Frankfurt and Zurich disgorging hundreds of European tourists every week in the summer, Whitehorse, Yukon's capital, says it is the smallest city in North America with direct jet service to Europe. 
Newly arrived Austrians, Germans and Swiss are cajoled to drive Der Klondike Highway, to stop in Dawson City to learn about the gold rush and to end the day with a territorial microbrew, Yukon Gold or Arctic Red. 
A century after the 1898 Klondike gold rush made the Yukon synonymous with mining, tourism has supplanted mining as the leading private sector employer in the territory, which is the size of California. This summer, the Yukon drew 250,000 tourists, almost 10 visitors for each inhabitant of the territory.
In contrast, annual mining production has plunged to $27 million, less than 10 percent of the 1996 level. The Yukon Chamber of Mines blames the collapse on low prices for gold, high prices for oil and federal regulation of the territory from faraway Ottawa. Faced with jobless rates twice as high as southern Canada's, almost 10 percent of the territory's population has moved away in the last five years. 
"When I first came to the Yukon there must have been 10 good-sized mines, each employing 200, 300 people -- all that's all gone, finished" said Bob Stack, owner of Norcan Leasing, the territory's largest vehicle-leasing company. "What has replaced that is tourism. The Europeans are big renters. What they like about the Yukon is there are no people here."
The 457-mile highway -- actually a two-lane, well-graded dirt road -- runs over tundra and permafrost, stretching north from the Klondike Highway, near Dawson City, to Inuvik, an Arctic town in the Mackenzie River delta. Two decades after its opening, the Dempster now is marketed to tourists as the key to Canada's "Accessible Arctic." 
European tourists flock to the Arctic for the same reasons they flock to the American Southwest -- to experience wide open spaces and to encounter Native American cultures.
" 'Vilderness,' that's how they say it," Lene Nielsen, the Danish-born owner of the Scandia House Bed and Breakfast in Whitehorse, said of her European guests. "They have dreamt about it all their lives: camping where they want, having a campfire where they want, chopping down a tree." 
Near the southern start of the Dempster, at Tombstone Mountain Campground, Rob Honig, a retired electrical engineer from the Netherlands, was excited by the concept of driving a highway where there is no gas station in the first 229 miles. 
"Europe is very populated, we can't imagine a place where there are no cars on the streets," he said before climbing into a rented camper with his wife. 
"Here, we don't see a lot of people. It's pure nature -- that's what we came for." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (75%); LEASING INDUSTRY (74%); TRENDS (73%); MINING OUTPUT (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (79%) YUKON TERRITORY, CANADA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); NORTHWEST TERRITORIES, CANADA (79%) CANADA (98%); EUROPE (94%); ARCTIC (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); DENMARK (57%) CANADA; YUKON TERRITORY; WHITEHORSE (YUKON TERRITORY)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



331 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Traditional Spirits Block a $500 Million Dam Plan in Uganda 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: BUJAGALI FALLS, Uganda 

 BODY:
The churning rapids that surge past a hillside lookout here explode into a ferocious storm of water, beckoning with thrills for some, and power and profit for others.
 Just six miles from where the Nile begins its journey north, Bujagali Falls, with its wild stretches of nature, may soon become the site for East Africa's largest foreign investment project ever. 
 AES Corp., an Arlington, Va.-based company that has grown into the world's largest independent power producer, has struck a $500 million deal with the Ugandan government to build a massive dam near Bujagali that would greatly expand power capacity for the country, where fewer than 5 percent of the 22 million residents have electricity. 
While constructing a 100-foot-high wall of concrete across the Nile is certainly a technical feat, the business deal is encountering even bigger cultural and environmental challenges.
AES executives, who first undertook the project in 1994, have found much corruption to confront and vociferous opposition to quell. Then there have been the numerous spiritual dimensions to the site that the company has been forced to address.
"We had no idea the depth of the impediments," Christian C. Wright, the AES country director, said recently, as the project neared its seventh year of development.
In the end, those obstacles are making the vexing tasks of acquiring financing and pushing the project through Uganda's Parliament seem easy.
The problems are far from solved. Construction, already years late, remains on hold. Mr. Wright estimates that ground will be broken in December but others see the start of the project slipping well into next year.
Moreover, the dam project has been, from the start, a minefield -- or more accurately a graveyard and holy site. For many of the Basoga and Baganda people who live at the river's edge, the Nile is tantamount to holy water. Their lives revolve around the river. Their ancestors rest on its shores. Some believe that spirits remain within the swirling water.
"It has been established that the dwelling places of a number of spirits will require relocation either before construction commences or before the reservoir area is inundated," AES said in an environmental report that it submitted to the World Bank, which is providing financial backing for much of the project.
To deal with objections from residents, and to ensure approval from the bank's International Finance Corporation, AES says it will handle this project with special care -- not just as another dam.
"No site can be destroyed or damaged until the necessary ceremonies or rituals have been carried out," says the company's report, which took years to prepare and fills seven volumes.
The company has produced a map of numerous trees and rocks that the local residents consider the homes of spirits. A ceremony must take place at each site to move the spirit, and another to introduce it to another resting spot. Each ceremony requires livestock for slaughter as well as local millet and banana brews.
Additional ceremonies must take place at each grave site near the dam to properly transfer the remains of ancestors to another location.
Two mass ceremonies are also planned to appease the spirit that resides in the water, one gathering for each of the rival clans that claim to be in touch with the Jaja.
AES has hired a specialist in traditional African religions, John Baptist Kaggwa, to coordinate all the logistics. "Traditionally, community spirits are not supposed to be transferred," Mr. Kaggwa said.
"What we're doing is appeasing the spirits. We're saying to the spirits, 'Your home is going to be tampered with. Please allow us to continue.' "
For AES, the dam started as a business transaction, one the company maintains will greatly benefit Uganda. Although the details of its deal with the Ugandan government remain confidential, critics of the project say that the company stands to gain $100 million a year at the start of its 30-year operation of the dam.
Most of Uganda's existing power is concentrated in Kampala and Jinja, the two largest urban areas. In the country's vast rural areas, candles and lanterns are the rule, with electricity reaching less than 1 percent of dwellings.
It is this modern-day culture that the Ugandan government is eager to change. "This project should have been built 30 years ago," said Fred Kabagambe-Kalissa, a senior energy official. "All the manufacturers want to kill me. They're losing hours of production. It's a real crisis. The lights even go off right here in the Ministry of Energy."
But the AES dam will not light up Uganda with the flip of a switch.
The country lacks the infrastructure to bring power to residents in most remote areas of the country. And even though AES plans to build 60 miles of transmission lines as part of the dam project, most Ugandans will remain in the dark even after the dam is up and running, which the developers hope will be around 2005.
Still, the dam is expected to almost double the 260 megawatts of electricity now generated in Uganda, largely at another dam built in 1954 further up stream on the Nile.
As for the company's cultural outreach, critics of the project see opportunism and nothing else. "This company doesn't understand the culture," said Martin Musumba, a retired politician who founded the Save Bujagali Crusade. "It doesn't have anything to do with the money. Culture evolves over generations and you can't buy it. This company is exploiting people's poverty by buying them off."
The dam opponents, who include environmentalists, rafting operators and others, acknowledge that the company's outreach efforts have squelched much local opposition.
The company is buying up the land of about 400 families and offering them cash, new dwellings or comparable land in exchange, a deal that the company maintains will leave people better off than before. Because few locals have ever held millions of Ugandan shillings at once, the company has brought in bankers to teach financial management skills.
But the residents are not willing to just pack up their things and move, and that is where the ceremonies come in.
Even so, AES has become skeptical about some of those who have come forward with cultural claims. "Somebody comes in and says this tree is a resident tree for such-and-such a spirit," said Mr. Kaggwa, the company's cultural adviser. "Verifying the unknown is very difficult. You have to take the person through many interviews and sometimes you can't disprove them."
As for the living Bujagali, he believes that AES is acting in its own interest in paying for the ceremonies. He said the spirits, if not appeased, would wreak havoc on the project through construction problems, deaths and widespread illness.
"The spirits," he said, "would never allow the dam to be built."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A kayak navigates white water at Bujagali Falls. Environmentalists, rafting operators and others oppose a dam proposed for the site.; A spiritual figure known as the living Bujagali, who lives in a shrine near a series of rapids on the Nile, says he can communicate with a spirit in the roiling waters there. (Photographs by Marc Lacey/The New York Times) Map of Uganda highlighting Bujagali Falls: AES Corp. is planning a 100-foot-high dam at Bujagali Falls. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (75%); RELIGION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (56%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; DAMS AND DIKES; WATER 

COMPANY: AES CORP (86%)

ORGANIZATION: AES CORP 

TICKER: AES (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (86%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (86%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: LACEY, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NILE RIVER (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%) UGANDA (94%); AFRICA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%) UGANDA; NILE RIVER; BUJAGALI FALLS (UGANDA)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



332 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: A Symbol Was Destroyed, Not America's Financial System 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
SYMBOLICALLY, it was the heart of the world financial system. And now there is a void where the tallest buildings in New York had stood so solidly.
 If the motive was to halt the operations at the heart of the capitalist system of financial trading, the attack was a success. Yesterday, dispirited people found it their duty to rapidly reconstruct an intricate financial system. 
 Even as they did that, many no doubt had a feeling that their task was far less important than all the lives that were lost. There is an old, sick joke that is well known on Wall Street. "Aside from that, Mrs. Lincoln," went the question, "how did you like the play?" 
The imperatives of making money, of guessing what the Federal Reserve will do and how the markets will react, of assessing whether a recession is now more likely, of estimating insurance company losses or airline passenger levels, paled in significance. Who cared?
Yet, the knowledge that the attackers had made targets of the center of the financial system as well as the country's military headquarters gave the work heightened importance. The terrorists evidently thought that shutting down the symbol of America's financial might was important enough to take the lives of perhaps dozens of their hijackers along with uncounted others who had done nothing to offend them save to live in the United States and happen to board the wrong plane, show up for work in the World Trade Center or try to rescue other victims.
If closing the financial system was vital to them, then reopening it is essential. And so the work went on even as Wall Streeters learned which of their colleagues had died and which firms had lost the bulk of their personnel.
New York's major financial markets are all within a few blocks of the rubble that once was the World Trade Center. None of them were destroyed. But all suffered.
They needed to find ways to return their employees to work and to make a badly damaged infrastructure function. New York's telephone system, a vital part of the means of getting market data out and trade orders in, was reeling from both the destruction and increased use as people all over the world tried to learn if friends had survived. Some communications systems had gone through the World Trade Center. Could they be rerouted?
Thirty-two brokerage firms had offices in the World Trade Center. Some offices were small and of minor importance to their firm's overall operations. Some were the heart of the firm. Could those firms resume operations? What would be done for customers if they could not?
A big fight ensued yesterday over whether to reopen trading today. In the end, those who feared that not all systems would work prevailed. For one more day, the terrorists won. Bonds will trade today, but stocks will not.
Still, trading will resume, probably on Monday. The stabilization of European markets yesterday provides hope that price declines here will be limited. But whatever happens to the Dow Jones industrial average, the important fact will be that markets are functioning. It was in 1933 that news last forced the New York Stock Exchange to close for multiple days. Then, the survival of capitalism was really in doubt, as a "bank holiday" was called to halt bank runs and allow time to assess which banks were hopelessly insolvent. Many thought the system had failed. Now some resent its success and resort to terrorism.
Exploding planes destroyed buildings. A resumption of trading will show there are things they cannot destroy.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); TERRORISM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



333 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Current Account Deficit Narrowed in Latest Quarter 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
The United States current account deficit narrowed in the second quarter as slowing economies around the world reduced the level of trade, government figures showed today.
 The current account shortfall, the broadest measure of international commerce because it includes investments, shrank to $106.5 billion in the April-June period after narrowing to a revised $111.8 billion in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said. 
 The deficit represents money the United States has to borrow overseas to pay for the goods and services Americans import and to finance investment not covered by savings. As the United States and global economies have cooled, imports and exports have declined. Analysts had expected a deficit of $106 billion after a previously reported shortfall of $109.6 billion in the first quarter. 
The gap in merchandise trade shrank as imports fell to $293.6 billion from $307.5 billion. Reduced purchases of capital goods led the decline, which also included a decrease in oil imports, the government said. Goods exports dropped to $185.8 billion from $194.9 billion.
Trade in services posted a larger surplus for the three-month period, rising to $18.9 billion from $17.5 billion. Services exports rose 0.7 percent, to $74.7 billion. Imports fell 1.6 percent, to $55.8 billion.
Income on overseas assets held by American investors fell 9 percent, to $77.8 billion. Foreign earnings on United States assets fell 8.1 percent, to $81.4 billion.
Foreign ownership of American assets -- including purchases of stocks and bonds and direct investment in business and real estate -- increased by $188 billion in the second quarter after climbing $346.7 billion in the first.
Private international investors were net sellers of Treasury securities. Foreign ownership of Treasuries fell $8.3 billion after purchases of $656 million in the first quarter.
Foreign investment in American stocks and bonds other than Treasuries grew $132.7 billion in the quarter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (94%); IMPORT TRADE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); BOND MARKETS (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



334 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE ENERGY MARKET; 
OPEC Says U.S. Turmoil Won't Affect Oil Supply

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
Oil-producing countries have hurried to issue assurances that the attacks Tuesday on New York and Washington and any subsequent retaliation by the United States will not affect petroleum supplies.
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which produces about 40 percent of the world's oil, said its members would not use oil as a political weapon as the United States reaction to the attacks takes shape in the weeks ahead. 
 In a statement issued late Tuesday from OPEC headquarters in Vienna, Secretary General Ali Rodriguez Araque said: "All member countries remain committed to continuing their policy of strengthening market stability and ensuring that sufficient supplies are available to satisfy market needs." 
The display of support for the United States, at least for now, shows the delicate situation in which Middle Eastern countries find themselves, said Roger Diwan, managing director with the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting group. 
Many Arabs are suspicious and critical of the United States; scenes have been broadcast of people expressing delight at the attacks. But many Middle Eastern countries may fear provoking America's wrath at such a time by pushing oil prices higher, Mr. Diwan said.
"The world has been redefined for the United States as 'you are either with us or against,' and no one wants to be against this country, or you are going to get it," he said. "This is war, and those countries are sitting in a tight spot right now, and squeezing oil prices ain't option No. 1."
OPEC members are also aware that the attacks in the United States destabilize an already shaky global economy. Keeping oil prices high could worsen any recession that might arrive, in turn reducing oil revenue.
Though many analysts expect prices to remain volatile in the coming weeks, no one seems to think that a 1970's-style Arab oil embargo is in the offing.
OPEC's pledge yesterday helped to calm prices for crude oil, which surged on Tuesday to their highest point in nine months on the International Petroleum Exchange in London. Brent crude oil prices for October settlement, the London benchmark, spiked Tuesday by $3.60, to $31.05 a barrel, a rise of 13 percent, before closing at $29.06. Yesterday, the price of Brent descended further, to close at $28.02. 
The New York Mercantile Exchange, where West Texas intermediate crude, the United States benchmark, is traded, remained closed yesterday. It is situated near the World Trade Center, whose towers were destroyed in the attacks on Tuesday.
OPEC's assurances were followed by similar vows, and condolences, from several member countries, including several whose relations with the United States remain tense. President Mohammad Khatami of Iran, for example, offered condolences to the United States and condemned the attacks; the Libyan leader, Muammar el-Qaddafi, called them "terrible." 
American allies like Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates offered more specific assistance. At a news conference in Vienna yesterday, oil ministers from the two countries echoed OPEC's vow that oil supplies would not be disrupted.
Ubayd Seif al-Nasiri, oil minister for the United Arab Emirates, said, "There are no problems between the U.S. and countries in this region."
If oil prices remain high or spike repeatedly, Mr. Rodriguez said, members will be ready to increase supplies. OPEC has reduced daily production by 3.5 million barrels, or 4.6 percent of world demand, since the start of the year. The group is scheduled to meet again in Vienna on Sept. 26. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (94%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); FUTURES (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); HIJACKING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); AIRLINES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA; RODRIGUEZ ARAQUE, ALI (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AUSTRIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



335 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Wreckage on Wall Street Is Emotional and Practical
Wall Street employs about 200,000 people, enough to fill a good-sized city. But when disaster struck at its heart, it seemed more like a large extended family that had just suffered unimaginable losses and was wondering just how it would right itself.
 Everyone, it seemed, had a friend, family member, co-worker or competitor who had reason to be in the World Trade Center on any given day. And the attack wrought a combination of emotional wreckage and urgent pressure to sort out business issues involving billions of dollars. Section A. 

Companies Try to Restore Order
Across corporate America, senior managers and executives grappled with trying to restore at least a semblance of business as usual -- even as though they knew that, emotionally at least, it was anything but. Executives, many of them stranded in cities hundreds of miles from their usual bases, set up command posts in hotels and in offices borrowed from clients and customers as they tried to run their companies and figure out how to get home. C2.

The gears of the economy began grinding again, though many of the human beings turning the cranks needed comforting and many of their customers were depressed. Section A.

Travel Industry Still in Turmoil
With the nation's airports closed, thousands of travelers struggling to return home from business trips, and conferences and corporate meetings canceled, the business travel industry, including airlines, hotels and car rental companies, faces turmoil for the coming week and uncertainty about prospects in the near future. Section A.

Federal authorities said that most planes would remain grounded until extra security measures could be put in place. It could take days for the air-travel system to return to any degree of normalcy. Section A.

OPEC Vows to Maintain Oil Supply
Oil-producing countries have hurried to issue assurances that the attacks and any subsequent retaliation by the United States will not affect petroleum supplies. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which produces about 40 percent of the world's oil, said its members would not use oil as a political weapon as the United States reaction to the attacks takes shape in the weeks ahead. C7.

Businesses Face Loss of Records
As businesses began to digest the loss of life, they also had to address the loss of records. While many financial firms have automatic backups of their records, law firms are especially dependent on hard copies of documents that might be used in litigation or as legally binding originals. C2.

Exodus From New York Feared
Some business executives, especially those in the real estate industry, expressed fear that more companies will move out of New York City to places with lower costs, more available land and fewer risks. Section A.

Media Companies Postpone Plans
Television networks backed away from premiere dates for entertainment series; advertisers scrapped plans for product campaigns, Hollywood studios postponed dates for releases of big-budget movies, and publishers canceled promotional activities for high-profile new books. The print newsmagazines, on the other hand, are publishing special issues today and tomorrow. Section A.

The coverage of the attacks brought tens of millions of Americans to television sets throughout Tuesday, peaking in President Bush's address to the nation, which according to preliminary figures, reached about 80 million viewers. Section A.

U.S. Account Deficit Narrows
The United States current account deficit narrowed in the second quarter as slowing economies around the world reduced the level of trade, government figures showed. The current account shortfall, the broadest measure of international commerce because it includes investments, shrank to $106.5 billion in the April-June period after narrowing to a revised $111.8 billion in the first quarter. As the United States and global economies have cooled, imports and exports have declined. C8.

G.E. and Honeywell Appeal Ruling
General Electric and Honeywell have appealed the European Commission's rejection of their $45 billion merger, the European Court of Justice said. The appeal is not aimed at resurrecting the deal but is an effort to nullify the ruling that G.E. has a dominant position in the aerospace sector. That ruling, if left unchallenged, could prevent G.E. from making future acquisitions. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart tracks the current account deficit, in millions, from 2000 and first two quarters of 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (85%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FAMILY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); TRAVEL AGENTS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); OIL EXTRACTION (67%); AIRLINES (65%); LEGAL SERVICES (64%); LITIGATION (60%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



336 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE TRADING FIRM; 
An Emblem of Concern and Anxiety

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES and JENNIFER 8. LEE 

 BODY:
Until Tuesday, few people beyond the rarefied world of the government bond market had ever heard of Cantor Fitzgerald L.P., a 57-year-old firm that is an important piece of the backstage machinery of the Treasury market. But in the wake of the attack on the World Trade Center, the firm has emerged as a magnet for Wall Street's concern about the devastation and personal tragedy that the financial community has experienced.
 Of Cantor's more than 2,300 employees worldwide, about 1,000 worked at the company's headquarters on the 101st, 103rd, 104th and 105th floors of One World Trade Center, the first tower hit in Tuesday's attack. Howard W. Lutnick, Cantor's chairman and chief executive, said at a meeting with employees' family members at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan yesterday that only about 270 had been accounted for. 
 Almost all of those people had been on vacation or otherwise out of the building.
Among those missing was William Meehan, the firm's chief market strategist, who had worked at the office in Darien, Conn., until late August.
At the Pierre, Mr. Lutnick addressed family members in a speech punctuated by sobs. His brother worked on the 103rd floor, he told them. "While I look for your sons, daughters and husbands, I am also looking for my brother."
He said he was walking into the building when the first plane hit, and he stayed by the door grabbing people and asking them to call out their floor numbers as they rushed out. Ninety-one was the highest number he heard before the neighboring tower collapsed. Then he ran out.
Mr. Lutnick told the group that Cantor was determined to reopen its electronic trading service, eSpeed, which handles more than $200 billion in government securities transactions every day.
That system makes Cantor Fitzgerald a critical player in the nation's huge Treasury market, which helps establish benchmark interest rates for everything from home mortgages to business loans and which provides a low-risk haven for investors in turbulent times. Indeed, the status of eSpeed was one factor that market officials weighed yesterday as they decided to reopen the government bond market, which has been closed since the attack.
But for the families of Cantor's New York employees -- and in a larger sense, for everyone in the Wall Street family -- the fate of the firm's employees loomed immeasurably larger than the sturdiness of the Treasury market. Hundreds of people attended the gathering at the Pierre, all wearing name tags that bore their own name and the name of the missing person they sought.
Among the crowd was Barbara Weinberg, who had spent the day helping to look for her 28-year-old niece Shari Kandell, who joined Cantor only a few months ago. "I went to sleep and woke up this morning and realized it wasn't a dream," Ms. Weinberg said. Ms. Kandell's family had recovered her car this morning from a commuter lot near a PATH station in Jersey City. 
Throughout the day, executives at other Wall Street firms -- even those with their own losses to count -- had called friends in the news media seeking information about Cantor and passing along information they had gathered from colleagues and clients. It seemed that this small, scrappy company had suddenly become the mascot for an entire industry.
Stuart Schwartz, an executive with Hoenig & Company, a market research firm in Rye Brook, N.Y., spoke to a client yesterday whose daughter had been talking with a friend at Cantor at the moment of Tuesday's dreadful impact. "The person said they were told to go to the roof -- that there was no evacuation route down the stairs," Mr. Schwartz said. "They were above the fire -- maybe they hoped for rescue from the roof, a helicopter rescue." 
Cantor Fitzgerald employees might well have recalled a similar escape plan after the 1993 basement bombing, he added.
Some Cantor employees in Los Angeles and London were on a conference call with colleagues in New York when the attack occurred. They listened in horror to the sounds of alarm and panic, and then the line went dead. 
"I'm still hopeful," Lisa Hord said yesterday morning in a call from her home Pelham, N.Y. Her husband, Montgomery, had called her immediately after the attack, she said. "He said there was smoke, and he was getting out. That's the last I heard," she added.
Leslie Gabler of New City, N.Y., spent yesterday in a desperate search for information about her son, Fredric, who worked for Cantor on the 104th floor. Her husband, Howard, worked on the tower's 47th floor and had safely escaped, she said; he had taken shelter in Greenwich Village with his son's wife, Mindy, who is expecting the couple's first child.
Friends of John Perconti, a young equity trader at Cantor, said he was also among the missing yesterday. One friend, who rents a home in Hoboken from Mr. Perconti, echoed what had become a familiar story: a phone call to Cantor that ended with the words "something happened" -- and then silence. 
Lloyd Rosenberg, 31, joined Cantor soon after graduating from Sheepshead Bay High School in Brooklyn and worked his way up from a delivery boy to a bond broker, said his mother, Michele, on Tuesday. "They saw he was an ambitious worker," she said. "They gave him a chance on the desk."
Mr. Rosenberg, who is the father of three girls younger than 6, "never leaves his desk," Mrs. Rosenberg said. She last spoke with her son at 7:30 a.m. on Tuesday, soon before the attack. It was a pleasant 10-minute conversation, she said.
"He said, 'Bye, Ma. I got to go now.' I said, 'Maybe this week, let's have lunch.' "
Bella Bhukhan, 24, who worked in Cantor's human resources office on the 104th floor, commuted by train from Union, N.J., with her sister, Nisha, who worked in the other tower. "She went her way. I went my way," Nisha Bhukhan said on Tuesday evening.
"I was about to go upstairs in the elevator when I felt trembling, and I just ran for the best exit," she said.
When she reached safety, she added, "the first person I called was my sister."
But Nisha Bhukhan was unable to find her sister and spent Tuesday moving from hospitals to makeshift morgues.
"I want my baby sister back," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A National Guard soldier patrols a no-man's land at the World Financial Center, in the World Trade Center's debris. (Reuters); Kent Karosen, right, managing director of Cantor Fitzgerald, spoke with social workers who will be counseling the families of employees. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Howard W. Lutnick, chairman and chief of Cantor Fitzgerald. (Bloomberg News); National Guard members surveyed the financial district yesterday from the corner of Wall and Broad Streets, only steps from the New York Stock Exchange. Officials said trading would resume no later than Monday. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HIJACKING (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TERRORISM (72%); MISSING PERSONS (67%); AIRLINES (64%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; LABOR 

COMPANY: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: CANTOR FITZGERALD LP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; LEE, JENNIFER 8; MEEHAN, WILLIAM (CO EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



337 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE CENTRAL BANKS; 
Central Banks Inject Billions In Move to Stem Risks of Panic

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
Central banks around the world swung into action today in a coordinated effort to calm financial markets and reduce the chances that the attack on the United States would lead to a global economic crisis.
 The Federal Reserve and its counterparts in Europe and Japan injected large amounts of money into their financial systems to reduce the possibility that panicky reactions by investors, depositors or financial institution managers could lead to bank failures or some other calamity. 
 "The central banks out there know what they have to do, and they did it," said Carl Weinberg, chief global economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm.
There were also signs that the Fed and other central banks were prepared to cut interest rates in coming days -- perhaps even before stock markets in the United States reopen on Friday or Monday, but especially if Wall Street shows signs of severe distress after trading resumes.
Although the markets in Japan and other Asian countries plunged, those in Europe moved higher today, providing some hope that Wall Street can avoid a big drop when equity trading resumes. 
Oil prices, after surging on Tuesday in the wake of the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks, fell back yesterday, with statements from producing nations that they would seek to keep prices stable by increasing output, if necessary. The dollar, which tumbled against many currencies on Tuesday, seemed to stabilize.
The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, made his way back to Washington on a military aircraft today from Switzerland, where he had been attending an international banking meeting. In his absence, the vice chairman, Roger W. Ferguson Jr., set up a command post to monitor financial conditions in the United States and help shape the international response to the economic and financial risks.
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill was flying back to the United States from Japan. Deputy Secretary Kenneth W. Dam said at a news conference that with some exceptions, finance, commerce and banking in the United States were operating smoothly. "The American economy is open for business," he said.
But behind the brave faces, economic policy makers in this country and abroad were on high alert. Fearful that a crack in consumer or investor confidence or problems linked to the loss of people and communications at New York investment firms could set off cascading problems in the financial system, governments responded by making clear that financial institutions would have all the money they needed to weather any acute problem that might arise.
Banks around the world took them up on the offer. The Fed reported that financial institutions made quick use on Tuesday night of the lines of overnight credit available through its discount window. Officials said the borrowing was "substantially elevated above normal levels."
This morning, the Fed injected additional money into the financial system by purchasing $38.25 billion worth of government bonds from investment houses. On a normal day, the Fed buys and sells no more than a few billion dollars worth of bonds.
The European Central Bank took similar action, allowing banks to borrow almost unlimited amounts to shore themselves up against any financial crisis. Commercial and other banks in Europe borrowed more than $60 billion, indicating considerable uncertainty about the fate of the markets and the economy.
In Japan, which had faced deepening financial problems before the attacks, the stock market's sharp fall further imperiled the country's banks, whose balance sheets rely heavily on their equity holdings.
The Japanese central bank responded by lending $17 billion. Its actions were the most visible economic policy actions taken by the United States and its main allies in the wake of the attack.
The Group of Seven industrial nations issued a statement suggesting that it would work in a coordinated way to limit the economic and financial fallout. "We are committed to ensuring that this tragedy will not be compounded by disruption to the global economy," the statement said. "Our central banks have indicated that they will provide liquidity to ensure that financial markets operate in an orderly fashion."
It added that the seven governments and their central banks -- from the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- would "monitor economic developments and financial markets closely," and stood ready "to take further action as necessary."
And it suggested that the central banks, including the Fed, were considering cutting rates to ease any strains on the financial system and provide a psychological lift to investors and consumers.
But central bankers indicated that they might wait to gauge the market reaction before deciding on the need for interest rate cuts.
The European bank's president, Wim Duisenberg, told the European Parliament in Brussels today that "the national central banks are standing ready to support markets and operating systems, if the need arises." But he added, "We do not and should not react to changes in short-term indicators."
C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics here, said Mr. Greenspan and the Fed would be very sensitive to any signs that problems in the stock and bond markets might feed back into the broad economy, which has been slowing for a year and seems close to lapsing into recession. "You've got a market shock interacting with a very fragile underlying economic situation," he said. "If the initial returns from the market look like being shaky to negative, I'd think there would be a case for the Fed to move."
In the short run, regulators and policy makers are trying to assess whether there is any danger to the normal operation of the markets from the loss of people, offices and communications.
But looking ahead, they are also watching a variety of issues that could go a long way toward determining whether the attack leads to a broad, possibly worldwide, downturn, or passes without doing severe economic damage.
"I think the key thing will be whether this has anything more than a relatively short-run impact on confidence in the United States," Sir Eddie George, the governor of the Bank of England, said in an interview with the BBC.
Consumers have kept the American economy afloat this year as businesses sharply cut back their investments in new computers, machinery, factories and other capital equipment.
Economists have been counting on consumers to help preserve even slight growth until business conditions improve. The tax-rebate checks being sent out are putting $38 billion into Americans' pocketbooks over 10 weeks. To the degree that people become nervous because of the attacks and choose to save rather than spend the money, it could deprive the economy of one of its few remaining pillars of support.
Some of the economic aftershocks were just starting to come into focus. Members of both parties in Congress said it was increasingly likely that Congress and the Bush administration would agree to spend whatever is necessary in response to the attack, a step that would provide another fiscal stimulus to the economy.
President Bush and Congress agreed a few hours later to spend as much as $20 billion to respond to the attacks. The agreement will almost certainly lead both parties to set aside their agreement not to spend any of the Social Security surplus. With that agreement now moot, Congress now has more flexibility to pass another round of tax cuts to spur the economy.
Much could also depend on whether and how the United States responds militarily to the attacks.
Peter Morici, a senior fellow at the Economic Strategy Institute, a research group, said that if the administration identified the country or group behind the attacks and acted swiftly to eliminate any further threat, the economic risk would be likely to pass quickly.
A drawn-out response, he said, could lead to a variety of brakes on growth -- from higher insurance rates to a general lack of willingness to take entrepreneurial risks.
"The longer it drags on," he said, "the more likely that the long-term growth rates of the U.S. economy and all the Western economies will be impaired by a significant amount. To the extent we cannot resolve the terrorist threat, it will impose a tax on growth that will persist."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wim Duisenberg, European Central Bank president, pledged support to markets, if needed. (Reuters)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); HIJACKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); BONDS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (64%); AIRLINES (64%); INTEREST RATES (54%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (57%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%) JAPAN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



338 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE ICON; 
Towers Lent City a Lift, Adding Postcard Panache And an Air of Resilience

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
In that awful void in the Lower Manhattan skyline -- which memory and the mind's eye still try desperately to fill again -- stood not only New York's twin-limbed Colossus of Rhodes but a community every bit as electric, as coursing, as nimble and sometimes as maddening or as neighborly as the city it had come to symbolize in only 28 years of existence.
 The 110-story World Trade Center was more than New York's anchor in the clouds. 
 Though displaced as the world's tallest building within a month of its dedication in April 1973 (the Sears Tower in Chicago took the title), it was a powerful emblem of the city's capacity to recover: from the economic stagnation downtown in the 1960's, from a perilous brush with bankruptcy in the mid-70's and from international terrorism in 1993, when the center was previously attacked.
And so its unfathomable absence from the craggy peaks and valleys of Lower Manhattan has deprived New York of its most imposing landmark -- the hinge of its compass -- and of an abiding confidence in the city's physical resilience. 
"Suddenly I knew, absolutely knew, New York would survive," the restaurant critic Gael Greene wrote in New York magazine in 1976, when Windows on the World opened at the top of the north tower.
"If money and power and ego and a passion for perfection could create this extraordinary pleasure, this instant landmark, Windows on the World, money and power and ego could rescue the city from its ashes."
That bright moment seemed impossibly distant yesterday.
"To see that happen to one of our most beloved creations, before our eyes, it was a devastating, emotional experience for us," said Henry J. Guthard, 70, a founding partner of Minoru Yamasaki and Associates of Rochester Hills, Mich., the architects of the twin towers, with Emery Roth & Sons. 
"The buildings are like our children," Mr. Guthard said.
Not quite identical twins -- 1 World Trade Center on the north was 1,368 feet tall and 2 World Trade Center on the south was 1,362 feet -- the buildings were cheekily christened "David" and "Nelson" for the Rockefeller brothers who championed their construction; David as chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank and founder of the Downtown-Lower Manhattan Association, Nelson as the governor of New York.
In 1960, the downtown group recommended development of a World Trade Center. 
Even then, Lee K. Jaffe of the Port Authority's public relations office suggested, "If you're going to build a great project, you should build the world's tallest building."
Two years later, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey was authorized to develop the center above a new station for the Hudson & Manhattan Railroad, which was acquired by the Port Authority and is now known as PATH.
Between the 20th and 40th version of Yamasaki's plan, he hit on the idea of twins, Anthony Robins wrote in "The World Trade Center" (Pineapple Press and Omnigraphics, 1987). One tall rectangular building "would not have looked terribly distinct from the general crop of office buildings," Mr. Robins wrote. "By making twin buildings, however, Yamasaki had a unique design."
But not a well-regarded design.
The towers were despised in some quarters as an overscaled boondoggle that wrecked a poetic skyline, uprooted the electronics businesses along "radio row," emptied older buildings of tenants, disrupted television reception and bird migration and overtaxed sewers, generators and subways.
Yet somehow, the twoness of the trade center struck the right chord in a city that rewards hubris above all else. The unmistakable profile became New York's unofficial trademark for the last quarter of the 20th century.
Zeros followed almost every statistic about the center. The workday population was more than 50,000. There were 80,000 visitors daily. Each floor was more than 40,000 square feet in extent, covering an area bigger than an acre. There were nearly 200 elevators. The towers had their own ZIP code (10048) and sometimes their own weather. In a concourse that would rival any downtown for bustle were more than 70 shops and restaurants.
What turned the tide of public regard was not the bigness of the place but the way it could be momentarily captured by fanciful gestures on a human scale.
It was the French high-wire artist Philippe Petit crossing between the towers on a tightrope in 1974 and the human fly, George Willig, illegally scaling the south tower in 1977. (Arrested when he reached the top, he was fined $1.10, a penny a floor.)
Ultimately, though, the World Trade Center was about a height and a sense of abandon that may never be recaptured.
"Down below is all of Manhattan and helicopters and clouds," Ms. Greene wrote in 1976. "Everything to hate and fear is invisible."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ever since their dedication 28 years ago, the 110-story twin towers of the World Trade Center presented a world-famous landmark that was the dominant feature in Lower Manhattan's skyline, above. Their destruction left a gaping hole from which smoke was still drifting yesterday. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (60%) TERRORISM 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



339 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE BUSINESSES; 
Mood of Sellers and Buyers, as Well as Purchases, Reflect the Devastating Events

BYLINE:  By BLAINE HARDEN and LESLIE KAUFMAN 

DATELINE: DENVER, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
On the day after, the gears of the economy began grinding again, though many of the human beings turning the cranks needed comforting and many of their customers were sullen and depressed.
 Tall buildings, shopping malls and government buildings, thousands of which had closed on Tuesday in reaction to attacks in New York and Washington, reopened for business. Gas prices, which had been flying from Illinois to Texas, came back to earth. Outside of Manhattan, phone service largely returned to normal. Disneyland reopened, but to thin crowds. 
 There was a noticeable spike in shoppers buying survival gear: guns, gas masks, chemical-warfare suits and bottled water. But it appeared that the hottest-selling consumer item in the country was the American flag. 
Businesses that rely on airline deliveries, like florists and seafood counters, scrambled to make do by ground. Most freight deliveries within the United States continued on schedule. Major railroad operators said they had only minimal delays in cargo deliveries, while United Parcel Service Inc. said that there would be no delay in delivery of most of its packages, as more than 10 million a day are moved on the ground and only about 2 million in the air. 
"If somebody calls today and says they want South American roses, normally I could have them by tomorrow," said John Bozeman, general manager of Flowers International, which serves the Rocky Mountain region. He could not get foreign flowers for the time being, he said, "but we can still get 80 percent of our flowers by trucks, and the trucks are rolling."
But not everywhere. Heightened security at borders and airports appeared likely to limit the ability of many companies to deliver goods on time.
Ted Solomon, who operates a small trucking company at Los Angeles International Airport, said that even before the attacks his drivers were required to deal with bomb-sniffing dogs and long forms, especially on shipments from the Middle East. "Now, there is going to be a big increase in security, the lines are going to get longer, and I can't pass those additional costs onto my customers," Mr. Solomon said.
For some businesses, unlocking the front door was an act of patriotism. "All of our stores are open," said Tom Williams, a spokesman for Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer. "In times of tragedy in the U.S., we want to present Wal-Mart as a place that hasn't changed, a place people feel comfortable." 
By studying purchases at Wal-Mart in the past two days, it was possible to chart the ebb and flow of American emotions since the explosions on Tuesday.
First, panic.
Early Tuesday, Wal-Mart reported that demand for bottled water and food was higher than the weekday norm. By the afternoon, as fear gave ground to resolve, shopping patterns changed.
American flags and red-white-and blue items like crepe paper bunting began to disappear from shelves. When its stores closed on Tuesday, Wal-Mart found that it had sold 88,000 American flags, compared with the 6,400 it sold on Sept. 11 a year earlier. 
Kmart, which also reported a run on flags, removed guns and ammunition from all of its 2,100 stores on Tuesday morning, shortly after the planes crashed into the twin towers of the World Trade Center in Manhattan.
"With the uncertainty of what was happening," said a Kmart spokeswoman, Julie Fracker, "and our concern for the safety of our customers and our associates, we chose to remove all firearms and ammunition from our stores." 
By this morning, guns, shells and other equipment were back in many stores. Kmart executives said the uncertainty had passed.
Whether driven by uncertainty, anger or fear, several gun shops in the South and West reported a spike in business. Owners said it began almost as soon as the twin towers collapsed.
"People looked grim when they came in the store," said Larry Lockert, owner of L & L Guns in the Denver suburb of Lakewood. "They were just kind of silent and I wasn't prying, but they were buying."
Mr. Lockert said that in the past two days he had sold nine of "those shorter self-defense shotguns that you can keep by the bedside." Normally, he said, he feels lucky if he sells one a week.
At many shopping malls, consumers of less lethal goods often seemed out of sorts and not in a buying mood.
The Beverly Center in Los Angeles usually bustles with shoppers by lunchtime, but today the parking garage was half full, and shop owners said sales were off sharply. The customers who did come in were largely tourists stuck after flights were canceled. Several stores remained closed, including Victoria's Secret and Express.
At Restoration Hardware, sales were running far below normal, said Brooke Aleman, a manager.
"It feels almost disrespectful to come to the store and spend money," Ms. Aleman said. "There is this weird hang in the air. It's like I saw this girl with an "Anarchy" T-shirt on, and, you know, I was a punk rocker, but I thought to myself, 'Hey, that's un-American.' "
A glittering exception to the dull commercial mood in much of the country was Las Vegas. The city experienced only mild disruptions on Tuesday, and today things were back to normal.
The MGM Grand Hotel nodded to the national crisis on Tuesday by putting up "God Bless America" in neon lights. Today, it was promoting "EFX," a risque dance review. 
Despite the closing of the city's airport, taxi and limousine services were thriving, said Kami Dempsey, a spokeswoman for the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce.
"We have so many thousands of people who were already here on vacations," Ms. Dempsey said. "They have to get around."
For the foreseeable future, terrorism and its countless complications seem certain to alter, if not hobble, the planning that goes into nearly every major national event.
Just three weeks ago, Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah said that security officials involved in planning the 2002 Olympics had trained for "every conceivable" type of terrorist attack. 
Today, Mr. Leavitt conceded that they might not have contemplated hijacked commercial airliners slamming into tall buildings.
"Now," he said, with the Olympics starting in Salt Lake City in February, "there is a need for us to factor this new political situation into our planning."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry Lockert, owner of L&L Guns in Lakewood, Colo., said his business had increased since the terrorist attacks on Tuesday. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOTTLED WATER (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); AIRPORTS (88%); AIRLINES (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); FLORISTS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); DOGS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); TRUCKING (68%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (67%); BORDER CONTROL (64%); MOUNTAINS (50%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (82%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (69%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (82%); UPS (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (82%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (69%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (69%)

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE; KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



340 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
World War III

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
As I restlessly lay awake early yesterday, with CNN on my TV and dawn breaking over the holy places of Jerusalem, my ear somehow latched onto a statement made by the U.S. transportation secretary, Norman Mineta, about the new precautions that would be put in place at U.S. airports in the wake of Tuesday's unspeakable terrorist attacks: There will be no more curbside check-in, he said. I suddenly imagined a group of terrorists somewhere here in the Middle East, sipping coffee, also watching CNN and laughing hysterically: "Hey boss, did you hear that? We just blew up Wall Street and the Pentagon and their response is no more curbside check-in?" 
I don't mean to criticize Mr. Mineta. He is doing what he can. And I have absolutely no doubt that the Bush team, when it identifies the perpetrators, will make them pay dearly. Yet there was something so absurdly futile and American about the curbside ban that I couldn't help but wonder: Does my country really understand that this is World War III? And if this attack was the Pearl Harbor of World War III, it means there is a long, long war ahead. 
And this Third World War does not pit us against another superpower. It pits us -- the world's only superpower and quintessential symbol of liberal, free-market, Western values -- against all the super-empowered angry men and women out there. Many of these super-empowered angry people hail from failing states in the Muslim and third world. They do not share our values, they resent America's influence over their lives, politics and children, not to mention our support for Israel, and they often blame America for the failure of their societies to master modernity.
What makes them super-empowered, though, is their genius at using the networked world, the Internet and the very high technology they hate, to attack us. Think about it: They turned our most advanced civilian planes into human-directed, precision-guided cruise missiles -- a diabolical melding of their fanaticism and our technology. Jihad Online. And think of what they hit: The World Trade Center -- the beacon of American-led capitalism that both tempts and repels them, and the Pentagon, the embodiment of American military superiority.
And think about what places in Israel the Palestinian suicide bombers have targeted most. "They never hit synagogues or settlements or Israeli religious zealots," said the Haaretz columnist Ari Shavit. "They hit the Sbarro pizza parlor, the Netanya shopping mall. The Dolphinarium disco. They hit the yuppie Israel, not the yeshiva Israel."
So what is required to fight a war against such people in such a world? To start with, we as Americans will never be able to penetrate such small groups, often based on family ties, who live in places such as Afghanistan, Pakistan or Lebanon's wild Bekaa Valley. The only people who can penetrate these shadowy and ever-mutating groups, and deter them, are their own societies. And even they can't do it consistently. So give the C.I.A. a break.
Israeli officials will tell you that the only time they have had real quiet and real control over the suicide bombers and radical Palestinian groups, such as Hamas and Islamic Jihad, is when Yasir Arafat and his Palestinian Authority tracked them, jailed them or deterred them. 
So then the question becomes, What does it take for us to get the societies that host terrorist groups to truly act against them?
First we have to prove that we are serious, and that we understand that many of these terrorists hate our existence, not just our policies. In June I wrote a column about the fact that a few cell-phone threats from Osama bin Laden had prompted President Bush to withdraw the F.B.I. from Yemen, a U.S. Marine contingent from Jordan and the U.S. Fifth Fleet from its home base in the Persian Gulf. This U.S. retreat was noticed all over the region, but it did not merit a headline in any major U.S. paper. That must have encouraged the terrorists. Forget about our civilians, we didn't even want to risk our soldiers to face their threats.
The people who planned Tuesday's bombings combined world-class evil with world-class genius to devastating effect. And unless we are ready to put our best minds to work combating them -- the World War III Manhattan Project -- in an equally daring, unconventional and unremitting fashion, we're in trouble. Because while this may have been the first major battle of World War III, it may be the last one that involves only conventional, non-nuclear weapons. 
Second, we have been allowing a double game to go on with our Middle East allies for years, and that has to stop. A country like Syria has to decide: Does it want a Hezbollah embassy in Damascus or an American one? If it wants a U.S. embassy, then it cannot play host to a rogue's gallery of terrorist groups. 
Does that mean the U.S. must ignore Palestinian concerns and Muslim economic grievances? No. Many in this part of the world crave the best of America, and we cannot forget that we are their ray of hope. But apropos of the Palestinians, the U.S. put on the table at Camp David a plan that would have gotten Yasir Arafat much of what he now claims to be fighting for. That U.S. plan may not be sufficient for Palestinians, but to say that the justifiable response to it is suicide terrorism is utterly sick.
Third, we need to have a serious and respectful dialogue with the Muslim world and its political leaders about why many of its people are falling behind. The fact is, no region in the world, including sub-Saharan Africa, has fewer freely elected governments than the Arab-Muslim world, which has none. Why? Egypt went through a whole period of self-criticism after the 1967 war, which produced a stronger country. Why is such self-criticism not tolerated today by any Arab leader?
Where are the Muslim leaders who will tell their sons to resist the Israelis -- but not to kill themselves or innocent non-combatants? No matter how bad, your life is sacred. Surely Islam, a grand religion that never perpetrated the sort of Holocaust against the Jews in its midst that Europe did, is being distorted when it is treated as a guidebook for suicide bombing. How is it that not a single Muslim leader will say that?
These are some of the issues we will have to address as we fight World War III. It will be a long war against a brilliant and motivated foe. When I remarked to an Israeli military official what an amazing technological feat it was for the terrorists to hijack the planes and then fly them directly into the most vulnerable spot in each building, he pooh-poohed me. 
"It's not that difficult to learn how to fly a plane once it's up in the air," he said. "And remember, they never had to learn how to land."
 No, they didn't. They only had to destroy. We, by contrast, have to fight in a way that is effective without destroying the very open society we are trying to protect. We have to fight hard and land safely. We have to fight the terrorists as if there were no rules, and preserve our open society as if there were no terrorists. It won't be easy. It will require our best strategists, our most creative diplomats and our bravest soldiers. Semper Fi. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Angus McWilton) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); HEZBOLLAH (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); RELIGION (73%); AIRLINES (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (67%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (59%) ;HEZBOLLAH 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (55%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SYRIA; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



341 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 206 words

HEADLINE: A Numbing Search, and a Yearning for Answers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "U.S. Attacked; Hijacked Jets Destroy Twin Towers and Hit Pentagon in Day of Terror" (front page, Sept. 12): 
 Now is the time for our country to reach out to New Yorkers and to all the grieving families and communities. 
The mayor, the firefighters, the police, emergency-response crews, medical personnel and volunteers will need the country's support to do the hard work of digging out, healing the wounded and burying the dead.
While our main efforts must be concentrated on the immediate tasks, it is also a time for all of us to reflect on "business as usual."
Obviously, we will need to institute better security measures. Less obviously, perhaps, but more difficult, we will have to carefully and with vigilance critique political, economic, civic and religious discourses that justify and, worse, valorize brutal acts as the means to an end. 
In our haste to get things done, we often overlook the human cost of violent means to however laudable ends. 
A true memorial to the victims of this act of terrorism should include serious commitment to nonviolent ways of teaching and upholding the highest human ideals and aspirations for peaceful mediation of conflicts.

ANNLINN GROSSMAN
Silver Spring, Md., Sept. 12, 2001


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%) AMERICAN AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES 

PERSON: GROSSMAN, ANNLINN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



342 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS 

 BODY:
 MINUTES TO LIVE, OR DIE -- Some left, others stayed. In the minutes between the first crash and the ultimate collapse of the World Trade Center, some workers rushed to get out while others stayed put, uncertain what to do. PAGE A6

WALL STREET STAGGERS -- Wall Street employs about 200,000 people; thousands are feared dead. Those left are dazed, trying to care for victims' families and resume work without trusted colleagues. PAGE A7

COMMITMENT FROM ALLIES -- NATO invoked a mutual defense clause in its founding treaty for the first time, strongly suggesting that the United States would have the support of the allies for military action. PAGE A17

CONCERN ON WORLD MEETINGS -- The U.N. will postpone a special session on children scheduled for next week in New York, and a Washington meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund is also likely to be canceled. PAGE A18

THE VICTIMS -- Top New York fire officials, business executives and a political commentator were among the dead. OBITUARIES, PAGE A25

WHEN WORDS FAIL -- In a day when hype and hyperbole have become a staple of cable news, words seemed devalued and inadequate to capture the disasters. Critic's Notebook, by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE E1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DEVALUATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



343 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: AMERICAN FLIGHT 11; 
A Plane Left Boston and Skimmed Over River and Mountain in a Deadly Detour

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIFNER 

 BODY:
American Airlines Flight 11 to Los Angeles took off on schedule out of the tangle of construction choking Logan International Airport in Boston, right on time at 7:59 Tuesday morning. 
 Capt. John Ogonowski was at the controls, a 50-year-old veteran pilot who lived on a farm north of the city and was looking forward to a family picnic on the weekend. 
 His co-pilot was First Officer Thomas McGuinness, and there were 9 flight attendants and 81 passengers, a seemingly everyday mixture: a television producer, some businessmen, a retired ballet dancer, an actress and photographer, a young man who had made a success in the new technology economy. 
And several hijackers.
The plane held on course, almost due west, for only 16 minutes.
Just past Worcester, Mass., instead of taking a southerly turn, the Boeing 767 swung to the north at 8:15. It had been taken over.
Shortly after the plane took off, Justice Department officials said, an ugly, bloody scene -- almost identical on each of the four airliners that were hijacked Tuesday -- played itself out in the cabin.
On each plane, the officials said, three to six men pulled out knives and box cutters that they had apparently concealed in their carry-on luggage, perhaps in shaving kits. They threatened or slashed the flight attendants, possibly to get the pilots to open the cockpit door.
Five minutes later, at 8:20, Flight 11 failed to follow an instruction to climb to its cruising altitude of 31,000 feet. It was this point that air controllers suspected something was wrong. And just about then the plane's transponder, a piece of equipment that broadcast its location, went out.
Captain Ogonowski apparently tried to signal air controllers by "keying" the microphone, pushing its button intermittently to signal that something was wrong and at one point allowing them to hear the voice of the hijacker, The Christian Science Monitor reported.
"Don't do anything foolish; you won't be hurt," the newspaper reported that the hijacker said, quoting air controllers. "We have more planes. We have other planes."
In the cabin, meanwhile, one flight attendant made a telephone call -- either on a cell phone or on a phone on the back of a seat -- to the American Airlines Operations Center, officials said, warning that a hijacking was in progress and giving the seat number of one hijackers, providing a crucial lead to investigators.
Neither the airline, the flight attendants union nor federal investigators would reveal the name of the flight attendant. 
On a beautiful late summer day, Flight 11 headed northwest, where the Berkshires, the Taconic Range and the beginning of the Green Mountains mark the spot where the borders of Massachusetts, New York and Vermont intersect.
Crossing into New York, the plane flew into the area known as the Albany-Schenectady-Troy triangle then veered left over Amsterdam and headed due south to New York City.
It was 8:29.
The flight path was straight now, along the Hudson Valley and then right above the broad river itself.
It should have been a leisurely flight to Los Angeles, the time passed, perhaps, with one of those paperback novels in which heroes battle the schemes of terrorists. But now the schemes were real.
In the cabin were David Angell, an executive producer of the television comedy "Frasier," along with his wife, Lynn. Officials at NBC said the couple were on the way home from a vacation on Cape Cod. Also returning home from Cape Cod was Berry Berenson Perkins, 53, an actress and photographer and the widow of the actor Anthony Perkins. There was Daniel Lewin, 31, a co-founder of Akamai Technologies Inc., based in Cambridge, Mass., an Internet content provider, and Sonia Puopolo, a retired ballet dancer. There was Robert Hayes, 37, a salesman for machinery to record compact discs and a surfer who worked mostly from home so he could spend time with his wife and sons, 4 years old and 6 months old. He had met his wife, Debora, when she was a customer service agent for Trans World Airlines dealing with a flight he had missed. Somehow, she said yesterday, he had a premonition about this flight, taking a walk alone the night before and hugging her tight before he left for the airport.
The plane was low now, only about 900 feet high, and the silvery twin towers of the World Trade Center rose above the tip of Manhattan.
In the Windows on the World restaurant on the 107th floor of the north tower, dozens of businessmen, members of the exclusive World Trade Center Club, were enjoying a leisurely breakfast and the spectacular view when Flight 11 slammed into the building 20 floors below.
It was 8:48 a.m.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Capt. John Ogonowski, American Airlines pilot on Flight 11. (Associated Press) Map of the east coast shows the route of American Flight 11.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORISM (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); BALLET (55%); RELIGION (50%) TERRORISM; LOGAN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (BOSTON); HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; LOGAN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (BOSTON, MASS) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (84%); BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: KIFNER, JOHN; OGONOWSKI, JOHN (CAPT) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; BOSTON (MASS); LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



344 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
Struggling to Find Words for a Horror Beyond Words

BYLINE:  By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:
Language failed this week.
 "Beyond comprehension," "beyond our worst imaginings," "beyond belief" -- those were the phrases heard again and again in the last two days. As people struggled to describe the events of Tuesday morning, they reached for metaphors and analogies that might capture the horror of what they had seen. One witness on NBC local news described the World Trade Center collapse as "one more circle of Dante's hell." Brian Williams on MSNBC compared it to Mount St. Helen's. Tom Brokaw on NBC compared it to "nuclear winter." Diane Sawyer on ABC compared it to standing on "the edge of a crater of a volcano." 
 Chris Matthews said it was "bigger than the Hindenberg, bigger than the Titanic." Many others invoked Pearl Harbor, but no one could come up a phrase like President Franklin D. Roosevelt's "Day of Infamy," which summed up the nation's sense of terror and grief and anger. 
In a day when hype and hyperbole have become a staple of cable news, in a day when the word "reality" has become associated with stage-managed fame-fests like "Survivor" and "Big Brother," words felt devalued and inadequate to capture the disasters at the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and near Pittsburgh. After all, we live in a culture where inflationary phrases like "nuclear scenario" were attached to the developments in last year's Florida election imbroglio, a culture in which cable television networks have repeatedly cried wolf, devoting hours of sensationalistic and alarmist coverage to shark attacks only a week or two ago.
For some time now, reality has felt increasingly surreal, increasingly impervious to the efforts of writers to show us "the way we live now," in Trollope's words.
"The American writer in the middle of the 20th century has his hands full in trying to understand, describe and then make credible much of American reality," wrote Philip Roth in an essay in Commentary magazine. "It stupefies, it sickens, it infuriates, and finally it is even a kind of embarrassment to one's own meager imagination. The actuality is continually outdoing our talents, and the culture tosses up figures almost daily that are the envy of any novelist."
Those words were not written in response to this week's terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. They were written back in 1961, before the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, before the assassinations of Robert F. Kennedy and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., before the social upheavals of the late 60's, before Vietnam, Watergate, the Clinton follies and last year's election standoff.
Because reality seemed so absurd, so "chaotic, fragmented, random, discontinuous," in Tom Wolfe's words, many novelists abandoned the effort to write about American public life in the wake of the 60's. Some, like Ann Beattie, Harold Brodkey and for many years Mr. Roth, focused on the private realm of the self, on the convolutions of the individual psyche. Others, like John Barth and Donald Barthelme, contented themselves with performing postmodern experiments with fable, farce and recycled fairy tales.
Given our democratic government and pragmatic philosophic outlook, magical realism -- as practiced by writers from Latin America, Eastern Europe, India and Africa as a narrative strategy for grappling with turbulent political realities that elude naturalistic description -- was never really mastered in this country. In the hands of American writers like Alice Hoffman, it all too often devolved into cuteness and whimsy, devoid of a historical context.
Mr. Wolfe -- who wrote a famous manifesto urging novelists to "head out into this wild, bizarre, unpredictable, hog-stomping Baroque country of ours and reclaim it as literary property" -- attempted to pen big, sprawling, Dickensian novels based on lots of legwork and reporting, and writers like Don DeLillo, Richard Price and Robert Stone did find their own anomalous ways of tackling the social canvas of late-20th-century American life. Mr. Wolfe's 1987 novel, "The Bonfire of the Vanities," which featured a Harlem minister who uses his gifts of gab and spin control to orchestrate racial outrage, proved eerily prophetic, appearing months before the events involving Tawana Brawley and the Rev. Al Sharpton broke in the news.
For the most part, however, large-scale terrorist plots and huge public disasters -- so sensationalist in tone, seemingly so far removed from our daily reality -- have remained the province of commercial screenwriters and novelists like Tom Clancy, whose 1994 novel, "Debt of Honor," featured a plot in which a Boeing 747 is crashed by a Japanese airman into the Capitol building during a joint session of Congress, killing virtually everyone. The Sylvester Stallone movie "Daylight" postulated a disastrous explosion in the Holland Tunnel; "Die Hard 2" showed terrorists taking over the air control system at Dulles Airport and crashing an airplane; and "Black Sunday" depicted a extremist group planning to blow up the Superbowl with explosives loaded on a blimp. "Executive Decision" depicted Arab terrorists armed with a nerve-gas bomb who take control of a 747 and head for Washington.
Inevitably, many witnesses and television commentators on Tuesday turned to film analogies to describe what they had seen. In a culture that promotes Jerry Bruckheimer's "Pearl Harbor" as a big summer entertainment, in a culture besotted with disaster movies, there was an initial sense of deja vu and disbelief on the part of these spectators -- the impulse to see what was happening as one of those digital special effects from the big screen. This couldn't really be happening, they suggested; this is something from the realm of pulp fiction, unaccountably thrust into the province of real life. "It is apocalyptic," said Jack Valenti, head of the Motion Picture Association. An air travel consultant on MSNBC said that people looking at the disaster thought they were seeing "Die Hard 2, Die Hard 6." A cameraman on CNN said it was "like covering a very bad horror movie." Images of the World Trade Center exploding and collapsing into a pile of rubble; images of people running for their lives through the canyons of Wall Street; images of smoke and fire billowing from the caved-in walls of the Pentagon -- these images, shown on an endless loop on every television station, were repeatedly compared to the destruction of New York and Washington in "Independence Day"; the terror of the people trapped in the twin towers to "Towering Inferno."
It may seem trivializing -- even obscene -- to talk about movies in the same breath as this week's tragedy, but the fact that so many people did was a symptom of our inability to get our minds around this disaster, our inability to find real-life precedents, real-life analogies for what happened in the morning hours of Sept. 11.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pedestrians fleeing the area of the World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan as the center's south tower collapsed on Tuesday. (Associated Press)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); ASSASSINATION (88%); TERRORISM (87%); WRITERS (85%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); HIJACKING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); CABLE TELEVISION (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%) TERRORISM; LANGUAGE AND LANGUAGES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (76%); DIANE SAWYER (56%) KAKUTANI, MICHIKO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



345 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE CONFERENCES; 
Gatherings Of Leaders Now a Cause For Concern

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept.12 

 BODY:
Officials have canceled or are preparing to cancel at least two major international meetings in Washington and New York that had been expected to attract heads of state and other top world leaders.
 The United Nations General Assembly voted today to postpone indefinitely a special session on children, which it had scheduled for Sept. 19 to Sept. 21 in New York. About 80 world leaders, including President Bush, had been expected to attend. 
 Officials of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund also said they expected that their annual meeting, an event scheduled for Washington that was widely considered a prime target of antiglobalization protesters, would be canceled. The Bush administration said today that it had not decided whether to cancel the session, from Sept. 28 to Sept. 29. 
The police in Washington said it should not be held. "I don't think it takes a brain surgeon to see that's not the best idea right now," Chief Charles H. Ramsey said.
The bank and the I.M.F. have held annual meetings of member governments each year since their founding shortly after World War II.
Officials of the United Nations, the World Bank and the I.M.F. said they worried about holding large gatherings of world leaders because the coordinated terrorist attacks in New York and Washington had strained security forces.
It is unclear whether the heightened fears of attacks will encourage leaders to forego or scale back other international gatherings that have become showpieces of globalization. Such forums are high-profile arenas for officials, business leaders, medical experts and others to share ideas and harmonize approaches to global problems.
Given the Middle Eastern site and the possibility of reprisals against suspected terrorists, questions have also been raised about a trade meeting in November in Doha, Qatar. A spokesman for the World Trade Organization said there had been no change in plans for the session, where leaders hope to agree to liberalize trade rules.
Even before the attacks on Tuesday, political leaders and police officials around the world have complained about the high cost of providing security for visiting dignitaries. Leaders at recent international financial meetings in Seattle, Prague, Montreal and Genoa have encountered demonstrations by protesters who oppose economic integration.
Anarchist cells among the demonstrators have used violence to attract attention, often damaging property and turning urban centers into combat zones. In Genoa, the police fatally shot one demonstrator in July at a summit meeting of industrialized nations.
Last week, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy asked the United Nations, which had planned a food summit meeting in early November in Rome, to find another site. He said that after the Genoa incident he felt that the food meeting would put ancient ruins at risk. 
A senior United Nations official who helps arrange its frequent global conferences, Shashi Tharoor, said the postponement of the New York session on children and the relocation of the Rome meetings were onetime events, not indicators that global summit meetings had become impossible. He said that if such meetings were scaled back, a vital tool for spreading economic, environmental and social policies would be lost. 
"These meetings have an enormously important role in crystalizing thinking, building consensus and promoting action," Mr. Tharoor said. "You look at any issue like global warming, AIDS, sustainable development -- these got a major boost from global summits."
Financial meetings are perhaps the most vulnerable in the current environment. Protest threats in Washington had already forced the World Bank and the I.M.F. to shorten their annual meeting to two days from five and to prepare to cordon off a site downtown with a nine-foot-high wall.
Officials at the two agencies said the threats had forced them to cancel the most open parts of their meetings, when developing countries, bankers, officials and accredited groups mingled with one another at conferences and cocktail parties.
Some protest groups have celebrated in the past when financial leaders were forced to curtail meetings. But mainstream protesters say they aimed to open up such conclaves, not end them, and they expressed concern today that terrorist events might force a cancellation.
"We too are handicapped in our ability to reach out to the public and get our message out" if the meeting are canceled, said Soren Ambrose, a protest organizer with one group, 50 Years Are Enough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (87%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RIOTS (74%); AIRLINES (72%); HIJACKING (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); WORLD WAR II (66%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%); SHOOTINGS (65%); HISTORIC SITES (63%); RELOCATIONS (63%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%) KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); QATAR (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ITALY (67%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



346 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Demands of Leadership 

 BODY:
George W. Bush is facing multiple challenges, but his most important job is a simple matter of leadership. The nation, reeling from this week's terrorist attacks, needs to see its president in control, ready to make tough decisions for the right reasons. Expressing determination to punish the people who organized the assaults on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon is important, but not nearly enough.
 The administration spent much of yesterday trying to overcome the impression that Mr. Bush showed weakness when he did not immediately return to Washington after the terrorists struck. That is not the issue that most concerns the American people. If the Secret Service felt the president would be safer somewhere else, the country is prepared to accept that and move on. What matters now is what Mr. Bush plans to do next. The disturbing part of the administration's performance on Tuesday was the refusal of the president or any member of his cabinet to field questions about the fast-moving and frightening events. For most of the day, while the nation watched pictures of the World Trade Center towers toppling, the only visible figure in Washington was Karen Hughes, counselor to the president, who declined to take questions. 
 The fact that Mr. Bush has begun to visit the attack sites is welcome news. The president has always been good at connecting with average Americans, and his rightful place now is lending support to the people who have lived through these catastrophes. This is particularly true in New York. There has never been much love lost between the city and this chief executive, but New Yorkers need to see, in this crisis, that he is their president too.
Mr. Bush has already called for a new tone in Washington, comparable to what a nation summons in wartime. The president has frequently committed himself to a bipartisan approach in government, and now is the time to honor that pledge. Some wartime presidents broadened their cabinets to include members of the opposition. Mr. Bush need not reshape his government, but he does need to reach across the aisle to Democratic Congressional leaders for ideas as well as support. The challenges, after all, may include a rethinking of priorities on defense and security, something that cannot be carried out without transcending partisan politics.
In the days ahead, Mr. Bush may be asking the nation to support military actions that many citizens, particularly those with relatives in the service, will find alarming. To lead well, he must convince the nation that his decisions are both smart and principled. The nation relies on him to be above a personal impulse for revenge. Being angry is a luxury reserved for the public, which counts on the president to exercise more measured judgment. 
He must also show that he knows what he is doing. Mr. Bush came to the White House with as little preparation in international affairs as any modern president. That does not suggest he will be unable to rise to the occasion. But it does mean that the nation will be watching him somewhat nervously, in need of assurance that he is making wise decisions. The best way he can earn the country's confidence is by appearing frequently in public, and by not being afraid to answer questions. In the last two days, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Gov. George Pataki of New York have tirelessly made themselves available to an uneasy public that needed reassurance. Often it was enough to see them acknowledge that they did not know all the answers.
On the economic front, the attacks this week obviously came at a fragile moment. No president can use words to change basic economic trends. But both Bill Clinton and Ronald Reagan understood that a president can help to generate confidence by statements and actions. Mr. Bush should summon business leaders and economic experts to show that he will do what is necessary to restore that confidence and help the nation's financial center get back on its feet.
Mr. Bush remains an untested figure in the eyes of many Americans. His words have shown that he well understands the dimensions of the challenge that he now faces. He can best find his voice, and lead, by actively and visibly engaging and sharing his thinking and his confidence in the future. Americans are more than ready to rise up and give him their support. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%) TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



347 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE ECONOMY; 
In Wounded Financial Center, Trying to Head Off Defections

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani met with business leaders yesterday afternoon to ask for their help in rebuilding the city after the World Trade Center collapse.
 "Obviously, there's a very, very substantial economic impact on the city," the mayor said at a news conference yesterday. But, he added, the city would emerge "economically stronger." 
 Some business executives are far gloomier, however, especially those in the real estate industry. They say they fear that more companies will move their operations out of New York City to places with lower costs, more available land and fewer risks. 
"For all the talk that will come about patriotically rebuilding the city, you are going to have a hard time getting companies to commit given the high level of uncertainty about the area," said Peter Pattison, the president of Pattison Limited, which helped develop several buildings in Lower Manhattan. "I wonder whether there will be a lot of people who say that the big city is too uncertain, it is too susceptible to these things, and ask themselves why would they want to live here again."
The World Trade Center was an economic engine for the financial district. It accounted for about 10 percent of downtown's office space and was unusual for the area because it was relatively new and had large, open floors that financial firms found appealing.
While the commercial vacancy rate has been rising, there is not enough empty space to replace the more than 20 million square feet of office space that disappeared with the collapse of the center and damage to surrounding buildings, real estate executives said.
A new committee of civic and business leaders is trying to come up with a long-term solution to the space shortage, said Kathryn Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, which was among the groups that met with the mayor yesterday. And in the short run, she said, companies and hotels are offering vacant space to displaced businesses.
The partnership is trying to help arrange loans and other assistance for companies that need it, she said. It is also involved in finding temporary jobs for employees of companies that cannot immediately reopen.
While many executives are still in shock over the attack, she said, "I think the mayor was right. The potential economic impact on New York's future is huge if we don't move immediately to deal with it."
About 14,000 businesses in Lower Manhattan have been affected by the disaster, and many of them are represented by the Alliance for Downtown New York, the business improvement district. But Carl Weisbrod, the group's president, said it was hard to focus on economic issues. "I think that at the moment everyone is just so focused on saving whatever human life can be saved that no one has given any thought beyond that," he said.
With the area closed off, and their stores and restaurants dark, owners of the host of small businesses in the area were unable to examine the damage or begin to calculate how the disaster had affected them.
At Century 21, the discount department store chain, Raymond Gindi, the chief operating officer, said he had not yet visited his 40-year-old flagship store at 22 Cortlandt Street, across from the trade center. But he said he expected it to be closed for repairs for a minimum of 60 days. Although the store draws customers from all over the city, he said, "the World Trade Center was the major hub of the whole downtown."
Trying to evaluate the overall cost of the disaster to the city is impossible right now, economists and city officials said. Some consequences, however, are obvious. The loss of the trade center will have a pronounced effect on the city's revenues. The city gets more than $20 million of payments in lieu of taxes from the Port Authority, which owns the complex, and had hoped to reap as much as $100 million a year in payments after a private developer, Silverstein Properties, leased it this year.
But that money, which several mayoral candidates said they planned to use to finance housing programs, is now extremely unlikely to materialize. Silverstein Properties has declined to comment.
The effect of the collapse on tourism is also a concern. After the trade center was bombed by terrorists in 1993, the number of visitors to the city dropped sharply, from about 27.9 million in 1992 to 25.8 million in 1994, according to NYC & Company, the city's tourism organization.
Tourism has since rebounded -- about 37.4 million people visited the city last year -- and has become a very important employer, especially of workers without specialized skills. Hotel and restaurant executives were among those who met with the mayor yesterday.
Wall Street, which has fueled the city's economic expansion but has recently fallen into a precarious financial position, is liable to be further battered by the costs of dealing with the disaster. Furthermore, many analysts predict that when the stock market reopens, the price of shares will sink again, which will add to financial firms' troubles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); RELOCATIONS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); TRENDS (71%); TERRORISM (64%); HIJACKING (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%) TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SMALL BUSINESS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (89%) EATON, LESLIE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



348 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE CONGRESS; 
Differences Are Put Aside As Lawmakers Reconvene

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL and RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
The Congress that reopened today was transformed into a unity government, its bitter divisions erased overnight by the worst act of terrorism on American soil and the widespread sentiment that the nation was at war.
 Lawmakers and party leaders offered wholehearted support for whatever action President Bush chose to take, and Congress prepared to pour vast new resources into reconstruction, the Pentagon and the battle against terrorism. The Senate voted unanimously to declare a day of "unity and mourning" and to put money into a "war to eradicate terrorism." The House stood ready to follow. 
 "We literally and figuratively stand shoulder to shoulder," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the majority leader.
Officials of both parties shelved their partisan talking points and called for swift retaliation against the attackers.
"I say bomb the hell out of them," said Senator Zell Miller, Democrat of Georgia. "If there's collateral damage, so be it. They certainly found our civilians to be expendable."
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, also called for forceful retaliation, saying: "God will forgive them. We won't. We must act with force and effectiveness and not rule out any force short of nuclear weapons."
The fierce battle that raged only days ago over the budget and the Social Security surplus evaporated.
"Everything has changed," said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. "We've been attacked. This is a war when you are attacked."
Before the assaults on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, Mr. Bush had said that only a war or a recession would cause him to break his pledge not to spend the Social Security surplus. Many lawmakers said this was indeed war.
Lawmakers said they would move quickly to approve up to $20 billion in an emergency recovery package, after Democrats balked at giving Mr. Bush open-ended spending authority. The Senate also planned to speed confirmations at crucial agencies. John Negroponte, the president's nominee to be United Nations representative, was to be considered in committee on Thursday.
"The political war will cease," said Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana. "The war we have now is the war against terrorism. And that's going to be the No. 1, 2 and 3 priority for the rest of the year."
There was perhaps no better indicator of the mood than Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's praise of Mr. Bush, in the most eloquent speech of her short Senate career.
Calling on her colleagues to offer full support to the president, Mrs. Clinton said she was "someone who for eight years had some sense of the burdens and responsibilities that fall on the shoulders of the human beings we make our president."
She added, "It is an awesome and sometimes awful responsibility for that person."
Theodore J. Lowi, a professor of government at Cornell University, said the political dynamic had moved even beyond bipartisanship.
"We will be operating as if we have a national unity party," Professor Lowi said. "That means alternative voices will be suppressed. And this may last through this session of Congress. The important domestic policy issues have dropped out of sight, especially the education issue."
Tom Cole, a former chief of staff for the Republican Party, said there was far more incentive for bipartisanship than during the Persian Gulf war, when Congress was divided over the appropriate course.
"Bush will have the ability to count on genuine support from the Democrats," Mr. Cole said. "They know that's the right thing to do from a patriotic point of view -- and it's the smart thing politically as well."
There were still some cautious voices calling for a balance between security and civil liberties.
"Pearl Harbor led to the internment camps of Japanese-Americans," said Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan.
And not everyone agreed that the unity would last through the session. Tensions already simmered below the surface. Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, in a warning to Congress about leaks of classified information, spoke out against those who would "reveal information that could cost the lives of men and women in uniform."
And several members of Congress who attended briefings featuring officials of the C.I.A., the F.B.I. and cabinet agencies, complained about a lack of information.
"It was nothing I didn't know from a variety of other sources," said Representative Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey. "It was totally inept, totally unacceptable."
But the frustrations were overshadowed by anger. Some called for Congress to pass an outright declaration of war, and aides said serious discussions of what it would say and what powers the president would need to prosecute the terrorists were going on behind the scenes. Even usually liberal Democrats were ready to look at new powers for the nation's intelligence agencies.
Asked whether he would be willing to reconsider the C.I.A.'s ban on assassination, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said, "I think we have to examine everything."
Both parties appeared ready to put new money into the intelligence agencies.
"The threat is different," said Representative Porter J. Goss, Republican of Florida, who is chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. "The response must be different."
The truce extended to the national parties. Terry McAuliffe, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said it was not a difficult decision for him to call off the party's national meeting, which was to begin today in Miami. Instead, Mr. McAuliffe said, he went to the Red Cross to give blood in a gesture of unity. "The budget debate and everything else is on the back burner now," he said.
At the Republican National Committee, officials said they had excised blatantly political material from the party's Web site and halted fund-raising.
"Partisanship at this point is exactly the wrong approach," said Gov. James S. Gilmore III of Virginia, the party chairman.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Trent Lott, J. Dennis Hastert, Don Nickles, Tom Daschle, Harry Reid and Dick Armey at the White House yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (76%); TOM DASCHLE (70%); KENT CONRAD (58%); HARRY REID (58%); TRENT LOTT (58%) MITCHELL, ALISON; BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



349 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
In a Crisis, The Giuliani We Wanted

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
MARY CITARELLA had something to say, and though she couldn't quite believe that she was saying it, she did so without qualification. "I am not a supporter of Mayor Giuliani, but he was so elegant," the scenic artist said yesterday in Union Square Park as she visited a makeshift memorial. "I have newfound love for him, for what he said about how we are a multicultural city, we can't begin to single out cultures, harbor ill feelings. He sounded like a real leader. I didn't feel that way about President Bush. Did you hear him?"
 New Yorkers like to say that they have a knack for picking the right leader for the right time. That has not always been so, but it has been sometimes: the city elected John V. Lindsay, and though his mayoralty was very flawed, he got us through the tumultuous 1960's without the kind of rioting that crippled other cities. Edward I. Koch was the city's choice to restore fiscal stability after its brush with bankruptcy. And now Rudolph W. Giuliani, in the last leg of his mayoralty, is the one leading the city back from a disaster of unspeakable magnitude. And he has impressed even critics with his effectiveness and, yes, sensitivity. 
 It's almost as if enduring the brashness, the shrillness and the impatience, even that silly Decency Commission and not-so-silly intolerance for the First Amendment was the price we had to pay to ensure that Mr. Giuliani would be in charge when terrorism assaulted his city.
The mayor is proving to be an effective leader because, as Michael D. Hess, the corporation counsel, noted yesterday, this is what the mayor excels at like no other. At managing in a time of crisis, let's face it, America, the mayor of New York trumps the president of the United States, who looks small and scripted to a lot of New Yorkers (and maybe non-New Yorkers) compared with Mr. Giuliani. And by the way, shouldn't the president have made it his business to plant his feet in New York City by now? Soon, the White House says; he doesn't want to disrupt rescue operations.
Mr. Giuliani has, of course, been nowhere but in the city, and he has been very visible, visiting the attack site, talking to the public. He seems to realize that New Yorkers need a symbol of stability, need to know someone is in control when everything is out of control. When that symbol is missing, the city feels it. It suffered through riots when policing broke down in the summer of 1991, and was hit with looting during the blackout of 1977, when Abraham D. Beame was mayor. Appearing ineffective, he was soon defeated.
MR. GIULIANI, not running for re-election because of term limits, would probably win a new term tomorrow. It's funny, but he's turned himself into precisely what the candidates who want to succeed him say they promise to be: the best of Giuliani without the worst.
Since the disaster on Tuesday, the defensiveness and combativeness that can make the mayor so very unattractive have disappeared. The public has seen a calm and honest Giuliani, even one not afraid to show emotion at the awful loss and terrible suffering as he encourages the city to come back to itself.
Leading in times of trouble is part cheerleading, part cajoling, part empathizing, and mayor has been playing all parts.
"We're going to rebuild," he promised at his morning briefing yesterday. "We're going to come out of this stronger than we were before. Emotionally stronger, politically stronger, economically stronger."
Later, he reported that there had been some ethnic provocations of people believed to be of Arab descent. Rather than lose his temper, as he ordinarily would have, he quietly said. "Nobody should attack anybody else. That's what we're dealing with, right now. We are dealing with insanity, with sick hatred."
Not everyone agreed with his timetable for getting the city to return to normal, if it can ever return to normal. Some teachers and parents said he was rushing to reopen the schools today, because many children are not emotionally ready.
The mayor also wanted the theaters, dark since Tuesday, to open last night, but they will instead tonight because crews couldn't get in to work, explained Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization.
But if in a rush, the mayor had his reasons. Returning to normal "shows we are not afraid, shows confidence," he explained.
You can argue with his timing, his bravado, but not with his philosophy. It's hard to argue with anything he's done all week. That will change, no doubt. But for now, it's intriguing to watch the newly tone-perfect mayor, and to ponder how the last eight years might have been. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERM LIMITS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); RIOTS (72%); TERRORISM (69%); HIJACKING (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) PURNICK, JOYCE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



350 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2169 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE OVERVIEW; 
STUNNED RESCUERS COMB ATTACK SITES, BUT THOUSANDS ARE PRESUMED DEAD; F.B.I. TRACKING HIJACKERS' MOVEMENTS

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
Rescuers combed mountains of rubble at what had been the World Trade Center yesterday in a grim search for survivors among the thousands presumed dead in its collapse. Investigators meantime cast a worldwide net for those behind the hijackers who slammed jetliners into the twin towers in New York City and the Pentagon in Virginia in the worst terrorist attack in American history.
 The first clues to the identity of those responsible pointed toward five suspects whose movements appear to have taken them to Boston, Canada and Florida, and suggested that the hijackers had Middle Eastern and Islamic connections. 
 John Ashcroft, the attorney general, said investigators believed that each of the commandeered planes had been hijacked by groups of three to six men armed with box cutters and plastic knives that would have been difficult for airport security officials to detect. There were no arrests in the case, however, and officials said the inquiry might take weeks or months. 
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said that 82 bodies had been recovered from the smoking wreckage of the World Trade Center, a fraction of the thousands he said were presumed dead.
Businesses and government agencies struggled to count their losses. Fire officials said 350 firefighters were missing or dead. Dozens of police officers and other emergency workers were still unaccounted for. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said it lost as many as 200 employees. Three of the hundreds of companies that had offices in the towers said they alone could not account for about 1,500 of their workers. Two hundred sixty-six people died on the four hijacked jets, and officials estimated that about 200 had died at the Pentagon.
There was no continuation of the terrorist assaults yesterday, as many had feared, but there were further collapses in the rubble. A nation that had been aghast and mostly shut down on Tuesday tried to move back toward a semblance of normal life. Across the country, businesses, shopping malls, government offices and skyscrapers reopened. But except for a limited number of flights, commercial aviation remained at a standstill.
Federal aviation officials, who had hoped to reopen the skyways, said that most planes would stay grounded until new security measures could be put in place at the nation's airports. Only those flights that had been diverted on Tuesday -- about 2,000 planes in the air at the time of the attacks -- were allowed to continue to their destinations yesterday.
But a vast majority of America's 35,000 to 40,000 daily flights remained on tarmacs, and there were reports that a growing number of travelers feared flying and were canceling reservations and taking ground transportation. 
The Federal Aviation Administration's new security measures at airports called for prohibiting knives of any size on board planes; ending curbside check-ins; and eliminating cargo and mail from passenger jets. They also ordered greater scrutiny of planes between flights and of unattended vehicles near terminals. 
The nation's stock markets were not expected to reopen before tomorrow or perhaps Monday. The New York Stock Exchange, its shutdown already the longest since World War II, said it wanted to do nothing to interrupt the search and recovery operations a few blocks away.
With jittery financial markets around the world sagging in the wake of the attack, central banks moved to restore calm and ease fears yesterday that the terrorist attack would lead to a global economic crisis or tip the fragile American economy into recession. The Federal Reserve Board injected $38.25 billion into the financial system by buying government bonds from investment houses. Typically it buys only a few billion dollars in bonds in a day.
The scenes of attack -- the Pentagon, with one of its five sides in ruins, and the trade center, whose twin towers and two other buildings had fallen -- continued to smolder as firefighters and rescue teams hoping for miracles probed the debris in round-the-clock operations.
New York City was far from normal, with financial markets, airports, schools and Broadway theaters closed. Hospitals and morgues braced for casualties in horrendous numbers. The United Nations was evacuated by a bomb threat. While commuter lines, subways and buses resumed near-normal schedules and schools were to reopen today, Manhattan below 14th Street was a no man's land, with transportation and most businesses down. The toppled trade center resembled a nuclear winter war zone.
The danger and drama of the search for victims was captured in the rescue of one woman shortly after noon from a pocket of rubble that had been a pedestrian walkway over the West Side Highway. Fire trucks lay buried in the rubble as well, said Joe Lashendock, an ironworker and rescue team member.
"Firefighters came across a lady and a fireman," he said. "The lady was alive. Firefighters went down in the hole. She requested water. They sent in a basket and a neck brace.
"We all made a chain. She was breathing. Her hand was moving. We said, 'We're going to get you out of here.' She just looked at us. It makes it all worthwhile for the one."
What at first seemed to be one firefighter turned out to be a group of them, all apparently dead. The rescuers were forced to leave the men buried, fearing a further collapse that would endanger more lives. Late in the afternoon, a five-story pile of rubble, a jagged spire of steel and concrete, toppled in on itself. No one was hurt, but hundreds of rescue workers fled for cover.
As a stunned nation reeled with televised images of death and destruction and an almost wartime fervor against a faceless enemy gripped many Americans, President Bush, who had placed American military forces on alert around the world, called the attacks "acts of war," and vowed to hunt down and punish those responsible in a "monumental struggle of good versus evil."
On Capitol Hill, the House and Senate passed a joint resolution expressing unanimous support for the President and for government efforts to track down the terrorists. It also spoke of a nation united in efforts to recover and rebuild. But the new agenda in Washington was sure to include debate over the effectiveness of American intelligence and airport security in a nation that had been taken by surprise in a precisely planned attack.
Around the world, America's allies and even many nominal foes voiced revulsion at the attack, and condolences for families of the casualties. North Korea, Libya, Syria, Sudan and Iran, which have been accused by the United States of abetting terrorism, joined the condemnations.
The 19 nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, in a powerful message of solidarity, unanimously invoked its collective defense clause for the first time in the organization's 52-year history, pledging to regard the attack on America as an attack on all the treaty nations, which would support any retaliation if the attackers were identified.
In a telephone interview from Gaza yesterday, Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, voiced compassion for the attack victims and angrily rejected accounts that some Palestinians had rejoiced over the attack. Asked about television pictures of Palestinian celebrations, he insisted that "it was less than 10 children in East Jerusalem, and we punished them."
Other groups linked to attacks on Israelis -- including Hamas, Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine -- denied responsibility. But an Iraqi newspaper applauded the attack, calling it due punishment for America's crimes.
No one took immediate responsibility for the attack, but speculation focused on Osama bin Laden, the Saudi exile living in Afghanistan who is blamed for the 1998 attacks on two American embassies in Africa. Afghanistan's Taliban rulers voiced skepticism that Mr. bin Laden was involved and issued a plea to be spared from attack, pointing to Afghanistan's poverty.
Investigators said the initial clues pointed toward Boston, Canada and Florida. They said that five Arab men had been identified as suspects and that a rented car thought to have been used by the suspects had been seized at Logan Airport in Boston, where the two hijacked jets that rammed the trade center towers had originated. The Boston Herald reported that the car contained flight training manuals.
In a pair of bags designated for American Airlines Flight 11, one of the hijacked jets, investigators found a copy of the Koran, a videotape on flying commercial jets and a fuel consumption calculator, The Boston Globe said. Federal investigators said that the suspects may have entered the United States from Canada. The Boston Herald quoted investigators as saying that two were brothers with passports from the United Arab Emirates and that one was a pilot.
Other investigators said that heavily armed teams of Federal agents detained three men for questioning and searched a room at a Westin Hotel in the Copley Plaza in Boston. The three, an official said, were being held as material witnesses after using a credit card believed to have been used to buy some of the hijackers' tickets.
Federal agents were also looking into known bin Laden supporters in Florida. They executed search warrants at four homes in Davie and an apartment in Coral Springs, near Fort Lauderdale, and searched businesses in Hollywood and a home in Sarasota County on the Gulf Coast. It was unclear if anyone was arrested.
Charlie Voss, a former employee at Huffman Aviation in Venice, Fla., said agents questioned him about two men who stayed with him during their flight training last year. He said they told him a car found at Logan had been registered to the two men, one he knew as Mohamed Atta and the other only as Marwan. He said the men took flight training on small planes at Venice Municipal Airport.
Most of the casualties were believed to be in the rubble of the trade center. Many of the 40,000 to 50,000 people who usually worked there had not yet arrived when the planes struck, and many managed to escape before the towers collapsed.
"The best estimate we can make, relying on the Port Authority and just about everybody else that has experience with this, is there will be a few thousand people left in each building," Mayor Giuliani said in an evening briefing. 
He said that five people -- other officials put the number at six -- had been found alive and extricated from the rubble. He also cited reports that cell phone calls had been received from victims caught in pockets of rubble, and said that no effort would be spared to find them. He said 1,700 were known injured. 
Fire officials said whole companies of firefighters were missing, along with each of the five elite rescue units that served the five boroughs, in the worst disaster in Fire Department history. Most were caught in the collapses after rushing in to rescue people.
Mr. Giuliani said that Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive officer of General Electric, had donated $10 million to a fund for the families of police officers, firefighters and other emergency workers who were killed.
Asked if the World Trade Center would be rebuilt, the mayor said, "There's no question we're going to rebuild. I can't say that we know the exact nature yet of how we're going to do that," but he added: "The skyline will be made whole again."
Gov. George E. Pataki said that search and rescue teams, firefighters and National Guard troops were being augmented by reinforcements from states and counties in the region and from Puerto Rico. "They're risking their lives to try to save their friends and their colleagues and the New Yorkers who are still trapped," he said.
Marsh & McLennan, a money management firm, said about 700 employees who worked in one tower were still missing. Keefe Bruyette & Woods, a securities company that advises banks on mergers, said half of its 170 workers had not been accounted for. Cantor Fitzgerald, a major player in the government bond market, said 730 employees were missing from the 1,000-member trade center work force.
The Port Authority, which owned the trade center and had offices there, said 200 members of its staff were missing, including 35 Port Authority police officers and commanders who were involved in the early rescue efforts. More than 150 Port Authority officers were part of the search and rescue operations.
The Port Authority, which operates many bridges and tunnels and the three major metropolitan airports, said the upper level of the George Washington Bridge and the Staten Island bridges were reopened in both directions, while the Lincoln and Holland Tunnels remained closed.
The airports remained in a virtual lockdown for most of the day, although last night they were ready to receive any of the diverted flights whose continuation had been authorized by federal authorities. Check-in counters were empty at the terminals. "It's like a ghost town," said Hugo Chavez, a ground crew member at La Guardia. "All we need is the tumbleweed blowing through." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rescue workers yesterday searched through the debris that was the World Trade Center in a grim and danger-filled effort to recover victims. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); TERRORISM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); HISTORY (56%); RELIGION (55%); RETAILERS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FIRES AND FIREMEN; POLICE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%) PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; AMERICAN AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES; FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (71%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); ASHCROFT, JOHN (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; FLORIDA; MASSACHUSETTS; CANADA

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001 



351 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: PHOTOGRAPHY REVIEW; 
Postcards From Eternity

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN 

 BODY:
IN 1849, Maxime Du Camp and his friend Gustave Flaubert set off for Egypt. Du Camp had wangled an assignment from the French government to photograph monuments and sites, even though he had never taken photographs before. Flaubert, for his part, ignored his brief from the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce to collect information about Egyptian crops and ships. Instead he kept a diary, wrote letters and eagerly plunged into the sort of local entertainment that required him to receive mercury treatments for the remainder of his life.
 Among the side benefits of the Met's "Along the Nile" -- a gem of an exhibition of early photographs of Egypt, newly arrived with no fanfare and only a brief accompanying pamphlet -- is that it can inspire you to reread "Flaubert in Egypt," the travel classic. Looking at Du Camp's photographs after reading Flaubert, you should be able to conjure up the writer just outside the picture frame. There he was in his long white shirt, his shaved head topped by a red tarboosh, settled into the cool shade of a nearby temple, reading Charles de Bernard and feeling oh so exquisitely bored. 
 Before he left France, Flaubert had imagined climbing the Great Pyramid "half dead on the stone, amidst the carcasses of birds come there to die." 
"But lift your head!" he wrote. "Look! Look! And you will see cities with domes of gold and minarets of porcelain, palaces of lava built on plinths of alabaster, marble-rimmed pools where sultanas come to bathe their bodies at the hour when the moon makes bluer the shadow of the groves and more limpid the silvery water of the fountains."
That, however, was before Flaubert arrived. "From our very first days in Cairo I had been aware of his lassitude," Du Camp complained. "The temples seemed to him always alike, the mosques and the landscapes all the same." Here is Flaubert's diary entry for March 29, 1850, from Abu Simbel: "The Egyptian temples bore me profoundly," he confessed. "Oh necessity! To do what you are supposed to do; to be always, according to the circumstances (and despite the aversion of the moment) what a young man, or a tourist, or an artist, or a son, or a citizen, etc. is supposed to be!"
That happened to be the same day that Du Camp had the crew of their Nile riverboat clear the dunes burying the colossal face of Ramses II so that he could take what must be the first great tourist photograph of Egypt, with an assistant posing on top of the sculpture, the ancestor of all those shots of Mom and Uncle Burt squinting into the camera and smiling next to the Sphinx.
It is the most famous of the Du Camps in the show, all of them rare prints, subtler and more beautiful than the usual prints by Du Camp, with a straight-on documentary intent, suffused with romance. Egypt was no longer unknown in Europe, and Egyptomania wasn't a new phenomenon. European tourists crowded Cairo bars and hotels by the time Du Camp and Flaubert got there. (The owner of the Hotel du Nil, where Flaubert stayed, was M. Bouvaret, a name he slightly altered and made good use of later.)
But no one had taken photographs of Egypt, photography being just a decade old, and in Du Camp you can see a new medium used to capture sights afresh -- an opportunity seized to show everybody back home what they knew only from artists' and archaeologists' more or less fanciful drawings, paintings and prints. In some cases there was even the chance to rediscover sites that had been dug up earlier in the century to be buried again by the swiftly shifting sands: the amateur photographer as archaeologist.
Du Camp didn't like taking pictures, which in the desert and at that time was incredibly tedious. "If, some day, my soul is condemned to eternal damnation, it will be in punishment for the rage, the fury, the vexation of all kinds caused me by my photography," he wrote. But having received a few lessons from the photographer Gustave Le Gray before he left France so that he wouldn't be totally unprepared, Du Camp quickly developed a feel for the intricacies of the medium, smartly exploiting its in-between tonalities and lighting effects to convey the most evocative qualities of sun, stone and sand.
His image of Ramses is an example, both monumental and sweet: Ramses gazes impassively into eternity, unperturbed by the tiny man who is sitting on him and who is trying very hard to remain immobile for the several minutes Du Camp needed to take the photograph, a picture that in the end is about endless time.
(Du Camp had threatened his Nubian boatman Hadji Ismael that the camera was a cannon, which would fire if he moved while posing. Ismael told another sailor, Rais Ibrahim, that "the father of thinness," as they liked to call Du Camp, had "turned his yellow cannon toward me" but "I kept very still, and it did not kill me."
("God is great," replied Rais Ibrahim.
("And our Lord Muhammad is his prophet," said Ismael.)
Du Camp was only one amateur in Egypt in the 1850's. Felix Teynard was a civil engineer from Grenoble who wanted to update with photographs the vast "Description de l'Egypte," the lavish volumes of oversized engravings published by Napoleon's team of savants decades earlier. He had an even more acute sense than Du Camp for the drama of massed volumes and the poetry of barren landscape. His view of Abu Simbel, unconventionally cropped, bespeaks vastness and mystery.
Likewise, the work of John Beasley Greene, an American brought up in France, another amateur, whose minimalist shot of the Nile as shimmering mirage ("flat as a river of steel" was Flaubert's phrase for the Nile) is the most evanescent picture in the show. Its atmosphere is different from what you find in Greene's other great picture, of the temple at Dakkeh in Nubia, wherein jagged shadows and a hard raking light suggest an eccentric's slightly macabre take on the brutality of the Egyptian sun and wind.
Among Egyptologists and photo historians, Greene, Du Camp and to a lesser extent Teynard are familiar names. But the exhibition also includes Ernest Benecke, a French wool trader of German descent who went to the Middle East in 1852. His pictures of Egyptians rather than Egyptian monuments should come as a surprise even to experts. One of those amateurs who benefited from his shortcomings, Benecke made images that are a little blurry and you can't be sure whether he really intended the vertiginous recession in a picture of a captured crocodile on the deck of a boat, an amazing sight.
But the results look more remarkable for seeming serendipitous. A group of boys in silhouette are charmingly out of focus, our attention diverted by the blur of the faces to the rhythm of their gestures against a stark backdrop: it's a deeply humane picture of Egyptians without the predictable European condescension. Another Benecke photograph of two gypsy dancers, one head-on, the other in profile, looks posed by comparison but has the elegance of a Corot, encapsulating the sensuality of the women Flaubert wrote so much about. Although he traveled with Du Camp, Flaubert was looking more at what Benecke photographed, which were the people, not the monuments.
And then there was Theodule Deveria, who photographed the tomb of Ptahmose, the chief steward to Ramses II, another discovery. Deveria worked on the French excavations at Saqqara, where Ptahmose's tomb was found. He photographed it from the inside looking out, light slanting into the entrance, the light beam a cone locking into place the perfect geometry of horizontal stone slabs and sand. You can make out the relief of Ptahmose carved on a slab just outside the entrance, the top lopped off by vandals or by time. And you see footsteps in the sand, as if Ptahmose had just walked away from his own grave, a comic touch of surreality that dovetails with the story behind the picture: after Deveria was there, sand swallowed up the tomb again, making his photograph the only remnant today of its existence.
Flaubert had expressed boredom at the sights in Egypt, but when his trip ended he admitted missing "the soft sound of the oars in the water -- that cadenced accompaniment to our long dreamy days." Languid dreams and immortal places. The old photographs, like all good photographs, have a built-in melancholy. They're like found objects, relics of time lost, which is not true of every old photograph. The views by Du Camp, Greene, Deveria and Teynard, pioneering works, have a virgin authenticity conveying the amateur photographer's amazement at seeing places through a device whose uncanny ability to capture those sights doubled the amazement.
When the professional photographer Francis Frith established a mass market for armchair travel in Egypt a few years later, the freshness evaporated. Frith's pictures, ending the show, are classics but have the stagy authority of the commercial tourist industry, purveying a cold, professional theatricality that reached its apex half a century later when Harry Burton photographed the excavation of Tutankhamen's tomb in the 1920's. A small selection from among thousands of Burton's excavation photographs in the Met's collection constitute "The Pharaoh's Photographer," a different Met show timed to coincide with "Along the Nile."
In it Burton is shown mixing Hollywood-style shots of Howard Carter uncovering Tut's mummy for the illustrated newspapers with documentary pictures made solely for the archives, which have an unintended modern beauty. The show cleverly gives a fresh twist to the Tut craze, but the older photographs stick longer in the mind because they seem haunted from across a gulf of a century and a half.
"The boat left while I was asleep," Flaubert noted on July 19, 1850. "I did not see the land of Egypt disappear on the horizon. I did not bid it my last farewells. Shall I ever return?"
He didn't. That was the odd thing about Egypt. Greene died in Algeria not long after he left. Teynard seems to have quit photography altogether after he left. He never took another photograph while back in France, as far as anyone knows.
Neither did Du Camp. He died almost half a century after his trip with Flaubert without picking up a camera again.
"Along the Nile: Early Photographs of Egypt" is organized by Pierre Apraxine, curator of the Gilman Paper Company Collection, and Jeff L. Rosenheim of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. "The Pharaoh's Photographer: Harry Burton, Tutankhamen and the Metropolitan's Egyptian Expedition" is organized by Catherine H. Roehrig and Malcolm Daniel of the Met. Both shows remain on view at the museum (Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street) through Dec. 30.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An 1850 view of Abu Simbel by Maxime Du Camp, left, and Nubian children photographed by Ernest Benecke in 1852, from "Along the Nile" at the Met. (Photographs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art/Gilman Paper Company Collection)(pg. E23); After the photograph (left) of the tomb of Ptahmose, chief steward to Ramses II, was taken by Theodule Deveria in 1859, drifting sand swallowed the tomb and its location was lost. Above, the outer coffin of Tutankhamen as photgraphed by Harry Burton in 1926. (Metropolitan Museum of Art); (Metropolitan Museum of Art/Gilman Paper Company Collection)(pg. E25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); WRITERS (71%); RELIGION (66%) PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (59%) EGYPT (98%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (59%) EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



352 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 2078 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks this week, some events may be canceled.

ATTRACTIONS

Museums and Sites

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, 36-01 35th Avenue (or 35th Avenue at 36th Street), Astoria, Queens. "Hollywood Meets the Avant-Garde," a weekend-long screening of early experimental films made by Hollywood directors and others. Running through Sunday. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., Maurice Tourneu's "Bluebird" (1918) and the short, "Dreams of a Rarebit Friend" by the Edison Manufacturing Company (1906); with live music by Jon Spurney; at 4 p.m., a lecture on Busby Berkeley by Cecile Starr, author of "Experimental Animation," and screenings of short art films and Hollywood films by Oskar Fischinger, Mary Ellen Bute, Douglass Crockwell and Dwinnell Grant as well as Busby Berkeley numbers from "Wonder Bar" (1934); "Footlight Parade" (1933); "Whoopee" (1930); "Palmy Days" (1931) and "Gold Diggers of 1933"; Sunday at 2 p.m., "Borderline" (1930) by Kenneth MacPherson and Winifed Bryker and "City of Contrasts" (1931) by Irving Browning, with live music by Mr. Spurney; at 4 p.m. a lecture on "Slavko Vorkapich and Robert Florey: Masters of Expressionism in American Film" by Bruce Posner, a film historian; and screenings of films by Robert Florey, Slavko Vorkapich, Gregg Toland and William Cameron Menzie. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tours by appointment, Tuesdays through Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Film and video screenings are free with admission unless otherwise noted. Museum admission: $8.50; 65+ and students, $5.50; ages 5 to 18, $4.50; 4 and under, free. Information: (718) 784-0077.

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. "Meeting God: Elements of Hindu Devotion" explores Hinduism's rituals, prayers, customs and festivals in India through more than 75 photographs, devotional objects and videos. Accompanying the exhibition are color photographs by Steve McCurry depicting home and office shrines of Hindus, Sikhs and Jains from the New York metropolitan area. Through Feb. 24, 2002. "The Genomic Revolution" examines the genome, genetics, developments involving molecular biology and the impact on modern science, technology, natural history, biodiversity and life; through Jan. 1. "Discovery Room," the newest permanent exhibition, features interactive and hands-on technology. Museum hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 8:45 p.m. Admission (suggested donation): $10 for adults; $7.50 for students and 60+; children 12 and under, $6; under 2, free. Combination tickets are available. Information: (212) 769-5100.

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY'S ROSE CENTER FOR EARTH AND SPACE, Central Park West at 81st Street. This 333,500-square-foot, seven-floor, 120-foot-high exhibition and research center includes the Hayden Planetarium, the Cullman Hall of the Universe and the Gottesman Hall of Planet Earth. The Hayden Planetarium includes the Space Theater, presenting "Passport to the Universe," and the Big Bang Theater, featuring narrated visual and audio effects simulating the beginning of the universe. The Cullman Hall, a 7,000-square-foot permanent exhibition hall on the bottom level, illustrates processes that led to the creation of the planets, stars and galaxies. "Starry Nights: Fridays Under the Sphere," with cash bar and tapas; Hilton Ruiz Quartet, Fridays through Sept. 28 from 5:45 to 8:15 p.m. Hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays to 8:45 p.m. Space shows run all day. Suggested admission to the museum, which includes the Rose Center: $10; students and 60+, $7.50; children 2 to 12, $6; under 2, free. Information: (212) 769-5100. Reservations: (212) 769-5200.

AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY, Audubon Terrace, Broadway at 155th Street, Washington Heights. The society has the most extensive coin collection in North America; its library is open to the public. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Information: (212) 234-3130.

MOUNT VERNON HOTEL MUSEUM AND GARDEN, formerly the Abigail Adams Smith Museum, 421 East 61st Street, Manhattan. Built in 1799 as the carriage house for Abigail Adams and Col. William Smith, it was the Mount Vernon Hotel in the 1830's. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Admission: $4; students and 62+, $3; ages 12 and under, free. Information: (212) 838-6878.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. "Dressing for a New York City Childhood," through Sunday. "Lost New York in Old Postcards," through Nov. 25. Hours: Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. for registered groups only; Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; closed Mondays. Suggested admission: $7; 62+, students and children, $4; families, $12. Information: (212) 534-1672. To register for any of the gallery talks, call Extension 257.

MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. A collection of taped radio and television broadcasts and exhibitions in other media, including drawings, posters and photographs. "Muppets Forever: The Legacy of Jim Henson," through Sunday; screenings Sunday at 12:30 p.m. "Hello, Goodbye: Pilots, Premieres and Final Episodes," through Sunday; screenings tonight at 7 and Sunday at 3 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; open until 8 on Thursdays; on Fridays the theater is open until 9. Admission: $6; students and 62+, $4; ages 12 and under, $3. Information: (212) 621-6800.

NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, near 77th Street, Manhattan. The Henry Luce III Center for the Study of American Culture is a permanent gallery on the museum's fourth floor. "Flophouse: Life on the Bowery," through Nov. 4. "Advertising Drama," through Sunday. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; students and 62+, $3; ages 12 and under, free. Information: (212) 873-3400.

STATEN ISLAND INSTITUTE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES, 75 Stuyvesant Place, St. George. Cultural museum and library with artistic, scientific and environmental collections. Museum hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $2.50; students and 62+, $1; free for members and children under 12. Information: (718) 727-1135.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT BIRTHPLACE, 28 East 20th Street, Manhattan. Reconstructed boyhood home of the 26th president. Tours on the hour, with the last at 4 p.m. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $2. Information: (212) 260-1616.

Gardens

BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Crown Heights. "Women of Flowers," an exhibition featuring botanical illustrations by women from the late 18th, 19th and 20th centuries through Sunday. Also this Sunday, from noon to 5 p.m., the annual Harvest Fair will feature music, square-dancing and crafts displays. Free garden tours Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m., meeting at the Visitors Center. Admission: $3; $1.50 for students and 65+ (free for 65+ on Fridays); free for children 15 and under; free for all on Tuesdays, except holidays; free from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. The conservatory closes 30 minutes before the grounds. Information: (718) 623-7200. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Southern Boulevard and 200th Street, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Includes 48 specialty gardens and plant collections. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., the tour "Botanicals for Flavor and Scent" meeting at the Enid A. Haupt Conservatory Palms of the Americas Gallery; Sunday, also at 2 p.m., "One Garden for Bouquet Gathering and One of Fragrant Plants: The Legacy of Alice Ireys." Meet at the entrance to the Demonstration Gardens. Tomorrow, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., a free open house of the garden's continuing education programming. "The Exotic Courtyard Garden," through Sunday, in the conservatory courtyard. Forest tours, Thursdays at 1 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at noon. Tram tours, daily every 30 minutes. Highlights of the garden tours, Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m. Conservatory admission: $5; students and 62+, $4; children 2 to 12, $3; under 2, free. Adventure Garden admission: $3; students and 62+, $2; children 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. Grounds admission free for all on Wednesdays and from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking: $5. Grounds hours: Tuesdays through Sundays and Monday holidays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., through October. Information: (718) 817-8700.

RECREATION

"KOMEN NEW YORK RACE FOR THE CURE," Central Park. A five-kilometer race/ walk for women, and male breast cancer survivors, beginning Sunday at 9 a.m. at Central Park West and 77th Street. Sponsored by the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation and the New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration fee, $25; race-day fee, $30. Information: (212) 293-2873; (212) 860-4455; www.nyrrc.org.

"TAKE A WALK, NEW YORK!" from Sheepshead Bay to Plum Beach, Brooklyn, all the while collecting and recording marine debris. Meets tomorrow at 10 a.m. outside the Sheepshead Bay Road stop on the Q train. Free. Sponsored by the Neighborhood Open Space Coalition. Information: (212) 379-8339; www.walkny.org.

ON THE STREET

EIGHTH ANNUAL UPPER BROADWAY AUTUMN FESTIVAL, from 110th to 118th Streets, Morningside Heights. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Interfaith Assembly on Homelessness and Housing. Information: (212) 764-6331.

WEST SIDE COMMUNITY GARDEN'S ARTS AND CRAFTS FAIR, 89th and 90th Streets, between Amsterdam and Columbus Avenues. Tomorrow and Sunday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Sponsored by the West Side Community Garden.

WALKING TOURS

"GRAMERCY PARK: CELEBRATING THE THEODORE ROOSEVELT INAUGURAL CENTENNIAL," with stops at the birthplace of Theodore Roosevelt and other historic sites. Tomorrow at 2 p.m. and Sunday at 12:30 p.m. Fee, $12. Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331.

"HARLEM: KEYSTONE OF AFRICAN AMERICA." The history, homes, churches and cultural and economic growth of the area. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at City College, Amsterdam Avenue and 138th Street. Fee, $10. Sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York. Information: (212) 242-5762.

"GREEN-WOOD CEMETERY: WANDER TO CRESCENT WATER," Brooklyn. A look at one of the most beautiful sections of the cemetery, where one can find the grave sites of Samuel Morse and Lola Montez. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the entrance at Fifth Avenue and 25th Street. Led by Jeff Richman, author of "Brooklyn's Green-Wood Cemetery." Information: (631) 549-4891.

WILLIAMSBURG, BROOKLYN. A visit to the large Hasidic population in the area, with a stop at one of the largest Hasidic synagogues in the United States. Meets Sunday at 10:30 a.m. Led by Oscar Israelowitz, author of "Jewish Heritage Trail of New York City" and "Lower East Side Tourbook." Fee, $20. Information: (718) 951-7072.

"A NEW DAY DAWNS IN BROOKLYN: METROTECH CENTER AND THE TRANSFORMATION OF DOWNTOWN BROOKLYN," with a look at the restoration of Brooklyn's old City Hall and plans for Cadman Plaza. Meets Sunday at 11 a.m. at Borough Hall, Joralemon Street, between Court and Adams Street. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $15; $12 for Society members. Information: (212) 439-1049.

ALLEY POND PARK, QUEENS. A six-mile walk past the trails and ponds of the park. Meets Sunday at 12:30 p.m. at Hillside Avenue and Winchester Boulevard. Sponsored by the Outdoors Club. Fee, $3. Information: (516) 328-8055.

BATTLE OF HARLEM. Includes sites associated with the 1776 battle as well as the development of the 19th-century village of Manhattanville, including Claremont Hill and St. Mary's P.E. Church. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riverside Church, Riverside Drive and 120th Street. Fee, $15. Sponsored by the West Harlem Art Fund. Information: (212) 663-5890.

"MILLIONAIRE'S MILE, THE FIFTH AVENUE GOLD COAST," Manhattan. Visits the private clubs, cultural institutions and palatial homes of rich and famous past residents. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the statue of General Sherman at 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. Fee: $10. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. Information: (732) 270-5277.

"EXPLORING UNION SQUARE: PAST AND PRESENT." Meets Saturdays at 2 p.m. at the Lincoln Statue at the north end of Union Square. Sponsored by the 14th Street-Union Square Business Improvement District and Quality Street Tours. Free. Information: (718) 783-3260.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WALKING TOURS -- A tour honors the Theodore Roosevelt centennial. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); FILM HISTORY (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); FILM (90%); HISTORY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (85%); RELIGION (85%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (85%); TERRORISM (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); BIOLOGY (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); ANIMATION (71%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (66%); CITIES (66%); BIODIVERSITY (63%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); BIOCHEMISTRY (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (58%) INDIA (72%); UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



353 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Now, Jersey City Has Room to Show Its Treasures

BYLINE:  By KEN JOHNSON 

 BODY:
While spectacular new cultural cathedrals like the Guggenheim Bilbao or the Tate Modern attract big money and worldwide attention, small museums in small cities and towns all across America are barely surviving, if not slowly dying. They may be blessed -- or burdened -- with troves of artworks by once-semifamous, now-forgotten names and tons of decorative objects, artifacts and memorabilia donated by local citizens, but they usually have little space to display their treasures and limited resources for preservation and proper storage. Then, every so often, one of these beleaguered institutions gets lucky.
 A case in point is the Jersey City Museum, which has lately been rescued from oblivion on the top floor of the Jersey City Public Library, where it was quartered since its founding in 1901. The museum is about to open to the public in its new home, in a former Post Office warehouse that underwent a $6.5 million renovation. The opening, originally scheduled for yesterday, has been postponed until next week. 
 The boxy, yellow-brick building is not much to look at from the outside, but inside the new facility has all the features of a big-city museum: gift shop, cafe, skylight lobby, a 152-seat theater, up-to-date collections storage and nicely proportioned galleries with white walls, natural wood trim and wall-to-wall carpeting.
Charles Gifford of Meyer & Gifford Architects in New York designed the new interior. No doubt the born-again museum will be a crown jewel of Jersey City culture; whether it will attract attention and support from farther away will depend on the interest of its exhibition program, which is off to a respectable if not thrilling start with three shows: "Ben Shahn and the Passion of Sacco and Vanzetti," an exhibition of small paintings, drawings, prints and photographs devoted to the one of the ardent leftist's favorite themes; "Catalina Parra: It's Indisputable," a solo show of politically impassioned collages by a Chilean-born New Yorker; and "Highlights From the Permanent Collection," which is interesting more for its many unfamiliar artists than for its few well-known ones.
Organized by Alejandro Anreus, the museum's former curator, the Shahn exhibition is as much about history as about art. Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti were working-class Italian immigrants and anarchists who were arrested in 1920 for a robbery at a shoe factory and the murder of a guard and paymaster, in South Braintree, Mass. The case became a cause celebre in leftist circles, where it was assumed that the prosecution and eventual execution of the pair in 1927 was motivated by reactionary and xenophobic politics.
In 1932, Shahn had a career-defining exhibition of small gouache paintings about the case at the Downtown Art Gallery in New York. Basing his pictures on photographs from newspapers, Shahn rendered the accused, their families, the sentencing judge and other involved parties in what would become his signature cartoon style of wobbly yet emphatic outlines and subtly modulated planes of color.
Mr. Anreus has gathered together 16 of the 23 original works in the series. Gently Expressionistic and without allegorical bombast, Shahn's paintings have a surprisingly understated tenderness -- so understated, indeed, that they tell little about the particulars of the case or about the broader political controversy it engendered. The show includes photographs that Shahn worked from and explanatory wall texts, but ultimately you need the catalog, with essays by Mr. Anreus and others who define the artistic and political contexts and bring it all into illuminating perspective.
More recent politics are addressed by Catalina Parra, a conceptualist who was born in Chile in 1940 and has lived in New York since 1980. In each of five series of collages, Ms. Parra has used full-page advertisements from The New York Times as backgrounds for pasted-on images lifted from fashion and news magazines to evoke tensions between worlds of consumerist privilege and worlds of political and economic struggle.
The most effective of Ms. Parra's works have to do with Gen. Augusto Pinochet. Under a headline for an Ikea ad that reads "Run Away! Run Away!" the artist has pieced together images of the dictator and fragments of magazine articles about his rule in Chile, from 1973 to 1990. In another series of 10 works, the ad headline reads: "No Moaning. No Complaining. No Rehab." Under each headline is a 1975 photograph of General Pinochet embracing the man who would assume leadership of Chile in the 1990's, Hugo Banzer. Ms. Parra's collages are visually nondescript and conceptually unoriginal; the artist Adrian Piper used New York Times ads to similar purpose decades ago. But if you are at all interested in the politics of Chile, you may find them compelling.
"Highlights From the Permanent Collection" is a miscellaneous affair that ranges from examples of 19th-century products by local businesses like the American Pottery Manufacturing Company or the Jersey City Glass Company to contemporary works by artists like Lorna Simpson and Luis Cruz Azaceta. There are pictures by a local artist named August Will (1834-1910), who made many skillful drawings and lithographs depicting scenes in and around the city; a pair of fine small etchings by Thomas Moran, who was known for his epic Western landscapes; Barbizon-style paintings by Charles Warren Eaton and William Merritt Post; mid-20th-century metropolitan scenes in prints by Reginald Marsh, Kenneth Hayes Miller and Isabel Bishop; and lots more. It's not a great collection, but neither is it uninteresting; certainly it makes a persuasive case for the enduring value of the small American museum.
"Ben Shahn and the Passion of Sacco and Vanzetti," opening next week, will run through Dec. 16, and "Catalina Parra: It's Indisputable" through Dec. 31, at the Jersey City Museum, 350 Montgomery Street, at Monmouth Street, (201) 413-0303.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail from Ben Shahn's "Passion of Sacco and Vanzetti," in the Jersey City Museum's new building. (Estate of Ben Shahn/VAGA, New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); CITY LIFE (90%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); CITIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); LIBRARIES (69%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%); ARRESTS (50%) ART; MUSEUMS; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: JERSEY CITY MUSEUM 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KEN; SHAHN, BEN (1898-1969); PARRA, CATALINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



354 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2236 words

HEADLINE: THEATER GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy Broadway and Off Broadway shows this weekend. Approximate running times are in parentheses. * denotes a highly recommended show.
+ means discounted tickets were available at the Theater Development Fund's TKTS booth for performances last Friday and Saturday nights.
++ means discounted tickets were at the TKTS booth for last Friday night only.

Broadway

* "CONTACT." Susan Stroman's sparkling anthem to the transforming powers of dance has yet to succumb to the anemia that often befalls long-running musicals. A return visit to this Tony Award-winning show found it in a robust, muscle-flexing state of health. This three-part self-described dance play has ripened into mellowness, with a newly relaxed expansiveness that doesn't dilute its intoxication factor. The attitude speaks of performers who are so comfortable with the contours of their parts that they can riff on them a bit, jazz style, sounding new emotional notes (2:00). Beaumont, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $60 to $90, $20 student rush tickets available at the box office two hours before the performance (Ben Brantley).

++ "42ND STREET" (Tony Award for best revival of a musical). There's nothing like precision tap-dancing to turn an audience into a lab full of case studies for Dr. Pavlov. Witness this opulent revival, directed by Mark Bramble and choreographed by Randy Skinner, in which every other production number has us beating our flippers together like the seals at feeding time. A largely labored resurrection of the last musical staged by the fabled Gower Champion, inspired by the classic 1933 movie, the show features Harry Warren and Al Dubin's priceless Depression-era songs, Michael Cumpsty as a tyrannical director and an extremely enjoyable Christine Ebersole (Tony winner for best actress in a musical) as his tyrannical star. Otherwise, the evening's charms are largely limited to its full-strength tapping (2:40). Ford, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $20 to $90 (Brantley).

*+ "THE FULL MONTY." This hearty Americanized singing adaptation of the popular British film about a motley male troupe of amateur strippers gives off a blaze of pure mass appeal. The show calculatedly pushes as many buttons as an elevator operator, but mercifully it doesn't hammer at them. With a winning, ear-catching pop score by David Yazbek and a lively gallery of performers who seem truly in love with the people they're playing, "The Full Monty" is that rare aggressive crowd pleaser that you don't have to apologize for liking. Well, for the most part. The book, by the multiple Tony Award-winner Terrence McNally, is sometimes as lame and pandering as a midseason replacement sitcom. Fortunately, "The Full Monty" has more to do than just talk. And as long as it lets its ideally cast ensemble translate blue-collar blues into vigorous song, it's impossible not to smile (2:45). O'Neill, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $30 to $90 (Brantley).

+ "IF YOU EVER LEAVE ME . . . I'M GOING WITH YOU!" Do you by any chance make a habit of crashing wedding receptions, anniversary banquets and family reunions? Do you get your kicks from watching strangers in festive formal wear as they show home movies and make toasts of mutual admiration? If so, you may conceivably enjoy the party that Renee Taylor and Joseph Bologna have given for themselves at the Cort Theater, a self-addressed valentine to their 36-year marriage. Others will find less to savor in this anthology of old jokes, autobiographical snippets and scenes from the couple's plays, written and directed by the two stars. Even the personal stories have hardened into shtick-shaped molds. The show's title, with its self-contained setup and punch line, pretty much says it all (1:30). Cort, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tonight at 8 p.m.; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m.; no performance this Monday ; added performance this Tuesday at 8 p.m. ; Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m. Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $30 to $65 (Brantley).

*+ "THE MUSIC MAN." A show that makes you feel ridiculously happy one instant and seriously sleepy the next. The director and choreographer Susan Stroman ("Contact," "The Producers") isn't as confident in her take on Meredith Willson's jubilant story of a traveling con man who brings rhythm to the stolid town of River City, Iowa. Her transforming imagination stops when the music stops. Robert Sean Leonard has taken over the title role; Rebecca Luker continues as the frosty librarian who learns to melt. But you get the impression that most people onstage are just pretending to live in a land of cornfed propriety and corny jokes, marking time until a production number comes along to let them show their stuff. When the show is singing or, especially, dancing, it often seems to have winged feet; when it's just talking or clowning around, those feet are flat (2:50). Simon, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $40 to $90 (Brantley).

* "THE PRODUCERS" (winner of 12 Tony Awards). How do you single out highlights in a bonfire? Anyone who sees this sublimely ridiculous show is going to be hard pressed to name a favorite moment. (Is it the singing pigeons? Adolf Hitler doing Judy Garland?) Mel Brooks's wildly energetic stage adaptation of his 1968 cult movie is as full of gags, gadgets and gimmicks as a master vaudevillian's trunk. But the production is so much more than the sum of its gorgeously silly parts. It is, to put it simply, the real thing: a big Broadway-book musical so ecstatically drunk on its powers to entertain that it leaves you delirious, too. With the assistance of the director and choreographer Susan Stroman and the happiest cast in town, led by Nathan Lane (Tony winner for best actor in a musical) and Matthew Broderick in the performances of their careers. (Mr. Lane is on vacation from Tuesday through Sept. 23; Brad Oscar replaces him.) Mr. Brooks has put on a show that is a valentine to every show there is, good and bad, about putting on a show (2:45). St. James, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-5800. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $30 to $100; extremely limited (Brantley).

* "PROOF" (Tonys for best play and direction of a play). An exhilarating, assured new play by David Auburn that turns the esoteric world of higher mathematics literally into a back-porch drama, as accessible and compelling as a detective story. A mystery about the authorship of a particularly important proof, it is also about twin enigmas: genius and love. Without any baffling erudition, the play presents mathematicians as blessed and bedeviled by the gift for abstraction that ties them achingly to one another and separates them, also achingly, from concrete-minded folks like you and me. Perhaps most satisfying, it does so without a moment of meanness. The cast of four is now headed by Jennifer Jason Leigh. Directed by Daniel Sullivan with the pace of a psychological thriller, "Proof" reaches into the most competitive and difficult intellectual terrain and finds -- guess what? -- good people (2:00). Kerr, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $19 to $69 (Bruce Weber).

+ "STONES IN HIS POCKETS." Watching Sean Campion or Conleth Hill take a step forward is an exercise in suspense: when his foot touches the floor, it is entirely possible that he will no longer be the sex, age or nationality that he was a second before. These two human Etch-a-Sketches, the entire cast of Marie Jones's play about an American film crew in an Irish village, offer overwhelming evidence that there are special effects the movies will never do better than the theater does. It should be noted, however, that the pleasures of "Stones" are less literary than kinetic. Its satire of those superficial, egomaniacal folk who make movies is awfully familiar stuff. And Ms. Jones burdens an essentially comic play with a thudding tragic center. The evening's joys come from its actors splitting like amoebas into different personalities (2:20). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 p.m. Tickets: $30 to $70 (Brantley).

Off Broadway

+ "BAT BOY." Even if high camp is not your style, this outlandish but witty musical may very well make you laugh. Derived from a dubious tabloid story about the discovery in a West Virginia cave of a creature who is half boy, half vampire bat, it's a tongue-in-cheek gothic morality tale bent on revealing the bat in all of us. The title role is played by Deven May, a gifted, athletic young actor with a dexterous singing voice who is equipped with Vulcan ears and pointy teeth. He's doomed, of course, particularly once the secret of his parentage is revealed. But long before the climax, the show establishes its credentials as an omnibus parody, garish in almost every respect but constrained below the bar of foolishness by the vivacious direction of Scott Schwartz and the winking lyrics of Laurence O'Keefe. Mr. O'Keefe also wrote the tuneful score, which is largely devoted to lampooning Broadway schmaltz (2:20). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $35 to $50, $20 rush tickets are available on the day of the performance (Weber).

"BLUE." The Clarks, who own a successful funeral home, are the richest black family in the fictional town of Kent, S.C., but they're just ordinary folks, at least if you believe what you see on television. As the focus of this amiable featherweight of a play by Charles Randolph-Wright, they are a clan built to prime-time specifications: an overbearing mom; a forbearing dad; a crusty grandma; and two sons, a renegade 17-year-old and an observant 12-year-old. Their individual quirks and conflicts are more genially tickling than poignant, drawing on the comforts of pop culture, and the plot, which takes place over about two decades, is standard family evolution stuff. But the play is enlivened by a polished production, solid acting and original music from Nona Hendryx sung by a pop singer whose music haunts the Clark household -- for good reason, it turns out (2:10). Gramercy Theater, 127 East 23rd Street, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 7:30 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m.; Sundays at 2:30 p.m. Tickets: $55 (Weber).

*+ "FORBIDDEN BROADWAY 2001: A SPOOF ODYSSEY." This 18-year-old satirical revue, which manages to see its subjects with both religious reverence and diagnostic cool, has established itself as a vital index to the health of the mainstream American musical. Never mind box-office figures. "Forbidden Broadway," created by Gerard Alessandrini, is looking for signs of creative life, and according to its current reading, such a pulse is growing fainter by the minute. Fortunately, this show manages to find something deliciously tart in the blandness of musical theater at the moment. And if Broadway has become more about marketing than about product, the show is perfectly willing to point its satirist's rifle at the appropriate corporate targets (Disney, American Airlines), as well as at the usual sacred-monster stars. Directed by Mr. Alessandrini and Phillip George, the four ensemble members bring an intoxicating energy even to the portrayal of robotic performers (2:00). Douglas Fairbanks Theater, 432 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200. Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8:15 p.m.; Wednesday and Saturdays at 2:30 and 8:15 p.m.; Sundays at 3:30 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $49.50 and $55 (Brantley).

Last Chance

*+ "MAJOR BARBARA." The Roundabout Theater Company's elegant, eloquent and very funny production of Shaw's 1905 play sending up the societal worship of money -- and the convolutions of logic that defend it -- is less an interpretation than a celebration of this playwright's winking, topsy-turvy didactics on the subjects of politics, poverty and faith. In a world where spin-doctoring has become the rule in public discourse, inoffensiveness is prized and forthrightness has become suspicious, and Shaw's notion that the rhetoric that protects a system of Darwinian economics is a hypocrisy has only gained in relevance. And the director, Daniel Sullivan, whose strength is in crystallizing the dramatic voice of the playwright, has made Shaw's tasty ironies crystal clear, so that with a first-rate cast led by Cherry Jones, Dana Ivey and the British actor David Warner, making his American stage debut, the star of the show is the playwright himself (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $40 to $65 (Weber).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jennifer Jason Leigh, now in "Proof," at the Walter Kerr. (Reuters); Cherry Jones in "Major Barbara," at the American Airlines Theater. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); DANCE (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); FILM (77%); MUSIC (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (70%); THEATER (58%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



355 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: The Weak at War With the Strong 

BYLINE:  By Ronald Steel; Ronald Steel is professor of international relations at the University of Southern California.

 BODY:
This is the end: the end of an era, the era of our invulnerability. We will recover physically and even psychologically, but nothing will ever be quite the same again. A barrier has been irrevocably breached: a barrier against the world outside. Until this week our enemies never seriously penetrated our continental shores. But in the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the proud symbols of our global power and influence were violated.
 Our invulnerability lasted for more than 200 years. During that time we grew rich and powerful, protected by vast oceans and our great territorial expanse. We fought our wars abroad, subjecting our enemies -- Germany, Japan, North Korea and North Vietnam -- to devastation. But we were safely beyond the reach of retaliation. Our wars brought us pain, but our home front was virtually unscathed. 
 Because we have enjoyed our impregnability for such a long time, we came to take it for granted. Concerns about vulnerability never seriously entered our calculations of where, and when, and how we would intervene abroad to bring about objectives we deemed to be desirable.
We welcomed allies, but also acted alone. Even as modern technology shrunk the protection that geography once offered us, we sought invulnerability in more advanced technology. Today our leaders tell us that an aerial shield will deflect all enemy attacks aimed at our shores.
It is a comforting thought, reinforced by our abiding faith in technology and our history of fighting wars on the soil of others. But all that has now been revealed as a fantasy. Like a person riding in an armor-plated car who is felled by a virus, we have been attacked from within -- by hostile terrorists commanding our own commercial airliners carrying Americans on their daily journeys across our vast land. 
We had a preview of this catastrophe a few years ago. But the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center, with its relatively minor damage, made little impact on us. We captured the plotters, tried and convicted them within the scrupulous rules of our justice system, and then tried to treat the entire episode as if it were a mere aberration, a quick-passing summer storm, that meant nothing.
But for others, this bombing was merely a dry run for something far bigger -- as indeed this most recent assault may be for something we cannot yet imagine. We call those who committed these acts "terrorists" because they operate outside the traditional rules of warfare. They operate this way because they are, virtually by definition, weak by traditional measurements of power and do not command the resources of a state to pursue their aims. 
If they ruled a state they would have something to lose: their state would be militarily punished and they would be evicted from power. That is what we call war. Terrorists cannot defeat a state in war. They can only weaken it from within by attacking its most vulnerable point: ordinary people. All modern terrorist movements -- the I.R.A., the Tamil Tigers, the Muslim militants inspired by Osama bin Laden -- use this tactic.
Even though we cannot yet be sure who directed and carried out the attacks against us, we do know that there are those in the world who hate us. Trapped between the traditional world in which they were born and the confusing world of modernity in which they inescapably live, they seek a single cause for their confusion, their resentments, their frustrated ambitions and their problems of cultural identity. It is perhaps not surprising that they would focus on the world's most powerful state as the object of their resentment.
They hate us because we champion a "new world order" of capitalism, individualism, secularism and democracy that should be the norm everywhere. We orchestrate a global economic system that dictates what others shall produce, what they shall be paid, and whether or not they will find work. We proudly declare that we are the world's undisputed Number One. Then we are surprised that others might hold us responsible for all that they find threatening in the modern world. 
This does not mean that we should shrink from retaliating against those who attack us and the leaders of any state that harbors them. But at the same time we cannot deal effectively with terrorists unless we understand them. It would be a mistake to assume that the terrorism is a spillover from the continuing troubles in the Middle East. Even if the Palestinian-Israeli quarrel were settled tomorrow, the war of the traditionalists against the modernizers -- the war in which we find ourselves combatants -- would go on. What happened this week is part of a global phenomenon not limited to any single geographical area. Today it might be focused in Central Asia, tomorrow in Latin America or Asia.
It is a war in which the weak have turned the guns of the strong against them. This is a war that is showing -- despite the proud claims of the globalizers -- that in the end there may be no such thing as a universal civilization, of which we all too easily assumed we were the rightful leaders.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); BOMBINGS (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); HIJACKING (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (68%); AIRLINES (63%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: STEEL, RONALD (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (79%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (56%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



356 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
After The Horror

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
It seems almost in bad taste to talk about dollars and cents after an act of mass murder. Nonetheless, we must ask about the economic aftershocks from Tuesday's horror.
 These aftershocks need not be major. Ghastly as it may seem to say this, the terror attack -- like the original day of infamy, which brought an end to the Great Depression -- could even do some economic good. But there are already ominous indications that some will see this tragedy not as an occasion for true national unity, but as an opportunity for political profiteering. 
 About the direct economic impact: The nation's productive base has not been seriously damaged. Our economy is so huge that the scenes of destruction, awesome as they are, are only a pinprick. The World Trade Center contained 12 million square feet of office space; that's out of 375 million square feet in Manhattan alone, and 3.5 billion in the United States as a whole. Nobody has a dollar figure for the damage yet, but I would be surprised if the loss is more than 0.1 percent of U.S. wealth -- comparable to the material effects of a major earthquake or hurricane. 
The wild card here is confidence. But the confidence that matters in this case has little to do with general peace of mind. If people rush out to buy bottled water and canned goods, that will actually boost the economy. For a few weeks horrified Americans may be in no mood to buy anything but necessities. But once the shock has passed it's hard to believe that consumer spending will be much affected.
Will investors flee stocks and corporate bonds for safer assets? Such a reaction wouldn't make much sense -- after all, terrorists are not going to blow up the S.&P. 500. True, markets do sometimes react irrationally, and some foreign markets plunged after the attack. Since then, however, they have stabilized. On the whole it's just as well that our own markets have stayed closed for a few days, giving investors time to calm down; the administration was wrong to put pressure on stock markets to reopen right away. By the time the markets do reopen, the worst panic will probably be behind us.
So the direct economic impact of the attacks will probably not be that bad. And there will, potentially, be two favorable effects.
First, the driving force behind the economic slowdown has been a plunge in business investment. Now, all of a sudden, we need some new office buildings. As I've already indicated, the destruction isn't big compared with the economy, but rebuilding will generate at least some increase in business spending.
Second, the attack opens the door to some sensible recession-fighting measures. For the last few weeks there has been a heated debate among liberals over whether to advocate the classic Keynesian response to economic slowdown, a temporary burst of public spending. There were plausible economic arguments in favor of such a move, but it was questionable whether Congress could agree on how to spend the money in time to be of any use -- and there was also the certainty that conservatives would refuse to accept any such move unless it were tied to another round of irresponsible long-term tax cuts. Now it seems that we will indeed get a quick burst of public spending, however tragic the reasons.
Now for the bad news. After the attacks, I found myself wondering whether some politicians would try to exploit the horror to push their usual partisan agendas. Then I chided myself for such an uncharitable thought. But it seems you can't be too cynical; sure enough, the push is already on to sell tax breaks for corporations and a cut in the capital gains tax as a response to terrorism.
One hopes that the White House will distance itself from this disgraceful opportunism, that it will deliver the bipartisanship it originally promised. But initial indications are not good: the administration developed its request for emergency funding in consultation with Congressional Republicans -- full stop. A Democratic contact says that his party received "no consultation, no collaboration, virtually no information."
I didn't want to mention this, but now is the time to draw the line. This tragedy will only be magnified if it is exploited for political gain. Politicians who wrap themselves in the flag while relentlessly pursuing their usual partisan agenda are not true patriots, and history will not forgive them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EARTHQUAKES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); RECESSION (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); BONDS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); BOTTLED WATER (64%); CORPORATE BONDS (63%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (57%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



357 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Some Encouraging Signs While Waiting for Stocks to Trade 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
AND now we wait.
 Foreign stock markets went from panic to boredom in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks. Their next big move seems likely to follow whatever American stocks do when trading begins on Monday. 
 There were encouraging signs when the American bond market resumed trading yesterday. The systems appeared to be working. No one was surprised to see shorter-term Treasuries surge. Nothing is safer, and safety seems nice these days. But longer-term Treasuries and good quality corporate bonds also did well. As for high-yield bonds, there was more talk than trading. 
On the vast bond trading floors of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's midtown headquarters, a visitor who somehow had not known what had transpired in New York the previous two days -- including the loss by Morgan Stanley of personnel in its World Trade Center offices -- would have sensed nothing unusual.
One trader yesterday commented on how different the feeling was compared with the last crisis that riveted attention to the bond market. That was in 1998, when Long-Term Capital, a hedge fund, came close to collapsing. It had a huge, highly leveraged portfolio, and other traders appeared to be circling like vultures, trying to profit from Long-Term's distress. Now there is a spirit of cooperation, as firms help each other around technical and communications glitches.
Vulture-like behavior is, of course, the more normal way of life among Wall Street traders, and its return will in that sense be welcome.
What will happen when the wait ends, and stocks begin trading in the United States? My own forecast -- perhaps reflecting more hope than judgment -- is that there initially will not be a big wave of selling. People remain in shock, and in the current atmosphere there may be some reluctance to do anything. Prices will be marked down, of course, but perhaps not by a huge amount.
The economy was already looking worse before the World Trade Center blew up, a fact emphasized by two reports yesterday. Initial unemployment claims shot up and the preliminary consumer sentiment numbers from the University of Michigan showed a sharp fall. The final numbers for this month will include interviews after the trade center attack, which will not improve consumer sentiment. The conventional wisdom is that the economy will now plummet as consumer confidence craters.
That view may be too pessimistic. New York, which may or may not be representative of the nation, appears to be very jittery, with various buildings being evacuated for a time yesterday for little apparent reason other than nervousness. But perhaps people will conclude that shopping, and even flying, are patriotic responsibilities to show that terrorists cannot force us to change our behavior.
There was one very good sign out of Europe yesterday. Stocks of reinsurance companies, which had plunged on the news of the attack, actually rallied. Insurers, goes the latest thesis, will take a big hit from claims now, but in the future they will get rich from higher premiums and increased demand for their product. "This is such a freak event," said Espen Nordhus, a Morgan Stanley analyst, arguing that Tuesday's price decline was excessive.
We can hope he is right. For that would imply that higher premiums will not be offset by higher claims from future terrorist attacks. If so, the scary talk about World War III will prove to have been inaccurate.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Swiss Re's stock price" Graph tracks the closing price of Swiss francs from Friday to Tuesday.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INSURANCE (78%); REINSURANCE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); INTERVIEWS (65%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



358 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Imported Goods Fell in August 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
Prices of imported goods fell in August for the sixth time in seven months, government figures showed today, in a sign that the threat of inflation remains subdued.
 The import price index, which measures the cost of goods and raw materials from abroad, fell 0.1 percent last month after declining a revised 1.5 percent in July, the Labor Department said. 
Imported building materials became less expensive. 
 Excluding petroleum, import prices decreased 0.4 percent after a 1 percent drop the previous month. It was the seventh consecutive monthly decline. A strong dollar and slower economic growth have made foreign goods cheaper and reduced the ability of U.S. companies to raise prices.
Analysts had expected a 0.2 percent decrease in import prices after a previously reported 1.6 percent drop in July. Imports account for about 15 percent of goods and services bought in the United States.
Imports cost 4.4 percent less than they did in August of last year. In the 12 months ended August 2000, import prices had increased 5.9 percent. Excluding petroleum, the index was down 2.8 percent from August of last year, compared with a 1.5 percent increase in the 12 months ended August 2000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (98%); IMPORT PRICES (95%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DOLLAR (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



359 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: TV SPORTS; 
On Weekend of Reflection, Airwaves Will Be Quiet

BYLINE:  By Richard Sandomir 

 BODY:
Last weekend, there were 50 sports events on local television.
 This weekend, there will be almost none. No baseball, no football, no golf, no boxing. Save for a CART race from Germany on ESPN tomorrow morning, and drag racing and rodeo on TNN, sports will be a nearly forgotten species for two days. 
 Nearly everything has been postponed or canceled out of respect for a nation traumatized by Tuesday's terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
"I can't remember a weekend like this," said Sean McManus, president of CBS Sports. "Like everything else that has happened, this is unique in the worst sense of the word."
Had the National Football League not postponed Sunday's games, Fox Sports planned to replace its corner score box with an American flag and to insert patriotic and heroic vignettes throughout the broadcasts.
When N.F.L. games resume Sept. 23, those features will be included. Fox will also carry each game's national anthems and invocations.
"This is such an unprecedented tragedy perpetrated by wicked cowards," said David Hill, chairman of the Fox Sports Television Group. "The people who died should not be forgotten."
ESPN will carry no pro or college football games, but its "College GameDay" and "NFL Countdown" programs will be seen tomorrow and Sunday, respectively. Each will cover the impact of the deferred games and any other relevant news, said Chris LaPlaca, an ESPN spokesman.
(NBC, without football, will not carry scheduled Nascar and horse racing programming.)
The time devoted to N.F.L. games on Fox and ABC will be returned to local stations, with round-the-clock news coverage likely. CBS will carry sports repeats and movies over the weekend.
Sometime soon, the networks will talk to the league about the financial impact of losing the games. The network contracts -- which call for the N.F.L. to be paid $2.15 billion this season -- contain clauses calling for good faith negotiations to provide financial relief for the loss of a game. The rebate would not be one-sixteenth of each network's rights fee because the second game of the season is less valuable than one in Week 2 of December, which is less valuable than a playoff game.
"I'd assume the contracts have provisions like force majeure or 'act of war,' " Hill said. "And this is an act of war."
Whatever relief is provided by the N.F.L. will be calculated with an eye toward how much advertising the network has sold for the lost games.
Neal Pilson, a sports consultant, said: "They're entitled to an adjustment. Given the networks' current economic situations, I'm sure they would like to see one."
CBS, ABC and NBC received financial relief in 1987 when the N.F.L. used nonunion replacements during the players' strike.
The attacks Tuesday stranded some of ABC's "Monday Night Football" personnel in Denver. Melissa Stark, a sideline reporter, was still there yesterday, as was Howard Katz, the president of ABC Sports. Five production employees rented a Winnebago to drive home. Eric Dickerson, a sideline reporter, rode to California on the Crosby, Stills & Nash tour bus, said Mark Mandel, an ABC Sports spokesman.
Had so many N.F.L. and college football games not been put off, the networks had elaborate ground transportation plans to move their announcers and crews nationwide.
At CBS, the same bus-bound crew that was to produce the Tennessee-Florida game in Gainesville tomorrow was to travel to Miami the next day for the Bills-Dolphins game. Spencer Tillman and Tim Brando, usually the co-hosts of CBS's "College Football Today" studio program, were to drive from Houston and Baton Rouge, La., respectively, to call the Tennessee-Florida game, then head south for the Bills-Dolphins game Sunday.
Dick Enberg was to drive from San Diego to Oakland to call the Jets-Oakland game. Analyst Craig James and producer Lance Barrow planned to drive together for 20 hours from Dallas to Oakland. 
Greg Gumbel was planning to drive from Orlando to Nashville to call the Bengals-Titans game.
At Fox, John Madden and Pat Summerall were already in New York for the Packers-Giants game, but would have worked with a different producer and director than usual. Their longtime producer, Bob Stenner, would have driven from Los Angeles to Tempe, Ariz., for the Redskins-Cardinals game.
On local cable, MSG and Fox Sports New York's plans were uncertain. The two have been running constant news coverage from News 12, but could run some taped sports programs over the weekend. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); BASEBALL (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BOXING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); AUTO RACING (89%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); HIJACKING (76%); TERRORISM (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); TOURNAMENTS (74%); HORSE RACING (72%); NASCAR RACING (72%); AIRLINES (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); BASEBALL; FOOTBALL; BOXING; GOLF 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%); ESPN INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%) ;NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%) SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



360 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Struggling Los Angeles Police To Step Up Recruiting Efforts 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
With morale sapped and hiring growing more difficult at the Los Angeles Police Department, the force's newly installed civilian oversight body has announced it will focus on recruitment in an effort to restore some luster to the tarnished department.
 The department has about 8,900 officers, well below its authorized level of close to 10,200. This is in spite of an extensive campaign to bring in new recruits. 
 Bernard Parks, the department's chief, has said that the biggest problem is the strong economy and the fact of better paying jobs elsewhere. But many experts have rejected that, saying that low morale within the force is a critical factor.
"Given the difficulty that the department has had in reforming itself and the notoriety produced by the Rampart scandal, it's not surprising the Los Angeles Police Department has been unable to meet its recruitment goals," said Mark Steinberg, a lawyer who was a deputy general counsel to a reform effort, called the Christopher Commission, almost a decade ago.
The department has had several scandals in the past decade. These include the televised beating of Rodney G. King, accusations of racism in the O. J. Simpson murder trial and, most recently, the Ramparts scandal, in which a group of rogue officers were said to have beaten suspects, stolen drugs and illegally shot gang members and planted guns on them.
The embarrassment deepened last year when the City of Los Angeles was forced to sign a consent decree with the Justice Department. The decree, which follows years of failed efforts at reform, has placed a federal monitor over the department.
When the new mayor, James K. Hahn, took over in July, he chose a new police commission, which had its first official meeting last week. Rick Caruso, a lawyer and real estate developer, was named the new commission president, and he and the other commissioners called for a major study by an outside consultant of how the Police Department's compensation and benefit package compared with those of other departments.
The proposal requires approval by the City Council, but it appears likely that there will be strong support. 
"This has to be one of our top priorities," Mr. Caruso said. "Morale is an important factor, especially since we have a problem with the retention of officers, who leave for other forces. That is not an economic issue."
The range of starting annual pay for officers here was raised last year to $44,500 to nearly $60,000, depending on experience and educational levels. That is described as competitive with police departments in other large cities.
"I think the commission is doing the right thing," said Dean Hansell, a lawyer and departing member of the police commission. "This is a priority issue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chief Bernard Parks of the Los Angeles Police Department. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (91%); SCANDALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY RECRUITING (77%); MAYORS (76%); LAWYERS (73%); MURDER (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CITIES (69%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (68%); APPROVALS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%) POLICE; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; PARKS, BERNARD (POLICE CHIEF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



361 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: As Activity Resumes in the Bond Market,Investors Send Interest Rates Plummeting 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Investors ran to the safety of the American Treasury market yesterday as trading resumed for the first time since the World Trade Center crumbled on Tuesday morning.
 Interest rates plunged as investors bought securities backed by the United States government and bet that the Federal Reserve would cut short-term rates sharply to help revive economic activity. 
 Technical hurdles were overcome, though it was hardly an ordinary day. Cantor Fitzgerald, a cornerstone of the Treasury market that has lost its headquarters and many of its workers, managed to get its operations running. But another firm evacuated its trading floor during the day, a reminder that nerves are still on edge. 
The yield on the Treasury's two-year note plunged below 3 percent, the lowest level since the security was first issued in the late 1970's. The yield on the 10-year note dropped to 4.64 percent, its lowest level since the fall of 1998. And there were indications that many investors now expect the Fed to soon cut its target for short-term rates by at least half a percentage point, to 3 percent.
The plunge in interest rates was augmented by a sharp decline in consumer confidence in September, according to a report from the University of Michigan. The September reading, however, covered the period through Monday, reflecting the surge in unemployment in August that was reported last Friday, but not the impact of the terrorist attacks on Tuesday.
The bond market held an abbreviated session, ending at 2 p.m. Trading will resume in Tokyo and London overnight and then continue here today, closing again at 2 p.m.
Some major players in the market, including Salomon Smith Barney and Merrill Lynch, operated from backup sites because they had been forced out of offices near the World Trade Center. Staffs were smaller than usual. Some of the inter-dealer brokers, who match buyers and sellers, were not online.
And there were disruptions. The bond trading floor at J. P. Morgan was evacuated around noon. A spokesman said it was "a word-of-mouth false alarm." One bond trader said that prices rallied more than once during the day on reports of building evacuations across the city.
"It's open; it's operating; but no one's heart is really in it," said Michael Cloherty, a bond strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston.
The trading volume in government bonds "was equivalent to a preholiday trading day," said Hal Kinkle, chief executive of BrokerTec, an electronic broker that is owned by the major primary dealers.
Cantor Fitzgerald managed to get its eSpeed electronic broker system up and running by 7 a.m., an hour before the bond market resumed trading, said Howard W. Lutnick, Cantor's chairman. He said the decision to operate was made by his remaining staff members, many of whom slept on the floor in the New Jersey offices to get the job done. 
Cantor's system, which has a major share of the government market volume, is important for trading and for informing most traders of what the "right" price for a Treasury security is at any given time. The system did about 20 percent of its normal average volume, Mr. Lutnick said.
James R. Capra, president of Capra Asset Management in Rye, N.Y., said that Cantor seemed to be able to produce fair prices online, even with few employees in New Jersey and London. "And that is a positive," he said.
At the close of trading, the price on the Treasury's 10-year note was 10230/32 , up 23/32 from early Tuesday, when trading was interrupted. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 4.64 percent from 4.72 percent early Tuesday. The yield on the two-year note plunged to 2.98 percent from 3.51 percent.
Corporate bond prices fell as investors worried about the impact of a sharper economic slowdown. Insurance companies were also shunned because of the expected costs of claims that will be coming. There was little trading in the much riskier high-yield, or junk, bonds.
Some traders said that they did not expect the Fed to cut its short-term interest rate benchmark until after the stock market reopened. The reopening is scheduled for Monday. A rate cut then, these traders said, could help stabilize stocks, especially if there is a sharp decline.
But the expectations of a Fed rate cut are clear in the bond market. At 2.98 percent, the yield on the two-year note is a little more than half a percentage point below the overnight interest rate on loans between banks, which is the Fed's benchmark. That rate is now 3.5 percent. The yield on the October futures contract on the federal funds rate is now down to 2.87 percent. Fed policy makers next meet on Oct. 2, but many analysts expect a rate cut before then.
Charles Parkhurst, the co-head of the United States government bond trading department at Salomon Smith Barney, was running bond trading from an undisclosed backup location in New Jersey with about three-quarters of his traders and staff members. He said that the volatility in the market, reflected in the sharp decline in interest rates, "was exacerbated by the limited number of people" active in the market yesterday.
Another trader said that the settlement of trades was still a problem, contributing to lower volume. Settlement for many trades was extended to three days from one day for Thursday and Friday. "It's not going to be back to normal for two or three days," this trader said.
The other major activity yesterday, besides investors' seeking haven and betting on a Fed rate cut, was dealers and customers reducing their risk. Several traders also said they tried to keep to a minimum any new positions that were an aggressive bet on the movement of interest rates. "It was not about profiteering or opportunism today," Mr. Hinkle of BrokerTec said.
As to where interest rates go from here, that depends a lot on how consumers and the economy respond to the terrorist attack. More economists now expect economic growth to decline in the third quarter because of the shock. But some are forecasting a rebound and say it is still to early to declare a recession.
In a report yesterday, the economists at J. P. Morgan, led by John Lipsky, wrote that the economy would decline in the third quarter and that financial markets would be more volatile. But, the report said that it was premature to say whether the terrorist attack would tip the economy into a recession.
"There will not be lasting disruptions to the U.S. economy or its financial system from yesterday's physical destruction," the report said. "A return to normalcy should be evident by next week. Any lingering harm to the Manhattan economy (which accounts for about 2.5 percent of overall U.S. G.D.P.) will be offset by rising public spending on infrastructure and security."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ioiana Schatan and other traders paused for a moment of silence yesterday at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The Chicago Board of Trade also reopened. Many traders tucked American flags in their pockets in recognition of the victims and survivors of Tuesday's attacks. (Associated Press)(pg. C1) Chart: "How Low Will They Go?"When the bond market reopened yesterday, investors drove interest rates down sharply, with the yield on the Treasury's two-year note ending the day at a new low. Some investors were seeking the safe harbor of the Treasury market and others were betting that the Federal Reserve would soon cut interest rates. YIELD ON SELECTED TREASURY NOTES: The yield moves in the opposite direction of the price Graph tracks the interest rates for 10-year Treasury notes and 2-year Treasury notes from 1965 to 2000.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HIJACKING (69%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%) ;CANTOR FITZGERALD LP; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; SALOMON SMITH BARNEY; MERRILL LYNCH & CO 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: ;FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (77%) UNITED STATES; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



362 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE INVESTORS; 
A Full Reopening Of Stock Trading Is Set for Monday

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Stock markets in the United States will remain closed until at least Monday, as Wall Street continues to reel from Tuesday's devastating terrorist attack.
 At a news conference yesterday afternoon, Richard Grasso, the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, said the Big Board and the Nasdaq stock market would resume trading at 9:30 a.m. Monday. Mr. Grasso said the leaders of the markets wanted to make sure that the reopening would not interfere with rescuers working to save victims and recover bodies at the collapsed World Trade Center towers. 
 "No desire to resume trading," Mr. Grasso said, "will ever take precedence over the desire to find every possible human who is buried in that mess who still lives." 
The delay will also give the markets time to test their communications, computers and power systems, officials said. The Big Board and the Nasdaq will run a full-scale test Saturday, said Hardwick Simmons, chairman of the Nasdaq.
"If we'd gone up any earlier, we would have tested on the fly, and we didn't want to test on the fly," Mr. Simmons said. "We wanted to test fully."
Mr. Simmons, Mr. Grasso, and Harvey L. Pitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, emphasized that the markets, federal regulators and securities firms had agreed on the delay.
Securities firms that were not damaged or destroyed in the attack are offering space and equipment to those that were, Mr. Simmons said. The New York Stock Exchange has offered the American Stock Exchange, which was severely damaged, space for Amex traders on the Big Board's floor.
A host of conflicting pressures lay behind the decision to delay. The federal government and Mr. Grasso have been anxious for markets to reopen as a way to move the United States toward normality after Tuesday's attack. But securities firms and mutual funds had worried that a partial opening might further damage investor confidence, and pressed the markets to reopen in full rather than in a piecemeal fashion.
The physical devastation of downtown may have been the deciding factor. New York's financial district is narrow and congested even under normal circumstances, and some of the area is now blocked by debris, with thousands of rescue workers and hundreds of emergency vehicles adding to the chaos.
Some 75,000 to 125,000 workers would have to travel to the financial district for the markets to be open fully, Mr. Grasso said. The Big Board alone has 3,200 employees. Moving those people through lower Manhattan will challenge the transit system. But Mr. Grasso said that New York City had assured the securities industry that buses and subway trains would be running.
To reduce the strain on the transit system and keep the area as free for rescuers as possible, securities firms will probably reopen in phases over the next few weeks, Mr. Simmons said. Investment bankers and other employees not directly involved with making markets may not return immediately, although that decision will be up to individual firms, Mr. Simmons said.
When markets do reopen, they will be open in full, regulators said. Rumors had swirled around Wall Street that firms might try to restrict the actions of short-sellers, who profit when stock prices decline. But Mr. Pitt said short-sellers would be allowed to borrow and sell stock as they normally do.
"The goal of all us is to have a market that most closely approximates the normal environment," he said.
The Treasury bond market, which opened for trading yesterday, offered some cause for optimism, government officials and traders said. Trading was light, but not abnormally so, and the market appeared to function successfully despite the near-total destruction Tuesday of Cantor Fitzgerald L.P., an important player in the bond market. Cantor's headquarters were situated near the top of 1 World Trade Center. But the stock markets are much larger and more complex than the bond markets.
When trading does resume, stocks may be very volatile. Consumer confidence was skidding even before Tuesday's attack, according to the University of Michigan's confidence survey, which was released yesterday. The confidence index fell to 83.6 in September from 91.5 in August, according to the survey, which was conducted before the attack.
Consumers have been the economy's primary prop for most of this year, as businesses have sharply cut back on capital spending in the wake of the extraordinary investment boom of the late 1990's. But with the unemployment rate rising from 3.9 percent in November to 4.9 percent in August, many consumers were already cutting back on spending and trying to pay down debt before Tuesday's attacks. If consumer nervousness causes spending to fall further, the economy and corporate profits may both slide.
"I can't come out with a scenario that has an upside to it," said Richard DeKaser, chief economist of the National City Bank in Cleveland, Ohio, which has $95 billion in assets. "We're seeing a serious impairment to consumer confidence." 
That view is not universal.
"People may feel a greater sense of unity and cooperation than they have for a while," said Gary Thayer, chief economist at A. G. Edwards, a St. Louis-based brokerage firm. "The sense of cooperation is a clear change in the air."
Woody Dorsey, a behavioral economist who consults for institutional investors, said stocks would probably rise in the first few days after the markets reopen. Investors were already expecting a recession, and although the attack may worsen the recession, it could also lead to a sharper recovery, Mr. Dorsey said.
"People were the most pessimistic in three years, so you already have had a certain amount of discounting," Mr. Dorsey said.
Individual investors appear, not surprisingly, to be paying little attention to Wall Street at the moment. Three major mutual fund companies -- Janus Capital, T. Rowe Price and Vanguard Group -- all reported having received far fewer calls than normal from investors since Tuesday.
Some professionals shared that view. Asked for comment, a top Wall Street strategist said he did not want to talk about how stocks might perform when markets reopened.
"It is very hard to think about stocks in an environment like this," said Marc Cohodes, a prominent short-seller. Mr. Cohodes said Paul Furmato, a good friend, was a trader at Cantor Fitzgerald and died in the attack on the Trade Center. "It's an extremely difficult situation."
But Mr. Grasso said the markets needed to reopen, both to restore investor confidence and to honor those killed and injured at their everyday jobs. "We must return," Mr. Grasso said. "And we will, in the memory of those whom we have lost."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some employees of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, an investment bank, held a meeting in a temporary office yesterday, while the firm sought space for all its workers displaced from Lower Manhattan. (Bloomberg News)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (85%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (85%); SECURITIES LAW (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); BONDS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); TRAINS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); TESTS AND TESTING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET 

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%)

PERSON: ;BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



363 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE REGULATOR; 
In Eye of Storm, A Voice of Calm From Washington

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, Harvey L. Pitt was telling friends that he intended to project a considerably lower profile than his predecessor as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission and that he would go out of his way to avoid making news in public appearances.
 This week, as the world changed after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, so did Mr. Pitt. 
 With most top economic and market policy makers in Washington -- from the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, and the Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, to the White House economic adviser Lawrence B. Lindsey -- hunkered down and invisible from a public craving reassurances, Mr. Pitt has quickly emerged as the calming public presence. 
He said today that he found it imperative to have New York demonstrate the vital role the government could play in helping the markets return to their feet.
"My first concerns are with the lives that were lost and the people left behind to deal with their loss," Mr. Pitt said in an interview on Tuesday afternoon, casting aside a question about the implications for investors. "To my way of thinking, we have very strong financial markets and they operate under incredibly able leadership as I have reaffirmed today. But the loss of lives as a human being is so thoroughly unsettling. I knew many people there."
Like his predecessor, Arthur Levitt, who once ran the American Stock Exchange, Mr. Pitt is intimately familiar with Wall Street. In a Republican administration with remarkably few senior officials from Wall Street, he was acquainted with more people in the World Trade Center than most of his colleagues were. Compounding the tragedy, one of the buildings that collapsed after the attacks had housed the New York regional office of the S.E.C. On Wednesday morning, Mr. Pitt took a train to Manhattan with other officials, becoming the first team of senior officials to make it to New York.
"These markets are remarkably strong and remarkably resilient," he said before leaving. "They will be back functioning quite quickly."
As he traveled by train back to Washington this evening, Mr. Pitt said it was crucial for America's confidence in the markets and the economy that the exchanges open as soon as possible.
"People need to know that the marketplace they've been used to is still going to be there for them," he said.
He said early reports had indicated that no members of the agency's staff had been killed in the attacks.
"My strong hope is we will have mercifully been spared from losing any lives," he said. "That to me is critical. If that's the result, that's all I would want. I don't care about the office or the documents that are lost. We have backups of everything we will need."
Mr. Pitt emphasized that the decisions of when to reopen would be left to the exchanges and their members. He would intervene, he said, only if he concluded that it would not be in the best interests of investors to open, or if he thought that opening only a few exchanges and closing others would create problems.
"Because these markets are all linked, we have to make sure we have a cohesive approach to these issues," he said. "When markets open we want them to open normally and function effectively. It's preferable if the major market centers work in tandem, although I'm not prepared to say that they can't have disparate approaches."
"The S.E.C. can play a very important leadership role by getting people to sit down and talk to one another but not necessarily by dictating the terms of things," he said. 
After a round of industry meetings on Wednesday and again today, he called reporters together to announce the complex logistical steps being taken to resume stock trading.
Mr. Pitt had signaled on Wednesday morning that he believed that the markets would be able to open by today. Aides said he had hoped that a quick opening would provide a palliative to a wounded market and might reduce the possibility of a further downturn in the economy.
But huge logistical problems remained, from repairing electrical and telephone disruptions to opening up streets for people to return to lower Manhattan.
Today, the major stock exchanges said they would reopen on Monday morning after conducting further tests to assure that the markets had the ability to make trades.
As a pivotal figure between the investment houses, the exchanges and other officials in Washington, Mr. Pitt is juggling a difficult portfolio. Along with Wall Street executives, Mr. Pitt and his colleagues in Washington must calculate when the markets are physically able to open, what steps must be taken to avoid wild price swings and how to make sure that enough buyers and sellers can reach the exchange floor to make the market work smoothly. All these issues must be settled while many Wall Street executives grieve.
Opening the markets before the investment houses are ready could precipitate a new crisis. Waiting too long could cause growing economic pressures to bubble over, creating still greater disruptions and further undermining an already shaken public confidence.
Today, Mr. Pitt encouraged investors not to panic. "What we're dealing with is a physical catastrophe," he said. "This is not an economic problem. It is a physical catastrophe."
By all accounts, Mr. Pitt was not the Bush administration's first choice for the S.E.C. job. Nonetheless, industry executives and Washington officials say that Mr. Pitt's background makes him well suited for the assignment.
Virtually all the exchanges and investment houses were until recently Mr. Pitt's clients when he practiced securities law as a senior partner at the Wall Street firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson. They had typically come to him when they faced serious investigations or lawsuits.
Mr. Pitt, 56, is a native of Brooklyn. After attending Brooklyn College and St. John's University School of Law, he joined the S.E.C. and, at the age of 30, became the agency's youngest general counsel. He left a few years later to join Fried, Frank, where he quickly established a reputation as a leading expert in securities law.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harvey L. Pitt, chairman of the S.E.C., at a news conference yesterday. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); HIJACKING (76%); BONDS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TRAINS (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) PITT, HARVEY L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



364 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
A Sense of Determination Survives Terrorist Attacks
The pressing business matters of a few days ago -- profits, bonuses and positions on the corporate ladder -- suddenly seem far less important in the aftermath of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
 Yet along with the distress and anger, the suddenly reduced circumstances and drastically revised priorities, there is also a gritty sense of determination. The bankers, brokers and lawyers say the terrorists may have destroyed a symbol of American capitalism and Wall Street and killed friends, but not the industry or a way of life. Section A. 

Advertisers Offer Their Support
Messages of grief, condolence and support are beginning to emerge from advertisers, agencies and media companies in the aftermath of the attacks. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C2.

Airlines Seek Immunity From Suits
Representatives of American Airlines and United Airlines began lobbying Congress for immunity against lawsuits from family members seeking compensation. Section A.

Few Changes Planned in Middle East
As evidence grows that the attacks were conducted by terrorists with ties to the Middle East, multinational corporations that do business in the Middle East said they were making sure employees are safe, but few plan to remove Americans working in the Middle East or change their business. Section A.

Hijackings May Stir Phone Debate
The debate over the use of wireless phones on commercial airline flights may intensify in light of news this week that passengers aboard the hijacked airliners that crashed in Pennsylvania and Washington called loved ones from the air soon before they died. Section A.

Newspaper Overcomes Obstacles
The Wall Street Journal has continued to publish despite the fact that its staff was scattered amid the rubble of the collapse of the World Trade Center, its computer system had to be recreated in satellite offices 50 miles away and its editors had to pick their way through streets filled with human debris before they could get back to work. Section A.

Prices of Imports Decline 0.1%
Prices of imported goods fell in August for the sixth time in seven months, government figures showed, signaling that the threat of inflation remains subdued. The import price index, which measures the cost of goods and raw materials from abroad, fell 0.1 percent last month after declining a revised 1.5 percent in July, the Labor Department said. A separate report showed that the number of United States workers filing new claims for state unemployment benefits rose last week to the highest level since July. C2.

Oracle Profit Beats Expectations
Oracle reported first-quarter earnings that slightly exceeded Wall Street's estimates despite lower sales. Company executives said they would discuss their financial results in a conference call on the afternoon of the first day that financial markets reopen. C2.

Bayer Won't Sell Its Drug Unit
Bayer said that it would not sell its pharmaceutical division despite pressure from shareholders after the withdrawal last month of the cholesterol-lowering drug Baycol, which has been linked to 52 deaths. C10.

China Trade Talks Continue
Set back by last-minute squabbles and thrown off schedule by the terrorist attacks in the United States, trade negotiators in Geneva are racing to tie up a host of technical loose ends by Monday so that China can join the World Trade Organization. B6.

F.C.C. Reviews Ownership Rules
The Federal Communications Commission proposed alternatives to a limit on cable television ownership and began reviewing a ban on ownership of a newspaper and broadcast station in the same city. C10.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Graph tracks the import prices from March to August. Graph: "TODAY" shows Producer PricesAugust figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.1%Graph tracks prices from February to July. Retail SalesAugust figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3%Graph tracks sales from February to July. Industrial ProductionAugust figures due at 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.3%Graph tracks production from February to July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); HIJACKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT PRICES (85%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); IMMUNITY (73%); LITIGATION (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



365 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1907 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE ECONOMY; 
Amid Anxiety, Markets Edge Back Toward Routines

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
Citing new figures suggesting that the economy was tipping into recession even before the terrorist attacks on Tuesday, economists said yesterday that the ripple effects from the assault would almost surely bring to an end the record-setting expansion that began more than a decade ago.
 Though many Americans were slowly returning to work and to normal shopping patterns, car dealers reported that their lots were empty, real estate agents said buying had slowed, and deal makers said corporations had put off just about every major decision. 
 "Even the traffic past the dealership, the car count, is down," said Raymond J. Scarpelli Jr., owner of two Chevrolet dealerships in northern Illinois. 
Eric Wittenberg, the president of McStain Enterprises, a large independent home builder in Colorado, said: "The uncertainty of the attacks and the uncertainty of how we're going to respond to them is going to weigh heavily on consumers' minds. We're expecting it to be a tougher selling environment for a while." 
In an effort to kickstart the economy and forestall a sharp downturn, the government weighed a variety of options yesterday, with Congress beginning to talk of new spending and tax cuts and with pressure mounting on the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates again soon.
Figures released yesterday showed that consumer confidence was already plunging last week and over the weekend as it became clear that unemployment had surged in August. And there were indications yesterday that people were continuing to lose jobs at a rate higher than expected at the beginning of this month.
Combined with data suggesting that August was a much worse month economically than analysts had expected, the new figures covering the first week or 10 days of September indicated that the economy had entered perilous territory by Tuesday, leaving it highly vulnerable to the chaotic swirl of aftereffects of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
"The economy was struggling mightily to keep its head above water before this event," said Carl Tannenbaum, an economist at LaSalle Bank/ABN Amro, who was in a hotel ballroom near the World Trade Center towers during the attacks. "What we've seen since suggests this is enough to tip us over into recession."
While the stock market was still closed -- regulators said it would be back in business on Monday -- the bond market reopened yesterday, giving the first real hint of investor sentiment. Prices on government bonds surged, with investors seeking a safe place to park their money as the air of deepening economic pessimism mixed with shock and despair.
The Federal Reserve continued to pump money into the financial system, hoping to reassure investment firms and banks that plenty of money was available to help them through any problems that might crop up as the markets begin operating again.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York injected $70.2 billion into the system by buying government securities from bond dealers, one of the biggest such operations in memory. On a normal day, the Fed buys or sells a few billion dollars of securities; on Wednesday, in the immediate aftermath of the attacks, it bought $38.25 billion of securities from dealers.
The Fed also said it had agreed to an arrangement with the European Central Bank under which it will make a $50 billion credit line available to European financial institutions operating in the United States. The agreement is intended to make sure that European banks have access to any money needed to carry them through a temporary financial squeeze, should banks and investment firms have trouble making or receiving payments or settling up for securities trades.
Analysts said the Fed would almost certainly reduce interest rates more aggressively, and keep them low for longer, than it otherwise would have. There was widespread speculation, although no concrete evidence, that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, would consider cutting rates well before the central bank's next scheduled meeting, on Oct. 2.
In Congress, Republicans started drafting plans for a package of fiscal stimulus, including business tax breaks and a reduction in the capital gains rate. Democrats said that they were not sure of the package's fate but that Congress was more likely to agree on further fiscal stimulus than it would have been a few days ago. 
Both parties have informally agreed that the main constraint on tax cuts and spending -- their pledge not to use any of the Social Security surplus -- should be set aside for the duration of the military and economic crisis.
Foreign markets remained relatively stable yesterday, as did the value of the dollar. But economists said they were disappointed at the decision of the European Central Bank yesterday not to cut interest rates.
"This has to be a period of very aggressive actions by the Federal Reserve Board and by Congress and the administration," said Mark Zandi, an economist at Economy.com. "They need cooperation from European and other central banks."
In the United States, policy makers said little of substance yesterday. A scheduled speech in New York by Lawrence B. Lindsey, President Bush's chief economic adviser, was canceled. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill appeared briefly before reporters but took no questions. Roger W. Ferguson Jr., the vice chairman of the Fed, told reporters on Capitol Hill that the central bank would continue to provide the financial system as much liquidity as it needed.
"We've suffered quite a blow, but the financial systems have proven themselves to be quite resilient," Mr. Ferguson said.
Economic indicators released yesterday underscored the difficulty that policy makers will face in keeping the economy from developing much deeper problems. A survey of consumer confidence conducted by economists at the University of Michigan registered a sharp drop early this month to its lowest level since 1993. The researchers said preliminary figures showed the index dropping to 83.6 from 91.5 in August.
The drop encompassed consumers' assessment of two more specific questions the survey asks regarding current economic conditions and expectations for the future. The index of current conditions fell to 93.5 from 101.2 in August. The index of consumer expectations fell to 77.2 from 85.2.
Richard T. Curtin, the survey's director, said much of the fall in the indexes appeared to be related to the news that unemployment had surged in August to 4.9 percent, from 4.5 percent a month earlier.
"Before Tuesday morning, the outlook was already weakening," Mr. Curtin said. "Following the terrorist attack we would expect an even weaker outlook, and the possibility the economy will fall into an outright recession has grown substantially."
Suggesting that unemployment and consumer sentiment could deteriorate, the number of workers filing initial claims for unemployment rose by 21,000 last week, to 431,000, well above what economists had expected.
Janet Yellen, a former Fed governor, said the big question for the economy now was whether consumers "will sit home glued to the TV, feeling that life has become uncertain and it's not a good time to buy a car or a refrigerator."
"If they decide that," she said, "it throws us into a recession."
Business was light but picking up at Briarwood, a large indoor shopping mall in Ann Arbor, Mich. The Nine West outlet was empty at about 3:15 p.m., but J. Crew had a handful of shoppers. Kay Jewelers was empty, but several customers were getting manicures at a salon nearby.
"It's slower than normal," said Joe Weiss, a salesman at a Verizon Wireless kiosk. "Business has picked up today. No new customers yesterday. I know when I'm at home I've been watching TV for the last few days."
Many shoppers in the mall, which closed early on Tuesday but reopened on Wednesday, said they had been absorbed by events but continued to shop. 
"It's very scary," said Shirlee Vining, a 54-year-old claims adjuster, who was at the mall to meet her daughter. "But I've heard what the Congress and the president are saying, and I agree that shooting back too fast is not right."
Dick and Rose McCleery, both retirees, said they were shopping for a kitchen floormat. Though they had been watching more television than usual, little about their normal routine had changed. "I feel sorry for young people," Mrs. McCleery said. "I don't think it's near over yet, and something else might happen soon."
David Weekley, owner and chief executive of David Weekley Homes, in Houston, one of the nation's largest privately held home builders, said: "Everyone is still numb. Today, most people like me are operating at 25 percent speed, just kind of numb at the whole situation. It's the kind of time when everybody hunkers down to their roots and pulls back." 
The tragedy "could cause people to wait," he said.
"It's just an unsure time to move forward with something as significant as a home purchase. I don't think we'll really know for sure how this will affect us until the first of the year." 
Beyond consumers, the confusion surrounding the attacks has slowed business and finance at almost every level. The Campbell Soup Company and the Roadway Corporation, the trucking company, both postponed plans to sell securities to investors.
Some big business deals could come unglued, like the already troubled agreement by Hewlett-Packard to acquire Compaq Computer. Even after the stock market reopens, Wall Street could face difficulties.
Investment banks had been hoping that business would pick up after Labor Day to help bolster revenue in a year in which the number of mergers and acquisitions and initial public offerings had already declined drastically. One of the biggest uncertainties for investment banks and their clients now is whether the prices of stock, often used as currency to make acquisitions, will become unstable.
There were signs that consumers were not totally closeted at home. Some retailers reported a near-run on American flags, which sold out in some places. Some grocery stores and retail chains said business was just about typical. 
"Business is back to normal today," said Mark Matzen, manager of a Home Depot on Santa Fe Drive in downtown Denver. And Tom William, a spokesman for Wal-Mart Stores, said, "We are having a fairly normal day of shopping." 
Indeed, for all the gloom, no one can predict with any precision what effect the attack will have on the economy at home or abroad. Economists said the reopening of the stock market would be a milestone. But other possible factors cannot be assessed yet.
Will the United States, and perhaps its allies, become engaged in protracted military action? Will oil prices shoot up? Will Japan's banking system, already suffocating under the weight of a decade's worth of failed loans, be able to withstand the sharp drop in stock prices there?
The closest historical parallel is from 1990, when a weakening economy was hit with a rise in oil prices and a drop in consumer confidence set off by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and the likelihood that the United States would respond militarily.
The economy did go into recession that time, but the downturn lasted only eight months and was relatively mild, in part because the Fed cut interest rates repeatedly and the war ended quickly.
But it is not clear that the world or the economy will follow the same script this time.
"It seems to me," Ms. Yellen, the former Fed governor, said, "that this is a much bigger event."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As consumer confidence was said to be dropping, few shoppers were in evidence Wednesday afternoon at a Sears store in the Buckland Hills mall in Manchester, Conn. Nancy Sauer wore a United States flag ribbon and had a flag taped to her cash register. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Customers headed for the checkout registers at a Home Depot in Union, N.J., yesterday. In some locations, business was said to be back to normal. But some home builders said they were braced for uncertainty. (Don Standing for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "Waning Consumer Confidence"A preliminary figure for September shows that consumer confidence has fallen to its lowest level since 1993. University of Michigan Consumer Confidence index, 1985 = 100Preliminary September: 83.6 Graph tracks consumer confidence from 1993 through a preliminary September.(Source: University of Michigan)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); EURO (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); BONDS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); BOND MARKETS (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (56%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK; EUROPEAN UNION; LABOR DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: ;STEVENSON, RICHARD W; KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (89%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



366 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE REACTION; 
Financial District Vows to Rise From the Ashes

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Wall Street is not merely the financial nerve center of capitalism, but also a community of fierce competitors, colleagues and friends. It is a community shaken, humbled, angry and determined.
 Nearly everyone who has made a career in the New York financial industry knows someone who is missing, presumed dead. Bankers, traders and brokers have spent the last two days fearfully calling the homes of those who worked on Manhattan's devastated southern tip, hoping to hear familiar voices, safe and alive. 
 They have mourned friends who didn't make it and cursed "the barbarians," as one investment banker described those responsible for the attack on the World Trade Center. 
Even the most devastated companies mustered a defiant tone. "We're going to demonstrate to our enemies and our friends who we are," declared James Dunn, a managing director of Sandler O'Neill & Partners, an investment banking firm missing more than 60 of 166 employees who worked in the World Trade Center. Herman Sandler, the founder of the firm, is among the missing. 
The pressing matters of a few days ago -- profits, bonuses and positions on the corporate ladder -- suddenly seem far less important. Just coping with the dislocation has been all consuming. Their lavish offices reduced to rubble, lawyers and bankers have been forced to hold meetings in living rooms and relocate trading floors to temporary quarters in New Jersey, Connecticut and beyond.
The symbolic significance of bringing Wall Street, the heart of modern global commerce, to a standstill is immense. It is the contemporary equivalent of shutting down the steel mills of the Industrial Age. 
Along with the distress and anger, the suddenly reduced circumstances and drastically revised priorities, there is also a gritty sense of determination. The terrorists, according to bankers, brokers and lawyers, may have destroyed a physical symbol of American capitalism, and killed friends, but not Wall Street as a community or as an industry. 
They will get up today, as so many did yesterday, and try to put their lives and their businesses back together.
"We'll go on, we'll continue," said Andrew Senchak, a director of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, an investment bank that had headquarters high in the south tower of the World Trade Center. More than 60 of the firm's 170 employees in New York are still missing.
Exhausted from two days of sorting through the physical and emotional wreckage of his firm, Mr. Senchak was nonetheless able to rattle off the plans to get back to business.
Keefe, Bruyette's corporate finance department was taking up temporary residence in the offices of an obliging law firm. Mr. Senchak and other executives were shifting some stock trading to offices in Hartford and making plans to handle bond trading from the firm's San Francisco office.
"We lost our trader, but we'll find somebody to trade," Mr. Senchak said.
Yet many are going back to work with understandably heightened fears for personal security. The Salomon bond-trading arm of Citigroup, for example, has moved across the Hudson River to set up shop in northern New Jersey, with a view of the suddenly diminished skyline of Wall Street. The company allowed a reporter to visit yesterday, but asked that the location not be named.
The Salomon bond traders took up temporary residence in offices in New Jersey normally occupied by Citigroup computer programmers and technical support staff. "Today, this is our government-bond desk," said Shawn Feeney, a senior executive, standing amid a warren of cubicles littered with empty pizza boxes and Snapple bottles. 
In the makeshift trading room, pages of white paper were taped to the cubicle dividers, identifying different trading desks for corporate, mortgage and government bonds. The firm had no trouble rounding up traders to come into work.
Indeed, more people wanted to come in than there was room for on the first, tentative day of trading. "People want to be here," said Chris Baine, another executive in the Citigroup bond business. "People feel an obligation to each other to be here."
Mr. Baine described the working atmosphere during the abbreviated, six-hour business day as "respectful, somber at times, and also very humbling." 
"It's eerie," he explained, "to be here rebuilding as we look across at where the trade center used to be." 
Yesterday brought good news from Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, which employed about 3,700 people in the World Trade Center. All but 15 of those had been accounted for by late yesterday afternoon. Morgan Stanley earlier said that most of its employees had escaped the devastation, but the 15 number was far better than expected.
Morgan Stanley had used call centers that handle queries for its Discover credit card to check on many of its workers, but also sent out people to knock on doors. "We went to apartment houses and found them," explained Philip J. Purcell, chief executive of Morgan Stanley.
Mel Immergut, chairman of the Wall Street law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, took a particularly personal approach to the office problem. He opened up his Upper East Side home, the book-lined living room becoming a command center and his elegant dining room a cafeteria for senior partners.
"I had six partners just operating out of our apartment here," Mr. Immergut said, adding that some slept over. 
To communicate with employees and handle some legal business, they used cell phones and Blackberry hand-held computers, and they even commandeered the iMac personal computer of Mr. Immergut's 8-year-old daughter, Allison. His wife, Barbara Lyne, brought in deli sandwiches.
Like so many, Edward Yardeni was far away from danger on Tuesday but by no means untouched.
Mr. Yardeni, chief investment strategist for Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown, was in a plane on business on Tuesday morning. He made the 15-hour drive back to New York from Atlanta, and immediately began calling dozens of friends. Mostly, it was good news, but not all.
"I know people who died," he said, including David Alger, a prominent fund manager, whom Mr. Yardeni described as "a good professional friend."
Nothing really compares to what has happened this week. Still, Wall Street has withstood all kinds of shocks and setbacks over the years, since organized trading began in 1792 under a buttonwood tree.
This is not the first time terrorism has come to Wall Street. In 1920, in an apparent anarchist conspiracy, a horse-drawn wagon loaded with explosives was blown up outside the Morgan Bank, then the pre-eminent symbol of capitalism, killing 38 people and wounding 300. The crime was never solved.
"What is striking is the amazing persistence and continuity of the financial industry in New York," noted Ron Chernow, a business historian and author of "The House of Morgan." "Wall Street has repeatedly demonstrated its resilience and defied predictions of its demise."
Wall Street has long been regarded as an arena of cutthroat Darwinian capitalism, renowned as the home of business barbarians. But the tragedy has brought out a different side of the Wall Street psyche, a spirit of generosity and common purpose.
Investment banks are fairly routinely offering desks, computers and phones to clients and rivals whose offices have been destroyed. John L. Steffens, a Wall Street veteran who runs an investment fund, observed: "Like in every tragedy that I have seen in my business career, the fiercest competitors try to help one another. But nothing was near this magnitude."
No one really knows what will happen when the stock market opens on Monday. Some traders say the markets will surely fall on this bad news for the economy, and others say there may be a contrarian rally, a demonstration of unity and emotional buying.
Most of all, perhaps, the human toll from the tragedy will tinge life on Wall Street and the wider community for a long, long time.
"It is very hard to think about stocks in an environment like this," said Marc Cohodes, a professional stock trader in California. Mr. Cohodes noted that a good friend, Paul Furmato, a trader at Cantor Fitzgerald, had died in the terrorist attack.
"My friend's not going to be around who I talked to 15 times a day for the last 15 years," Mr. Cohodes said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: National Guardsmen patrolling the empty Wall Street district near a statue of the bull. Brokers insist that terrorism will not destroy their industry. (CBS/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TERRORISM (74%); HIJACKING (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (63%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (69%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



367 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: WEST; 
Outpouring of Grief and Sympathy for Americans Is Seen Throughout Europe and Elsewhere

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
Dmitry Danilov, 44, a real estate broker, showed up outside the flower-strewn American Embassy in Moscow bearing a special Russian Orthodox icon for commemorating the departed.
 "Maybe tragedy will unite us with Americans," he said. "We are very similar people." 
 In an extensive and spontaneous outpouring of grief across Europe and the rest of the world for the victims of the attacks on New York and Washington, citizens, heads of government, royalty and critics unaccustomed to confiding sentiments of similarity with Americans are expressing sympathy for the United States and sending urgent messages of encouragement and solidarity.
"You are not alone, America," read a floral tribute from the 11th grade of the Kopernikus Gymnasium in suburban Blankenfelde that was placed outside the American Embassy in Berlin. "America, we will support you." 
A card at the embassy here read, "In sorrow and sympathy with the U.S.A. You supported us in two world wars and more, and we stand with you now."
Flags fly at half-staff across the Continent, hourslong lines back up before official condolence books, towns and cities come to a halt to observe moments of silence, churches are filled with mourners, blood banks are swamped, political contests are toned down, concerts are reprogrammed to honor the dead, and sports events that stir national passions are being postponed.
In Beijing, funeral wreaths pile up on the same pavement outside the American Embassy where two years ago protesters hurled rocks and stones after the NATO bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade.
All that amounts to an extraordinary reversal. For some time, and especially since the Bush administration took office early this year, a current of growing hostility to the United States has been evident in many parts of the world.
Resentments have focused on a wide range of issues, including American use of the death penalty, the politics of the environment, American plans for a missile defense shield, genetically modified food and the extent of American cultural and economic power. 
For now, such sentiments have been forgotten, it seems. Americans who are living or visiting abroad report receiving tearful telephone calls, e-mailed poems and prayers and comments on streets from local people who recognize their accent and want to convey their sorrow directly. 
Mary Stubing, a tourist from upstate New York who is visiting Germany, said she was startled by the show of support. "I think it is fantastic and most appreciated and particularly unexpected, because I am amazed to see how quickly people have responded in a foreign country to something that has happened at home," she said in Berlin.
"I truly believe this will drive the U.S. and E.U. together," Richard Morningstar, the departing American ambassador to the European Union, said today in Brussels. "The key issues on which we demonstrate our common values will take precedence over what I think we can all agree today are some of the lesser issues on which we have been concentrating in the last couple of years."
In countries like Sweden that have practiced carefully calibrated even-handedness in commenting on international political clashes, public and private statements are unabashedly pro-American.
"Any remnants of neutrality thinking, of our traditional balancing act, have gone out of the window now," said Olof Peterson, a professor of political science at the Center for Business and Policy Studies in Stockholm. "There has not been the faintest shadow of doubt, not a trace of hesitation of where we stand, nowhere in Sweden," he told Reuters.
In an editorial commenting on expressions of unwavering support for the United States by Prime Minister Goran Persson, a Social Democrat, Dagens Nyheter, the newspaper, said, "For the first time in years, a Swedish politician was able to talk about our spirit of community with the United States and the American people as a natural thing."
Many people coupled their sympathy with expressions of concern over how the United States would retaliate. "I came to honor the people who died in this tragedy," said Jasena Goldsmithova, 23, a Czech student who was placing a lighted candle at the base of the statue of St. Wenceslas in Prague. "But I hope the U.S. will be careful how it responds and will find the right culprit and that no other innocent victims will die."
President Jacques Chirac of France, in an interview broadcast from Elysee Palace, acknowledged policy differences with Washington in the past, but added that this time "France will certainly have to be at the United States's side."
Members of a police support office in London accustomed to handling American tourists' calls for advice and assistance said they were overwhelmed with calls from people who are seeking to give blood and offering to house travelers who are bound for the United States and who are stranded at airports. 
Lloyd's of London rang its Lutine Bell, salvaged from British frigate Lutine in the 19th century and traditionally rung to signal news of a missing ship.
An English visitor to New York reported seeing a flatbed truck on the Avenue of the Americas filled with construction workers, each holding an American flag. She said it was a sight that she had always associated with jingoistic Yankee patriotism but that this time she found so moving that she cried.
Among the postponed soccer matches were some that pitted the Continent's greatest professional teams against one another. Although there was some grumbling from players and fans, the most common view was the one uttered by Laszlo Boloni, coach of Lisbon's Sporting. "In life," Mr. Boloni said, "there are more important things than football, and we can't be indifferent to what happened in New York." 
In places afflicted by terrorism like Colombia, there was little resort to the cold comfort of knowing that Americans were now experiencing similar deprivations.
Camilo Venegas, 56, a computer store manager, said that despite the violence that has gripped his Andean nation for years, the sight of New York under attack left him dumbstruck. "They never thought something like this could happen," he said. "Now the only thing to do is pray, for those who died, for their families, for a country that at this moment is living the worst of its nightmares."
Buckingham Palace, at the order of Queen Elizabeth II, staged a special Changing of the Guard today dedicated to victims of the attacks. A military band played "The Star-Spangled Banner" while tourists and British onlookers stood silent, grasping American flags and weeping. 
This Saturday's "Last Night at the Proms," an annual event that features bursts of patriotic British music in a jocular sendup of jingoism, announced that it was substituting American classical music for the traditional "Pomp and Circumstance" and "Rule Britannia" and adding the choral finale from Beethoven's Ninth Symphony as a tribute.
"We feel it is vital to respond to people's mood at this somber and difficult time and at the same time to show that music can affirm our shared humanity," said the festival director, Nicholas Kenyon.
At 10 Downing Street, Prime Minister Tony Blair told Britons, "It is important that the Americans know that their allies and friends around the world do stand shoulder to shoulder with them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Flower garden at the old opera house in Frankfurt. European flags circle the Stars and Stripes. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); BOMBINGS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); HIJACKING (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); BLOOD BANKS (66%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (62%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (61%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (50%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

PERSON: ;HOGE, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SERBIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CHINA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



368 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE LIABILITY; 
Airlines Seek to Limit Lawsuits Over Attacks

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
As rescue workers continued to search yesterday for survivors in the smoking wreckage of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, representatives of American Airlines and United Airlines began lobbying Congress to restrict lawsuits seeking compensation.
 Lawyers who specialize in representing plaintiffs said the airlines were the most likely targets for negligence and wrongful death suits for victims on the ground and in the air. Potential payments could run into the hundreds of millions of dollars, the lawyers said. 
 In written and oral presentations yesterday to the Senate and House Commerce Committees, representatives of the airlines asked for legislation that would limit their financial responsibility to only the passengers and crew of the three planes that crashed in New York and Washington and an aircraft that plowed into a field in Pennsylvania. 
"The idea behind the proposal is that the planes were being used as a weapon," said one Democratic Senate aide who saw and discussed the proposal. "They feel this was not something that could be prevented and that they should be protected from liability."
John Hotard, a spokesman for American Airlines, would not say if his airline was seeking protection. "I'm not denying it," he said. "I'm just declining to comment."
Jenna Ludgate, a spokeswoman for United Airlines, also declined comment. "At this point," she said, "our entire focus is on the families of the victims who were on our aircraft."
Airlines and insurers are already staggering from the attacks. Insurance executives estimate the costs for insurers at the World Trade Center could be $30 billion to $40 billion.
In Geneva, the International Air Transport Association said airlines had lost $10 billion in extra expenses and lost sales since commercial air traffic in the United States was grounded Tuesday.
"This is going to be a survival issue for several major carriers and certainly for some regionals," Bryan Bedford, the chief executive of Chautauqua Airlines, a regional airline based in Indianapolis, told Bloomberg News. One regional carrier, Midway Airlines, went out of business yesterday, saying that a drop in reservations and an increase in refund requests after the attacks had made it too hard to recover from a bankruptcy reorganization it began last month.
Sam Buttrick, an aviation industry analyst for UBS Warburg, said that higher security and fuel costs in response to the attacks would add to the industry's expenses.
Senator Christopher S. Bond, a Republican from Missouri, discussed the proposal on the Senate floor as a "means of keeping these airlines from being put out of business."
He said he was not yet offering legislation on the issue, which had been brought to his attention by American Airlines and United. But he urged his colleagues to consider protection for the airlines and an alternative means of compensation for victims' families by the federal government.
He said the organizations that had orchestrated the attacks had hoped to undermine the American economy. "We have a responsibility to make sure that our economy is not crippled," he said.
Lawyers who specialize in liability cases said the families of the victims of the attacks would almost certainly receive much less in compensation through a federal payment program than in court.
"I winced when I heard about this today," said Leo Boyle, the president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America. "No one should be initiating action -- before the victims are even identified, before the funerals -- to take away the existing and longstanding rights of the innocent victims and their families."
While airlines are insured, William Shernoff, a lawyer in Claremont, Calif., who specializes in litigation against insurance companies, said liability claims could easily exceed the coverage, forcing airlines to pay much of the cost of claims directly.
Many corporate insurance policies contain provisions that can nullify coverage in declared or undeclared wars. Hearing political leaders refer to the attacks on Tuesday as acts of war, plaintiffs' lawyers have expressed concern that insurers would reject claims on that basis. But the Chubb Corporation, a big commercial insurer, said yesterday that it would not apply the war provision and had already started paying claims. In Washington, the American Council of Life Insurers said members would not apply the war provision, either. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); AIRLINES (91%); LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (77%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TERRORISM (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INSURANCE (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (84%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: KIT BOND (57%) ;TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



369 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing West: California: State Limits Loan Rates 

BYLINE:  By James Sterngold (NYT) 

 BODY:
 California has become the second state, after North Carolina, to pass a law restricting what is known as predatory lending, the granting of loans with excessive fees and high interest rates to people with poor credit. 
The law would prohibit lenders from forcing borrowers, who are frequently minority members and the elderly, to buy certain kinds of loan insurance. It would also limit the number of "points" lenders can charge to 6 percent of the loan amount, prohibit repeated refinancings and prohibit loans to people who do not have the means to repay them. James Sterngold (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); CONSUMER LAW (88%); PREDATORY LENDING (88%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (87%) CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; CONSUMER PROTECTION; AGED; MINORITIES (US); INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA; NORTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



370 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Oracle's Reported Earnings Beat Estimates by a Penny 

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
The Oracle Corporation, saying it was determined "not to be bowed by despicable acts of terrorism," released first-quarter earnings yesterday that slightly exceeded Wall Street's estimates despite lower sales.
 But the company postponed its usual conference call with investors and canceled all media interviews, conceding that most analysts and investors are too preoccupied by efforts to recover from the terrorist attacks of Tuesday to discuss Oracle's financial results. Based in Redwood Shores, Calif., Oracle is the world's second-largest software maker. 
 Oracle, "without comment or elaboration," said it earned $511 million, or 9 cents a share, in the first quarter of its 2002 fiscal year. The company beat Wall Street's expectations and its results during the comparable period last year by a penny. For the three-month period ended Aug. 31, revenues were $2.24 billion, a slight decline from the $2.26 billion reported in the first quarter last year. 
Hurt by a slumping economy, Oracle said its licensing revenues fell slightly, to $731 million, but that the decline was offset by an improvement in sales of other services and by lowered operation expenses. Operating margins improved to 33 percent, from 29 percent in the comparable period last year.
Company executives said they would discuss their financial results in a conference call on the afternoon of the first day that financial markets reopen. United States securities regulators and the heads of the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, on which Oracle trades, said they intended to resume trading Monday morning.
"We feel it's very important to continue to move forward as a sign of our determination not to be bowed by despicable acts of terrorism, and to that end we've released the numbers as planned," Lawrence J. Ellison, the chief executive of Oracle, said in a statement.
"At the same time, we are fully cognizant of the fact that many, especially the investment professionals concentrated in New York, are currently dealing with the aftermath of Tuesday's tragic events," Mr. Ellison added. "We want to ensure that we do not unduly add to their burdens by scheduling the conference call."
James A. Moore, a managing director with Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown Inc. who works in San Francisco, said the earnings report contained few surprises. Mr. Moore said he expected Oracle to lower its forecast for the current quarter, but he did not fault the company for delaying that discussion.
"In the financial community we've lost a lot of colleagues," he said. "I don't see any problem with waiting until next week to resume business as usual."
Adobe Systems Inc., another software maker, was scheduled to report its third-quarter earnings yesterday afternoon but postponed its announcement until next Wednesday. Analysts expect Adobe to report earnings of 28 cents a share on revenues of $318.6 million, according to Thomson Financial/First Call.
The Thomson Corporation, the parent company of Thomson Financial, said yesterday that 10 of its employees working in the World Trade Center on Tuesday were unaccounted for, and that one employee was killed on the American Airlines plane that crashed into the building.
Oracle also lost a worker in one of the hijackings. The company yesterday identified him as Todd Beamer, a sales account manager based in Iselin, N.J. Mr. Beamer, 32, was going to sales meetings in San Francisco aboard the United Airlines plane that crashed in Pennsylvania. 
Oracle also said that seven of its workers -- not six, as announced Wednesday -- were missing in the World Trade Center. Six of the employees were consultants installing Oracle software. The seventh, who was also a trained emergency medical technician, was working in a building nearby and ran into the building to give assistance. He has not been seen since. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); AIRLINES (83%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (54%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; COMPANY REPORTS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (98%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (84%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORACLE CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES; THOMSON CORP 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (98%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (84%); ADB (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (98%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (58%) BEAMER, TODD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PENNSYLVANIA

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



371 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE EXODUS; 
Seeking New Space, Companies Search Far From Wall St.

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI and LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Just five hours after a jet slammed into the north tower at the World Trade Center on Tuesday, at least one corporation that was still comforting its weeping employees began negotiating with a landlord for new office space -- far from Lower Manhattan.
 Some of Wall Street's biggest names -- like American Express, Citigroup and Lehman Brothers -- are searching for and making deals for new space, which is almost nonexistent in the city's battered financial district. And when they find new offices in places like Jersey City, they are signing leases lasting many years, real estate executives say. 
 The big question, these executives say, is whether companies that leave will come back to downtown Manhattan. "This is not the end of the city," said Leonard Stern, chairman of Hartz Mountain Industries. "But there will be companies with several million square feet that will find homes elsewhere that they'll get used to." 
The loss of some of its biggest employers has led some real estate specialists to speculate that this is the the end of the financial district at the tip of Manhattan, where the city's history began. While such predictions have been made before, the collapse of the World Trade Center towers and associated damage has taken more than 10 percent of the district's prime office space out of the market, with no expectation that it will be replaced soon. 
The equivalent of 15 Empire State Buildings, or an estimated 15 million square feet of prime office space, has been destroyed, or rendered at least temporarily useless. Yet in the financial district, turn-of-the-century temples of commerce still dominate some of the crooked alleys, and there is little room among the landmark buildings for modern office towers.
Of course, the office vacancy rate in Manhattan has doubled in the last year, and as much as 20 million square feet of space is sitting empty. But even before the World Trade Center collapsed, big blocks of contiguous space were rare.
Displaced investment banks, law firms and insurance companies, which are looking for less than 50,000 square feet of office space, are foraging north for space in Midtown. And smaller companies will have even more choices. 
But Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, Nomura, Hartford Casualty, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Empire Blue Cross, Bank of New York, Oppenheimer and dozens of other tenants of the World Trade Center and the World Financial Center need acres of space. So they are casting about in Westchester, New Jersey, Long Island and southern Connecticut for alternatives, though none want to speak publicly or in detail about it for fear of appearing insensitive, real estate brokers say.
And American Express and Lehman Brothers are already signing deals in New Jersey, according to real estate executives on both sides of the Hudson River.
Some real estate executives and city officials say the doomsayers are premature in declaring Lower Manhattan dead. Carl Weisbrod, director of the Alliance for Downtown New York, the business improvement district for the 14,000 companies in the financial district, said he was confident that the area would be rebuilt.
"Downtown could be stigmatized by this event," Mr. Weisbrod said. "But it is more likely that its rejuvenation will become a symbol of New York's indomitable spirit. The fundamental downtown institutions -- the stock exchange, Nasdaq, the Federal Reserve and the Depository Trust -- are not going anywhere."
Temporarily, however, the American Stock Exchange will not be operating out of its building on Trinity Place, which was damaged in the disaster. If trading resumes as scheduled this morning, some of the exchange's business will move to Philadelphia, officials said yesterday. Other trading will take place in a separate area of the New York Stock Exchange.
The potential loss of large financial companies is most worrisome to downtown and to city officials. Not only do the firms pay taxes, but their employees have also received big taxable bonuses that have helped fill the city's coffers and turbocharge its economy in recent years.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has said that state and city officials will do everything they can to not only rebuild the Trade Center but to reinvigorate the financial district as well. But many companies are not waiting around; they are considering signing long-term leases outside New York and, executives said, may not want to undertake the risk or expense of moving back.
"Most companies are looking for immediate disaster recovery, although many companies would prefer immediate long-term solutions," said Mary Ann Tighe, a vice chairman of Insignia/ESG, the real estate company, speaking of the frantic search for office space by displaced companies. "People don't realize the speed with which business must react to stay competitive. They can't wait for the dust to settle."
After the power went down in Lower Manhattan, one New Jersey real estate executive confided, "my phone lit up like you wouldn't believe" with calls from companies displaced by the ever-widening disaster in and around the trade center. 
Yesterday morning, Lehman Brothers, another displaced tenant at the World Trade Center, made its move, edging out rival American Express and laying claim to 300,000 square feet of space in a building in Jersey City, according to real estate executives on both sides of the river.
The firm, which evacuated its headquarters in the World Financial Center on Tuesday morning, declined to comment on the deal or on whether it would return to Manhattan. It is now operating out of a building it had already rented in Jersey City.
American Express, in turn, shook hands on a deal to take 500,000 square feet in two buildings in New Jersey, one in Short Hills, the other in Parsippany, the real estate executives said.
Nancy Muller, a spokeswoman for American Express, could not confirm that, but said the company was "looking throughout the metropolitan area" for offices to house the 4,000 employees who had worked in Lower Manhattan. The company plans to open an interim headquarters in Jersey City as early as today, she added.
The disaster at the World Trade Center may also cause fundamental changes in the way companies house their operations, some real estate executives say. No longer will major corporations concentrate their employees in tall skyscrapers emblazoned with the company name. Nor will they congregate their buildings in a single location or corporate campus, as Goldman, Sachs has done downtown and J. P. Morgan Chase has done on Park Avenue.
"The world has changed," said Mr. Stern of Hartz Mountain, which owns about 175 office building and warehouses in New Jersey and New York. "I'm not sure that tall trophy office buildings will ever be popular again in our lifetime anyplace in the world."
Richard LeFrak, whose family-owned company has apartment buildings in Battery Park City and five million square feet of office buildings in Jersey City, said he expected companies to continue to spread to multiple locations.
"They're going to assess whether having too much concentration in a single location can be compromised by a single event," he said.
Yesterday, city and state officials began meeting with the Real Estate Board of New York and others on a plan to address the short-term needs of hundreds of companies in Lower Manhattan. They also began to identify sites where development could begin immediately.
"At the end of the day, we will do what we have to do to not only replace the space at the World Trade Center but to create even more," said Joseph B. Rose, director of the Department of City Planning. 
The question brokers are asking, however, is whether many companies that have to restart their operations as soon as possible can wait the two years it will take to build new office towers.
Analysts have predicted the demise of the financial district for almost 40 years. In the early 1970's, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey built the 10.5-million-square-foot World Trade Center to provide prime office space and rejuvenate the area, even as law firms and investment banks began migrating to Midtown.
In the early 1990's, a recession left empty one out of every four floors of downtown office space. Many executives said the financial district would dissolve unless the neighborhood's antiquated buildings were demolished. But those same buildings became valuable during the boom in the late 1990's, when vacancy rates dropped to 2 percent.
"Even before this happened, people were thinking about whether they should be on one power grid," said James Kuhn, president of Newmark & Company. "This will accelerate their thinking about whether they should be under one roof. But I still believe that in the long run, New York will be the financial capital of the world. Our resolve is strong." 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about companies that might choose to move out of Lower Manhattan misstated the day the New York Stock Exchange was expected to reopen. It was today, not Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HIJACKING (78%); BONDS (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); TRENDS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); CITIES (76%); AIRLINES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); HISTORY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TERRORISM (65%); INSURANCE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (56%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%); BK (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; JERSEY CITY (NJ); 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



372 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Winning the Business Game With a Few Basic Principles

BYLINE:  By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
JACK
Straight From the Gut
By Jack Welch, with John A. Byrne
Illustrated. 479 pages. Warner Business Books. $29.95
 Any chief corporate executive whose company's stock price increased nearly 3,000 percent in the 20 years he was boss is the kind of businessman other captains (and would-be captains) of industry want to listen to. Or at least that is what Warner Books seemed to be thinking when it paid Jack Welch, the recently retired chairman and chief executive of General Electric, an advance of some $7 million for a book in which he would reveal his business history. The size of the advance, combined with Mr. Welch's living-legend status, ensured that his new book, "Jack: Straight From the Gut," would be one of the most anticipated business books of all time. 
 But despite some blunt talk and a good deal of information about G.E.'s dealings over the years, "Straight From the Gut" does not live up to its billing. In it, Mr. Welch, aided by John A. Byrne, a senior writer at Business Week magazine, tells his life's story and describes the vision that made G.E. perhaps America's most successful large, traditional corporation (as opposed, say, to new-economy upstarts like Microsoft).
Yet you read this book almost surprised at how ordinary Mr. Welch himself seems to be and how conventional his wisdom is. Even though the book is almost 500 pages long, it reads like one of the many articles about Mr. Welch and his company that have appeared over the years, offering little information that hasn't been disclosed before. The book has a predictable, packaged, formulaic quality. It is exactly what the intellectual and stylistic conventions for this kind of effort would dictate, and, in this sense, it is a better illustration of American business culture than it is a tool for seeing into it. 
Mr. Welch tells of his modest beginnings in an Irish Catholic working class family from Massachusetts, attributing a good deal of his success later in life to the lessons he got from his strong-willed mother early on. He recounts his education at public school, at the University of Massachusetts and at the University of Illinois, where he got a Ph.D. in chemical engineering in 1960. His first job was with the G.E. plastics division in 1960, and it took the very hard-working, golf-playing and obviously savvy Mr. Welch a bit more than 20 years to become chief executive.
He tells a happy story, maintaining a tone of rugged cheerfulness throughout, though he does allow for some pain and admits a few major failures. Mr. Welch is the Ronald Reagan of the world of business. He does not describe himself as especially smart, but he had a hard-headed attachment to a few basic principles. He delegated authority to executives, expecting them to take direct responsibility for the results they got, and he showed no hesitation in getting rid of them if they didn't meet his expectations.
Business for him is a competition in which winning allows for no illusions or sentimentality, and Mr. Welch wanted to win. In his book, he refers to the labels that were applied to him -- most notably Neutron Jack, "the guy who removed the people but left the buildings standing," as Mr. Welch himself sums this up. But he argues, persuasively, that whatever names he was called, winning the competition had, both morally and practically, to come first. 
"I've never seen a business ruined because it reduced its costs too much, too fast," Mr. Welch writes. The context here was his decision to abandon G.E.'s further manufacture of nuclear power plants and to turn exclusively to servicing those already in existence. As Mr. Welch saw it, public opinion had turned decisively against nuclear power and it was an illusion to think that more plants could be built and sold domestically.
"Facing reality sounds simple -- but it isn't," he continues a bit later. "I found it hard to get people to see a situation for what it is and not for what it was, or what they hoped it would be." 
After the collapse of so many technology stocks, that bit of homespun wisdom comes across as positively prophetic. Indeed, casting aside the accusation that he was ruthless in his willingness to close plants and lay off workers, Mr. Welch blames himself for not doing more, faster. "I waited too long to close uncompetitive facilities," he writes. And in what might be the crispest statement of his position, he says: "Only satisfied customers can give people job security. Not companies." 
Mr. Welch provides capsule, insider histories of G.E.'s major business decisions under his leadership. These include the acquisition of a major broadcasting arm in RCA (which gave G.E. ownership of NBC) and the purchase (and the later divestiture) of Kidder, Peabody, the investment banking firm. Mr. Welch also provides a quick history of his failed effort at the very end of his tenure to acquire Honeywell, a move that was foiled by European antitrust laws.
These stories, briskly told, are probably the most revealing in Mr. Welch's book, though here, too, the basic facts have been copiously reported elsewhere. The writing throughout is straightforward and plain, but also heavily tainted by corporate jargon and off-the-shelf figures of speech -- "Greg lived far outside the box," "able to turn on a dime," "but it's a helluva lot more." 
What "Straight From the Gut" does not offer is a compelling, interesting, revealing portrait of the world that Mr. Welch inhabited at the top of a major corporation. His descriptions of the rich and the powerful he knew have a club newsletter quality to them, as if Mr. Welch were giving a speech at the annual dinner rather than letting us know what it's really like at the top. Nobody's reputation will be tarnished here, nobody who counts annoyed. Missing, too, in addition to genuine self-reflection, is a larger theme than the business-magazine concerns that take up most of Mr. Welch's space, the sort of deeper consideration of America and General Electric that would have moved this story from CNBC to the History Channel. 
Or perhaps it's a simpler matter: namely, that being a great chief executive and being a good writer of books are not the same. Mr. Welch was certainly a great tycoon, but "Jack: Straight From the Gut" shows him to be unexceptional, pedestrian as a chronicler of his own times and places.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Welch (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); FAMILY (71%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); GE PLASTICS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2672 COATED & LAMINATED PAPER, NEC (51%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (94%) WELCH, JACK; BERNSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: JACK: STRAIGHT FROM THE GUT (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



373 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: New York's Theaters and Museums Open in a Bold Resolve to Persevere 

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
STILL reeling from Tuesday's deadly attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, some of New York City's cultural institutions have decided to fight the grief and fear in the only way they know, with an array of special concerts, benefits and bold displays of creative energy and perseverance.
 At the urging of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Schuyler G. Chapin, the commissioner of cultural affairs, many of the city's premier museums opened their doors yesterday, after closing in the wake of the attacks. Meanwhile, producers vowed that all 23 Broadway productions would be performed last night after a moment of silence and a dimming of the marquee lights in recognition of the victims. 
 Joseph Volpe, general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, announced that the Met would stage a special performance of its opening-night gala on Sept. 22 at 8 p.m., featuring excerpts from three Verdi operas, with stars like Deborah Voigt, Placido Domingo and Roberto Alagna. The concert, at the Metropolitan Opera House, will benefit victims, families and the relief effort at the smoky southern tip of Manhattan. 
Across the plaza at Lincoln Center, the New York City Opera is also working to arrange a benefit in early October, a performance of Wagner's "Flying Dutchman," which was canceled on Tuesday night. That work, as well as a performance of Gilbert and Sullivan's "Mikado," will open the company's season tomorrow.
The flurry of activity in theaters, opera houses and museums represented a concerted effort by political and cultural leaders to return the city to some semblance of normalcy.
"As one of the leading arts organizations in New York City and our country, we feel it is our duty to serve our community in whatever way we can," Mr. Volpe said in a statement. "We pray that the healing powers of music will help us all through." 
Mr. Volpe added that the Met had already received more than $1 million in contributions -- including a large donation from Deutsche Bank -- and hoped for an additional $400,000 at the box office, with a goal of raising more than $2 million for the relief effort.
Similar benefits and donations were being discussed among the League of American Theaters and Producers, Broadway's trade group, which has also suggested that Broadway casts sing "God Bless America" or other patriotic songs after performances. 
"We've talked to the mayor and other officials, who made it clear that they feel we should get back to work," said Jed Bernstein, the president of the league. "Everyone feels it's important to start to restore confidence in New York and our community."
But despite the open doors, the city's cultural institutions are still facing an array of challenges, from lost revenue to continuing bomb threats in Times Square and the numbing fear and sorrow plaguing casts, crews and audiences. 
For some, the impact was immediate and tragic. Mr. Volpe reported that many of the Met's company members had lost "family, friends and neighbors," a sentiment echoed on Broadway, where several productions reported that people connected with the shows had lost kin, although officials at the league could not confirm any deaths as rescue and recovery operations continued. 
Lincoln Center Theater said one chorus member of the road company of the hit musical "Contact," whose name was not released, had lost two family members in the attacks. And 14 firefighters from the three units at 782 Eighth Avenue, at West 48th Street, informally known as the Broadway Firehouse and charged with protecting the theater district, were missing and presumed dead, Fire Chief George Maier said. 
Entertainment executives were also dealing with other sensitive issues. NBC decided Wednesday to postpone by one week the premieres of its fall shows, due to begin on Monday. The New York Post also reported yesterday that two Hollywood films, "Collateral Damage" and "Big Trouble," both scheduled for fall release, would delay their premieres indefinitely because of their sensitive subject matter. "Collateral Damage" featured a scene of an attack on a skyscraper, while "Big Trouble" depicts a nuclear device being smuggled past airport security, The Post reported.
A similar postponement was announced yesterday by the Roundabout Theater Company, which said it was canceling a planned revival of Stephen Sondheim's "Assassins," which includes references to attacks on the White House and bombings. In a statement Mr. Sondheim and John Weidman, who wrote the musical's book, said that "in light of Tuesday's murderous assault on our nation," it was not an appropriate time to present the show. 
This was not the first time that show has endured unfortunate timing. The original production, at Playwrights Horizons, opened in January 1991, during the Persian Gulf war, a factor that some blamed for the lukewarm response of many audiences. 
For all of the anxiety still palpable, there were indications that audiences were hungry for cultural fare. By 4 p.m. yesterday, 8,270 people, more than normal for this time of year, had visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which has a special exhibition of Egyptian photographs (review on page 23). The museum, which closed on Tuesday, reopened yesterday at the request of the mayor, "to restore a sense of civic equilibrium," said Harold Holzer, the museum's vice president for communications, in addition to providing a place for visitors stranded in the city by the airline shutdown. 
Mr. Holzer said the request to open came in a phone call yesterday from Commissioner Chapin to David E. McKinney, president of the Metropolitan.
The Theater Development Fund, whose downtown TKTS booth at the World Trade Center was destroyed, also reopened its booth in Duffy Square yesterday. There, too, crowds formed normally, with tourists eager for tickets as well as a respite from the thrum of televised reports about the terrorist attack. 
"We just wanted to do something," said Sirpa Makinen, 35, a biologist from Finland visiting the city with nine friends, who was standing in the TKTS line, "to have something to do."
Still, even as uptown reopened yesterday, many downtown institutions remained shuttered, as Manhattan traffic below 14th Street was still off limits to traffic. Most galleries in SoHo were closed, though many in Chelsea were open for business. 
In theaters, logistical problems were rife. The producers of "Urinetown" delayed plans for an official Broadway opening at the Henry Miller Theater last night after critics' performances were canceled on Tuesday and Wednesday. Opening night is now planned for Thursday. 
Off Broadway, at the Vineyard Theater on East 15th Street, crews were waiting for delivery of the sets and lights for "Unwrap Your Candy," a program of four short plays by Doug Wright, from shops in New Jersey and Long Island when they saw the World Trade Center towers collapse. 
"We were all down here when it happened," said Douglas Aibel, the company's artistic director. "We were so traumatized that everything stopped. We just wanted to make sure everyone was O.K." Yesterday the company was still waiting for much of its gear; performances are to begin on Wednesday, although a delay is likely, Mr. Aibel said. 
Rehearsals for the coming musical "Mamma Mia!" at 890 Broadway, usually one of Broadway's busiest rehearsal halls, were also canceled as the tragedy unfolded. 
"We tried to rehearse one scene, and no one could concentrate," said Thomas Capps, the show's stage manager. "We just sat around and listened to the radio."
The canceled performances will have an economic impact on Broadway, where total box-office receipts were already slumping in recent weeks as summer tourist audiences departed and no new shows opened. Last week's gross -- $9,603,452 -- was the lowest of the new 2001-02 season, and ticket sales this week were nearly nonexistent as the tragedy unfolded. 
Most likely to feel the pinch were long-running shows, which rely on tourists and suburbanites, who are finding it difficult to make it into the city.
While most shows have insurance that reimburses them for their expenses for lost shows, Roy Gabay, the general manager of "Tick, Tick . . . Boom," at the Jane Street Theater in Greenwich Village, expressed concern that it could be weeks or months before claims were processed. "I can't even begin to budget when we'll get the money," he said. 
That show, by Jonathan Larson, author of "Rent," faced an additional problem: how to promote a show whose very title might make people skittish.
"We've had a lot of conversations about how to advertise," Mr. Gabay said. "Do you not use the title? Do you call it 'the Jonathan Larson musical'? Do you not advertise? We just don't know." 
With some shows suffering, Alan Eisenberg, executive director of Actors' Equity, said his union would be working with the league to make up the three performances that were canceled on Tuesday and Wednesday. He added that no formal request had yet been made.
Still, there were innumerable stories of people in the arts pitching in and carrying on in ways large and small. Many shows reported that their casts and crews were organizing blood drives. Anthony DePaulo, an international representative of Local 1 of the stagehands' union, the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, said his office had received more than 100 calls from members wanting to join the rescue operation. 
The Actors' Fund and Equity also has organized support groups at today at 3 p.m. at its offices at 729 Seventh Avenue, at 48th Street, in Manhattan, for anyone in need of counseling. 
Theater people are not predicting a quick return to normalcy, however. At a meeting of the theater league's executive committee on Wednesday afternoon, much of the conversation focused on how to address audience members, some of whom will undoubtedly question how appropriate it is to laugh or sing at a time like this. Similar sentiments were being voiced in Internet chat rooms, like TalkinBroadway.com, which was filled with comments voicing concern over the theater's ability to carry on.
"How long will it take for Broadway to get back on its feet again?" a writer identified as Pattilover asked. "I mean, they can start up again today for all intents and purposes, but are people going to want to get back into the theater after such a horrible event? Will the comedies be funny? Will we laugh at 'The Producers' anymore? (Can we even think to laugh at Hitler anymore?) Will we care about what Urinetown is? Will we want to come and meet any dancing feet?"
No one knows for sure. But many veterans of a business built on fantasy were hoping that they might have a part in salving the wounds of a city in the grim grasp of reality.
"We know that during the healing process the show may not land the way it usually does," said Tom Viertel, a producer. "The only thing we can do is put on the best damn show we can."

GRAPHIC: Photos: DARKNESS -- A closed St. James Theater on Tuesday in the wake of disaster. Cultural institutions now see a role in helping the city return to normal. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times); GOING ON -- From top, "Urinetown," whose opening was postponed, is now set to open on Thursday; Placido Domingo is to sing at the Met on Sept. 22; and the New York City Opera plans to perform Wagner's "Flying Dutchman" tomorrow. (From top, Barbara Alper for The New York Times; Sara Krulwich/The New York Times; Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. E1); West 44th Street, Broadway's heart, was like a ghost town on Tuesday. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSIC (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (75%); THEATER (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); FILM (69%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; THEATER; MOTION PICTURES; CULTURE; MUSEUMS; OPERA; THREATS AND THREATENING MESSAGES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%) ;METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO 

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%) ;SONDHEIM, STEPHEN; CHAPIN, SCHUYLER G (COMR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ;COLLATERAL DAMAGE (MOVIE); BIG TROUBLE (MOVIE); ASSASSINS (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



374 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: British Conservatives Choose 'Euroskeptic' Leader; Facing Fractious Party 

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
The Conservatives announced today that they had chosen as their new leader Iain Duncan Smith, a former military man known for his fierce opposition to Britain's further integration into Europe.
 In a mail-in vote, Mr. Duncan Smith, 47, defeated the former chancellor of the exchequer, Kenneth Clarke, 61, the party's best-known supporter of Britain's becoming more actively engaged in European projects like the common currency, the euro. Mr. Duncan Smith received 61 percent of the vote. 
 Defining Britain's role in Europe has been the single most divisive issue for the Tories in the past decade, and the most urgent task facing Mr. Duncan Smith tonight was to start uniting his fractious party.
Priggish in appearance, Mr. Duncan Smith would not seem at the outset to be a formidable adversary for Prime Minister Tony Blair, a glamorous, telegenic leader given to inspirational messages and adept -- as he has proved in two successive elections -- at winning the political argument in modern-day Britain. 
Officials at 10 Downing Street were known to be more worried about a possible victory by Mr. Clarke, a vastly more experienced politician with a bruising debating style and the kind of glad-handing pub-counter personality thought necessary to bring disaffected Tory voters from middle Britain back into the fold.
So worried were many Tory officials about the party's declining electability that during the three-month campaign, supporters of each man threatened to abandon the Conservatives if the opposing candidate won, a potentially menacing development for a party that is already depleted of numbers, riven with internal feuding and short on new talent. 
Earlier this month, former Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd, now a member of the House of Lords, said moderate Conservatives would revolt if Mr. Duncan Smith tried to impose his hard-line "euroskeptic" views on them. 
The results of the postal balloting of the party's 318,000 eligible members were announced in a low-key ceremony at Conservative Central Office this evening, a day later than scheduled and with none of the planned festivities, out of deference to the victims of the bombings in New York and Washington.
The subject of Europe did not come up in Mr. Clarke's brief concession remarks or Mr. Duncan Smith's victory speech. 
"Today is not a day for party politics," Mr. Duncan Smith said. He devoted his comments instead to sending prayers to the American people and pledging that he and his party would stand "shoulder to shoulder" with Prime Minister Tony Blair in his support for the United States. 
Mr. Duncan Smith's first act as leader was to go to the American Embassy and sign a condolence book. 
The new leader was the original long shot in a field of five to succeed William Hague, who stepped down hours after the Tories' election loss on June 7. It was the second consecutive crushing defeat suffered by the party that was long Europe's greatest vote-getting machine.
Even though both candidates strove to marginalize their differences over Europe in their stump appearances, the outcome was likely to be seen as affirmation of the deep-seated Conservative antipathy to Britain's abandoning the pound for the euro and joining what Mr. Duncan Smith calls "the European superstate." 
During the race, Mr. Clarke promised he would take "a very low profile" on Europe if elected, and he asked his backers to "shut up about the euro." For his part, Mr. Duncan Smith denied that he was "obsessed by Europe -- far from it" and protested characterizations of him as a single-issue candidate.
Mr. Clarke, an outgoing and popular figure in British politics with a famously rumpled look, put himself forward as the best candidate to attract disaffected Tory voters in the next election. He argued that Mr. Hague's opposition to Europe may have been popular with the Tory faithful but didn't prove popular with the electorate as a whole.
Mr. Duncan Smith, a Sandhurst-schooled former Scots Guard officer with a more disciplined and retiring manner, argued that the Tories should never abandon their "core principles and beliefs" but needed to change the way they communicated them to the public.
Labor holds a 167-seat majority in the 659-seat House of Commons. Mr. Blair is eager to have Britain enter monetary union but wary of proposing it until the economic arguments are more persuasive and the chances of winning a promised referendum sure. 
Mr. Duncan Smith gained the backing of Mr. Hague and former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Mr. Clarke won the support of former Prime Minister John Major.
Mr. Duncan Smith first came to prominence on entering Parliament in 1992 when he helped lead the fight against Mr. Major's ratifying the Maastricht Treaty, the agreement that laid the groundwork for setting up the European single currency that goes into effect in January.
His views on abortion, the death penalty, gays in the armed forces, lowering the age of consent for homosexuals, corporal punishment in the classroom and most recently the proposed missile defense shield put him securely on the right of the Conservative Party.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iain Duncan Smith, a long shot in a field of five candidates for the position of Conservative Party leader, greeting supporters with his wife. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (57%) HOGE, WARREN; DUNCAN SMITH, IAIN; CLARKE, KENNETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (98%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



375 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE NEEDIEST; 
Disaster May Tax Charities

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
Agencies supported by The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund said yesterday that they were preparing for a wave of need for food, clothing, shelter and emergency cash that is more profound than anything they had seen. "We anticipate that there's going to be a need far greater than our agencies are prepared to deal with," said Edmund Moore, chief operating officer of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies.
 And the agencies are expecting to see many people who have never before depended on charity. "We might see need from people from a higher economic rung than we've been seeing," said Judith Milone, assistant director of member services at the federation. "This is redefining the neediest right before our eyes." 
 There was hope yesterday that the sudden tremendous needs in New York would be met by great generosity as well. The New York Times Company Foundation, which created the 9/11 Neediest Fund on Wednesday, reported gifts yesterday totaling nearly $2.1 million. A $1 million gift came from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and another for the same amount was given by the Edmund J. Safra Foundation. In addition, as of 7:30 p.m., 774 people pledged $93,944 to the fund online, at CharityWave.com.
At social service agencies across the city, officials and social workers worried about children who had lost their mothers or fathers, and about jobs lost after the collapse of downtown offices, particularly among lower-income workers. 
Grief counseling will be among the first major needs to be addressed, the agencies reported. 
Counselors from FEGS, a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York, visited the 69th Regiment Armory, on Lexington Avenue at 26th Street, where the city set up a temporary station for people seeking missing relatives. "We try to and help them deal with their feelings and their grief and give them support," said Gail Magaliff, chief operating officer of FEGS. 
The money given so far will offer help and promise to those in need. "If you have a breadwinner who's not going to be coming home," Mr. Moore said, "it doesn't take long to get behind on your bills when those paychecks stop coming."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
FDR Station
P.O. Box 5314
New York, N.Y. 10150

Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an internet donations service.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

*New address as of 9/12

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about contributions to The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund, which supports charities helping victims of the World Trade Center attack, misspelled part of the name of a foundation that gave $1 million. It is the Edmond J. Safra Foundation, not Edmund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); TERRORISM (73%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CHILD WELFARE (70%); CITIES (70%); GRIEF COUNSELING (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LABOR; FOOD; APPAREL; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (55%) NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



376 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE CORPORATE RESPONSE; 
Multinationals Will Protect Workers, but Plan to Remain in Hot Zones

BYLINE:  By JULIAN E. BARNES and LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
As evidence suggests that Tuesday's attacks were conducted by terrorists with ties to the Middle East, multinational corporations that do business in the region said they were making sure that their employees were safe. But few plan to remove Americans working in the Mideast or make changes to their business.
 Still, as the Bush administration prepares to respond to what officials have called an act of war, companies operating in nations that may have sheltered, supported or fostered the people behind the attacks could face pressure from customers or from Washington to pull out. 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell yesterday identified Osama bin Laden, a Saudi exile who has taken refuge in Afghanistan, as the prime suspect in engineering the attacks against the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. That has put the focus of potential retaliation in central Asia, though that could change if the United States concluded that an Arab country had provided support. 
Many energy companies have little choice about where they do business. Arab countries are among the most important sources of oil.
Tom Cirigliano, a spokesman for Exxon Mobil, said his company was always concerned about Middle East stability, but he expressed hope that oil would continue to flow. "We've been pleased by the statement OPEC is making where they have guaranteed crude oil to the United States," Mr. Cirigliano said. "It is an important source for us, which not only supplies energy but economic stability to this country."
Other oil companies were reluctant to discuss how they would deal with any supply problems they might face after Tuesday's attacks. A Chevron spokesman, Fred Gorrell, declined to say how Chevron might ensure that its oil operations remained working in case of a conflict. There are no reports of problems now, he said, and "we don't have anything more to say than that."
Construction companies, with many American employees in the Middle East region, may face hard choices. "It has an impact," said Alexander Winslow, a spokesman for the Bechtel Group in San Francisco, one of the world's largest engineering and construction concerns, with 50,000 people working on more than 1,000 projects in 66 countries. "It is not business as usual."
Officials at Fluor, a multinational construction company in Aliso Viejo, Calif., with operations in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and the Caucasus republic of Azerbaijan, said they were determined not to let the recent events hamper projects. "We've been through World War II and the Persian Gulf war," a spokesman, Keith Karpe, said. "We've faced these challenges in the past, and we don't expect to slow our operations. In fact, employees are determined to let the opposite occur."
John McGinty, a Boston-based analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston, who covers multinational construction companies with Mideast operations, said it was almost unfair to compare the attacks in New York with conflicts like the gulf war. For one thing, he said, Mr. bin Laden does not say he acts on behalf of any government.
"Even if he is in the Middle East," Mr. McGinty said, "you can't say this is someone from Saudi Arabia or Lebanon. If Bechtel is doing business in Saudi Arabia, it will not have an effect on them unless we attack Saudi Arabia or its interests."
Most American companies that do business in the Middle East or in China, he said, are not tied to one political cause and have been dealing with terrorist threats for decades. 
"This is the cost of doing business there," he added.
Consumer products companies face different problems. For them, the Middle East is a small market. Colgate-Palmolive, for example, records only 0.5 percent of its sales in the region, and Procter & Gamble has less than 3 percent of sales there. A spokesman for Gillette said about 7 percent of its revenue came from a broader area including Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Still, by selling their products in the region, companies like Colgate, Gillette and Coca-Cola could open themselves to pressure to pull out of countries linked to the attack -- in much the way activists applied pressure on multinational corporations to leave South Africa under apartheid rule and China after the killings in Tiananmen Square in 1989.
But many consumer products companies said they withdraw from a country only when Washington imposes an embargo.
A Gillette spokesman, Eric Kraus, said his company sells products to 1.2 billion consumers every day in 200 countries and territories.
"As a consumer products manufacturer, we do not align ourselves to a local political environment," he said. "Rather, we comply with U.S. trade laws."
Unilever, the British-Dutch consumer products company that produces a wide range of goods including Lipton tea and Dove soap, said it had begun daily conference calls with its installations worldwide, but had no plans to leave any country.
"By being in a country we promote transparency, social and political change," a Unilever spokesman, Stephan Milton, said.
Executives from other companies said it made little sense to withdraw from countries because other distributors and wholesalers would just fill the void. "Whether you put them there or not, if there is a market for them they will get there," one executive said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DESERT STORM (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (74%); WORLD WAR II (71%) TERRORISM; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (83%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (83%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%) BARNES, JULIAN E; HOLSON, LAURA M; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



377 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE MAYOR; 
Giuliani Takes Charge, and City Sees Him as the Essential Man

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
While the world has yet to learn precisely who is responsible for the terror that engulfed New York City, there is little doubt about who is containing the aftermath.
 From the moments after the first plane rammed into the World Trade Center on Tuesday morning, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has taken an orderly control of how the city would respond, even when trapped in a building near the fiery towers as the first collapsed to the ground, engulfing him in smoke and debris. 
 Acting at once as chief operating officer of the city -- personally monitoring, for instance, how many pounds of debris have been removed by the hour to securing low-interest loans to rebuild the city -- to city psychologist, trying to assure a grief-stricken and terrified population that they are safe and that he knows they are hurting, the mayor has almost unilaterally managed to create the sense that the city and by its proxy, the nation, are scratching their way back to normalcy. 
The horrific situation illuminates how the mayor, who is known to explode over seemingly small slights, maintains an almost unparalleled sense of calm and control in the most stressful of times, literally embracing his political enemies in the process. Mr. Giuliani shared a private hug with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton after a joint briefing on Wednesday with the city's Congressional delegation and City Hall officials. And yesterday, he met with former Mayors David N. Dinkins and Edward I. Koch and religious leaders to plan a prayer service for the city. All were invited at the mayor's behest.
But while Mr. Giuliani has shared the podium and the credit with his counterparts in the state and federal governments, he has personally overseen almost every aspect of the attempt to reconstruct the city's infrastructure, economy and psyche as well as comforting families who are waiting to recover their loved ones.
"The mayor is able to do this because he is always looking forward," said Deputy Mayor Joseph J. Lhota. "The ability to do that has always gotten us through hard times. It may be one of the few aspects of this administration that is overlooked."
On Tuesday morning, the mayor was at a private breakfast meeting in Midtown when he received a call from Mr. Lhota, who had been sitting at his desk in City Hall writing his secretary a note when he heard the explosion. Running into the parking lot, Mr. Lhota grabbed the mayor's spokeswoman, Sunny Mindel, and they both hopped in his car to meet Mr. Giuliani at the World Trade Center. By the time they all got there, the second plane was approaching the south tower, and cell phones had gone dead. The mayor ran with his aides up West Street, looking for land lines. They told top Fire Department officials at a command post that they would talk to them later. 
They found their way into 75 Barclay Street, an office building just north of the twin towers, in search of telephones. Mr. Giuliani's chief of staff, Anthony Carbonetti, got on the phone with the White House. They heard rumbling, and the front of the building where they had taken refuge came down. The room filled with smoke and debris. No one knew, including the mayor, what had happened. A security guard led the mayor and several of his aides through the basement of the building, through an intricate web of tunnels to 100 Church Street, where they emerged shaken but unscathed. 
The mayor then held a hastily put together and sparsely attended news conference for the few journalists who had found their way to the same corner at West Broadway and Church. "The mayor was adamant to have communication," Ms. Mindel said. "He was adamant to let it be known that we were not going to cede the city." The mayor, his aides and the few reporters made their way up West Broadway, deliberating as they moved which way to go next. 
They heard another rumble. A huge plume of smoke chased the group up the street as the mayor and others literally ran for their lives. The north tower had come down. The group took refuge in the Tribeca Grand Hotel. The mayor looked around, nixed it as a possible command post and from there the group went its way to a fire station on Houston Street and Avenue of the Americas. They waited 15 minutes until someone came to unlock the door.
Since the moment they found another location in Midtown, the mayor started commencing meetings with all of his key deputies and commissioners to get updates and hear requests for resources. The drill is always the same: everyone sits around a large table, and the mayor goes to each person for their update. How much concrete has been removed? Which hospital needs water? Which agency has it and which one has the truck to drive it there? How does one secure 18-gauge needles and who will store them centrally? Gov. George E. Pataki is an active participant in these conversations, officials said, but clearly yields to the mayor.
In between constant phone calls with government and private sector officials, the mayor often visits hospitals and the site of the incident, and is often greeted with applause. He comforts women who have lost their husbands and children. In between, he grabs a slice of pizza, a half a sandwich, a diversion from his usually careful menu that he follows because of his treatments for prostate cancer.
"There is no doubt that Giuliani is the man you want in charge of this situation," said Sgt. Michael Hanrahan, who stood duty Wednesday along Canal Street. He is not always a fan. "Everyone knows we want a raise," he said, "but in this situation, it is like he is the only one who seems to take command."
Yesterday, among heaps of rubble, concrete, twisted metal and strewn papers, a single thing stood upright outside 75 Barclay Street. It was the podium that had been set up on Tuesday, for the mayor to address his city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); POLITICS (66%); RELIGION (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) TERRORISM; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MISSING PERSONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



378 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE REACTION; 
For Many, Sorrow Turns to Anger and Talk of Vengeance

BYLINE:  By BLAINE HARDEN 

DATELINE: DENVER, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
Having donated more blood than victims needed, having wallpapered their towns with flags, and with little choice but to stew over television reruns of terror in their homeland, more than a few Americans are beginning to obsess about how to get even.
 Phil Beckwith, a retired truck driver, announced his modest proposal for avenging the attacks on New York and Washington in the editorial offices of The Ranger, a newspaper that serves Fremont County, Wyo., one of the largest and emptiest counties in the nation. He had gone to the paper to buy a classified advertisement. 
 "I know just what to do with these Arab people," Mr. Beckwith proclaimed on Wednesday to the newspaper staff. "We have to find them, kill them, wrap them in a pigskin and bury them. That way they will never go to heaven. Now, I would like to buy an ad to rent my house." 
In a phone interview today, Mr. Beckwith, 63, a former Navy chief petty officer, said he had spent many angry hours in front of the television before hitting on his plan for striking terrorists in a way that he believed would hurt them the most.
"Bury Osama bin Laden with a pigskin, donate blood for the people in New York and God bless this great country," he said.
Eager to do something, anything, to relieve their frustration, Americans today bought guns and ammunition, inquired about military service, planned patriotic celebrations for the weekend and let their anger run loose in conversation.
"Attempting to parse this situation with the sort of legality you might find during a rape trial is not appropriate here," said Paul D. Danish, a county commissioner in Boulder, Colo. The United States, Mr. Danish said, should order a handful of Arab nations -- including Afghanistan and Iraq -- to hand over responsible parties. "If they do not comply, we should declare war," he said. "My interest is only in seeing them change their behavior or in seeing their destruction."
Serious talk of war, which could be heard today from President Bush in the White House, as well as from young men in rural gun shops, also alarmed many Americans.
"When I heard the president use the war word, I just got sick and my stomach fell down to my feet," Mag Seaman, 75, a retired teacher, said.
Carrying a sign that said "We Are All Members of The Life Form Called Human," Ms. Seaman joined about 100 other people on the steps of the Colorado Capitol today to protest the possibility of military retaliation.
Larry Legman-Miller, the Denver director of the American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker organization, said: "We must resist the urge to demonize and scapegoat -- in our communities and around the world. A violent response will not bring back loved ones, bring justice or increase our safety, and may increase the likelihood of more terrorist acts."
Other members of the spiritual community disagreed.
"I don't like the word, revenge," said Jim Willhoit, 58, pastor of the First Church of Christ in Highland, Ind. "The word, retaliate means much the same thing. But I believe there needs to be some retaliation. But I also believe we need to retaliate to the person who did it."
"Who signed the order, so to speak?" Mr. Willhoit continued. "I talked to a friend yesterday and he said, 'I want to get bin Laden and his parents and his two kids and the people who live down the block.' He said, 'Let's just make glass out of Afghanistan.' I said 'Nah, I don't feel that way.' But I do feel like the person who did this campaign, no question, he's got to pay."
In Ogden, Ill., population 500, similar sentiments were expressed. "If I could get my hands on bin Laden, I'd skin him alive and pour salt on him," said Bruce Cristina, 45, a worker at Ogden Metalworking. "Nothing would be cruel enough."
Mr. Cristina spoke at lunch with three co-workers and his boss at the Pink House Restaurant and Bar. 
"Level the country that's harboring them," he said. "The whole country. Let the world know that we're not going to put up with terrorism of any magnitude. Go in there and do the job. Hit them with whatever we've got."
At Panhandle Gunslingers, a gun shop with a firing range in Amarillo, Tex., photocopied pictures of Osama bin Laden were stacked on a counter next to a hand-lettered sign that said "Free Targets." 
"I'll be honest with you," said Burnie Stokes, the shop's owner. "I see somebody that's Arabic, Pakistani or Indian, I'm looking at him like, 'What the hell do you have under your coat?' Everybody is scaring me to death right now."
So far, at least, the attacks on Tuesday have had "minimal impact" on the number of people volunteering for the armed forces, said Douglas Smith, spokesman for the Army Recruiting Command in Fort Knox, Ky. 
But Mr. Smith said that recruiting stations around the country had received a higher than usual number of calls from veterans who wanted to know if they can do anything.
At an enlistment center in the Aurora Mall in the Denver suburbs, Jason Stuart, 24, was one of the few young people to respond to recent events by trying to join the Army. 
"Everybody was talking about Pearl Harbor, and that made me think of my grandfather," said Mr. Stuart, who is unemployed. "The very day after, he told his family he wanted to go into the military. I couldn't get that out of my mind."
Mr. Stuart said that after watching the attacks on television, he became "filled with rage."
"I thought, 'Somebody's got to pay for this,' " he said, after enlisting. "I felt there had to be something -- I don't know -- something I had to do."
In Riverton, Wyo., the town where Mr. Beckwith made his proposal about Arabs and pigskins this week, most of the town was expected to turn out on Friday night for a homecoming ceremony before the high school football game.
During the national anthem, everyone at the game will be expected to stand and hold up a version of the American flag that was printed in the local newspaper.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A masked man fired 21 shots at Hassan Awdah on Wednesday as Mr. Awdah, a Yemeni American, stood behind a bulletproof-glass window at his gasoline station in Gary, Ind. (Zbigniew Bzdak/The Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); BLOOD DONATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BLOOD BANKS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) ;HARDEN, BLAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); GARY, IN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



379 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: AN ASSESSMENT; 
U.S. Force vs. Terrorists: From Reactive to Active

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
If the terrorist attacks this week, as George W. Bush says, mark the first war of the 21st century, waging that fight will require new military thinking and bolder tactics, allied experts say. 
 For the last decade, the use of American might has been shaped by several principles: emphasizing air power and long-range precision arms, avoiding ground combat whenever possible and using overwhelming ground forces when it is not. 
 The use of American military force has also been reactive. Pre-emptive action was ruled out, partly because American law prohibits assassination as state policy. The United States waited to be hit before striking back, and American casualties were to be avoided at all costs. 
All of those principles were at work when the Clinton administration struck at Osama bin Laden, the architect of the 1998 bombing of the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania and the suspected sponsor of the attacks against the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. 
The United States fired several dozen Tomahawk cruise missiles at his training camps in Afghanistan. There was no risk to American personnel; unfortunately for the Pentagon, there was little risk to the terrorist leadership either. 
That approach is now clearly in the process of being abandoned. The analogy between this week's terrorist attacks and Pearl Harbor is apt in one sense. The attacks have shaken the American public and the Pentagon leadership. Strategies and tactics that seemed unthinkable just weeks ago are thinkable now.
"Forget about the cruise missiles," said Francois Heisbourg, a French military expert and the incoming chairman of the International Institute for Strategic Studies. "The only thing that is worth thinking about now is how to dismantle and eradicate the organization that brought the terrorism about. You can use air power in support of joint military operations. But the coalition that takes on the terrorists has to actually send in people with guns and that means taking high risks."
For the better part of a year Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld has been overseeing one review after another as the Pentagon struggled to define a compelling post-cold-war mission and force structure for the American military. Now the devastating attacks this week have given it a mission: stopping terrorist attacks and eliminating terrorist cells around the world. The Pentagon will likely have most of the resources it wants. Congress seems certain to give the Pentagon the money it wants to update its conventional forces, at the very least.
It is certainly wrong to think that the threat of terrorism can be addressed through military force alone. There is a role for diplomacy in marshaling international pressure against regimes that shelter terrorists. There is also a need for improved security at home. But it seems certain that the Pentagon will develop plans to punish state sponsors of terrorism with air strikes, air and sea embargoes and, in extreme cases, the use of ground troops. 
Punishing terrorist groups in the remote terrain of distant countries like Afghanistan will require rapid military operations to maintain some element of surprise. It may require repeated raids as they move from country to country. 
Conventional bombing of military headquarters and forces -- the strategy the United States employed with considerable success during the Kosovo campaign -- may not work because terrorist cells often have no permanent headquarters or armor and their forces can easily disperse. So taking on the terrorists may mean the use of ground troops supported by air power. 
Because speed may be crucial and infrastructure may be sparse, those ground forces will need to be more mobile than the heavy armor divisions that took months to deploy for the 1991 war with Iraq.
Paratroopers, helicopter assault units and special forces could have a critical role. Their aim would be strike fast and then withdraw, not to seize and hold territory.
Such attacks could well mean casualties. "Forget about avoiding casualties," said John Keegan, the British military historian. "Air power can play its part, but this is not a conventional enemy."
There has been a long-standing assumption at the Pentagon that the American public would not tolerate significant casualties. The Pentagon boasted that it did not lose a single soldier in combat during the Kosovo campaign as if that was as important as the mission of evicting Yugoslav troops from the province. 
The loss of just 18 United States soldiers during an ill-planned operation to capture clansmen in Somalia led the United States to abandon its mission in that East African nation. But the casualties seemed high because the mission seemed to be unclear and perhaps even unnecessary. 
Now that terrorism has reached the American political and economic centers, inhabiting the minds of Americans in a way that is altogether new, the stakes have soared. Terrorism is no longer a foreign policy issue; it is central domestic issue.
With the political stakes so high, the United States may be obliged to seek unconventional partners. Afghanistan is remote from NATO's bases. Access to bases or airfields in Russia, once unthinkable, or Pakistan, problematic because of its relations with the Taliban, could be important if the United States decided to take the fight to the terrorist cells in Afghanistan. 
Military raids might not succeed in capturing a terrorist like Mr. bin Laden. But they would show that there are few sanctuaries and would disrupt his terrorist network, at least for a while. In that sense, the advocates of using force acknowledge that the military option is also a test of wills. 
"The terrorists think democracies are soft," Mr. Keegan said. "And of course they are soft most of the time. But when they get aroused they are far more resolute and harsher than an authoritarian system." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); ASSASSINATION (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) ;GORDON, MICHAEL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); KENYA (79%); FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



380 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: AN UNCERTAIN ALLY; 
U.S. Presses Pakistan to Help Pry a Suspected Terrorist From Afghanistan Haven

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
The terrorist attacks on the United States appear increasingly likely to touch off a moment of reckoning for Pakistan, which has long supported the fundamentalist Taliban militia in Afghanistan, protector of the United States' prime terrorist suspect, Osama bin Laden. 
 For years, the United States has pressured Pakistan, its erstwhile cold war ally, to exert its considerable influence on Afghanistan to turn over Mr. bin Laden for trial in the bombings of the American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, in 1998. 
 But Pakistan, a nuclear weapons power that is itself drifting toward Islamic fundamentalism, never delivered. 
Now, faced with the apparent threat that American power could be turned against it, Pakistan has arrived at a pivotal moment. After a meeting of cabinet ministers and senior military officers on Wednesday night, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, the country's military ruler, went on state-run television at 1 a.m. today to read a statement about the attacks on the United States. 
It was an unusual time for a public appearance, and it suggested that General Musharraf felt an urgency to announce Pakistan's position while it was still afternoon in the United States.
"I want to assure President Bush and the U.S. government of our unstinted cooperation in the fight against terrorism," he said. After the statement, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell spoke by telephone to the Pakistani leader. Their conversation was described as positive by American officials.
Up to now, Pakistan has not provided the cooperation mentioned by General Musharraf. It is one of only three nations that recognize the Taliban as the government of Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are the others.
Young Pakistanis, educated in Muslim religious schools and fired to battle those they perceive to be infidels, have continued going to training camps in Afghanistan where they are trained in the methods of jihad, or holy war, against their enemies. These methods have been applied in Pakistan's proxy war with India in Kashmir, among other places.
Until Tuesday's attack, the United States chafed at what it saw as Pakistan's lack of cooperation on Mr. Bin Laden, but it did not apply the full weight of its disapproval, fearful of destabilizing a nuclear-armed, deeply indebted, economically troubled nation of 150 million people.
But the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon have changed the international politics of terrorism. American officials, who say they are gathering evidence that Mr. bin Laden's followers hijacked the four planes used in the attacks on Tuesday, have run out of patience.
Bush administration officials have made clear they will not be satisfied with condolences and boilerplate offers of help from Pakistan.
First and foremost, officials said, they want access to what they believe is Pakistan's extensive intelligence on Mr. bin Laden's operations in Afghanistan. If the United States strikes Afghanistan militarily, American officials may also ask Pakistan for the right to send missiles over its territory or for other logistical support, like basing military operations on Pakistani soil.
General Musharraf, who named himself president in June, met in Islamabad today for 40 minutes with the new American ambassador to Pakistan, Wendy Chamberlin. When she emerged, Ms. Chamberlin told reporters that the general had emphatically promised to cooperate with the United States, but she offered no details of their discussion.
"The president made a very strong statement that he was with us," she told reporters.
It remains to be seen what Pakistan will actually do. Either way, severe repercussions are likely. 
If Pakistan sides decisively with the Americans against Mr. bin Laden and the Taliban, there will almost certainly be a response from fundamentalist parties and militant groups that can potentially put hundreds of thousands of protesters on the streets.
General Musharraf has in the past backed down in the face of their protests, notably when he sought to change the enforcement of Pakistan's draconian blasphemy law.
But if Pakistan does not provide the assistance the United States now seeks, the consequences could also be very painful.
Some Pakistani editors and scholars say that if there is credible evidence Mr. bin Laden is responsible for the latest terrorist attacks, Pakistan will have little choice but to help the United States. Defiance would risk an economic meltdown and further isolation for a government that took power in a coup almost two years ago. 
"I don't think the Musharraf government is stupid enough to do it," said Rifaat Hussain, a professor of international relations at Quaid-I-Azam University in Islamabad. "Once you've been branded a state that supports terrorism, the consequences are horrific. All economic and financial assistance is cut off. You'll be declared a pariah state. All kinds of sanctions will be declared against you. I don't think that's a situation Pakistan wants to get into."
The United States could lead an effort to block further desperately needed loans from the International Monetary Fund -- and this after General Musharraf had already taken politically difficult steps over the last year to raise taxes and cut subsidies as the I.M.F. required. 
Alternatively, the United States could declare Pakistan a sponsor of terrorism and help make it a pariah state avoided by foreign investors and international donors.
It also appeared clear that the use of force against identified terrorist cells in Pakistan might be contemplated, as a last resort. "Pakistan can be a full partner, or a target, and it doesn't really have a third option," said Barnett R. Rubin, a political scientist at New York University. "There is no more being a friend of the United States and of Osama bin Laden."
In Washington today, Secretary Powell said that the United States was now prepared to go after terrorist networks and "those who have harbored, supported and aided that network," wherever they were found.
The United States could also tilt more decisively toward Pakistan's foe, India, on a range of strategic and economic issues. India has long maintained that Pakistan sponsors terrorist attacks on civilians in Kashmir, a Himalayan territory both nations claim.
Pakistan insists that the Muslims fighting there against the Indian authorities are indigenous freedom fighters. What if the Americans started siding with the Indians in that conflict?
Some Pakistanis see this as a moment when the country could redefine itself.
"Pakistan has to disavow all forms of terrorism, jihad and militancy that cross state boundaries," said Najam Sethi, editor of The Friday Times, a weekly in Lahore. "We have to decide who we are and where we want to stand in the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a televised address yesterday, Pakistan's leader, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, condemned terrorism. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TALIBAN (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); HIJACKING (89%); AIRLINES (83%); AL-QAEDA (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); EVIDENCE (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (68%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) ;BIN LADEN, OSAMA; MUSHARRAF, PERVEZ (GEN); DUGGER, CELIA W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); KASHMIR (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); KENYA (79%); ASIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PAKISTAN; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



381 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Agencies and their clients walk a careful line as they move toward expressing condolences.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
MESSAGES of grief, condolence and support are beginning to emerge from advertisers, agencies and media companies in the aftermath of Tuesday's terrorist attacks. Those involved say they are trying to proceed carefully so as not to be perceived as crossing the line between sincere expressions of concern and shameless exploitation.
 "We wanted to do something that shows support but wasn't commercial," said Jamie Dimon, the chairman and chief executive of the Bank One Corporation in Chicago. "You don't want to be crass." 
 Bank One is running an ad in local and national news, created in-house and with the help of Bates Worldwide in New York, part of the Cordiant Communications Group. The ad carries the headline "Today, the United States is more united than ever." The ad asks for contributions to the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund and says the donations can be brought to Bank One branches.
"The country is more important than the company," Mr. Dimon said, adding: "Everyone wants to do something, even if it's symbolic. It feels right." The ad -- based on an idea sent to Mr. Dimon in an e-mail message by Victor Arocha, a first vice president for Bank One in Dallas -- started appearing yesterday and is to run through Sunday.
Merrill Lynch & Company in New York plans to run an ad in newspapers today or Monday, by its agency, J. Walter Thompson, part of the WPP Group. The ad, in the form of a letter from top Merrill executives, is to discuss the challenges faced by Merrill's employees this week and how the financial markets typically stabilize after difficulties.
"Merrill feels a responsibility as a leader in the market," said Bob Jeffrey, president for Thompson's North American operations in New York, "and it's not the first time they've responded in a time of crisis with a 'big' message."
Other leading marketers that have previously run ads addressing major national events like the Persian Gulf war and the Oklahoma City bombing are discussing with their agencies whether to run ads centered on the attacks in New York and Washington. For the time being, two, Anheuser-Busch and the McDonald's Corporation, are focusing on donations of money and merchandise for relief efforts.
For instance, the proceeds from the coin canisters on the counters of McDonald's restaurants, which are typically donated to the Ronald McDonald House children's charities, "are earmarked for the Red Cross for the next month," said Lisa Howard, a spokeswoman for McDonald's in Oak Brook, Ill. The company also donated $1 million for relief efforts and another $1 million through the Ronald McDonald charities.
And Anheuser-Busch, based in St. Louis, has donated 9,500 cases of canned water to rescue workers in Lower Manhattan along with $1 million to the Red Cross.
"Our advice to our clients is 'See what you can do meaningfully' " along the lines of donations and contributions, said Kevin Roberts, worldwide chief executive at Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, which works for marketers like Procter & Gamble and Toyota Motor.
"And we're also advising them not to take a step back," Mr. Roberts said, in terms of cutting ad budgets, adding: "Talking up a recession aids and abets the enemy. The best thing America can do now is go shopping."
One of the first visible ad efforts involved the Outdoor Advertising Association of America in Washington, the trade organization for billboard, sign and poster companies, which urged members late Tuesday to start displaying on a pro bono basis this message: "In God we trust. United we stand."
"Hundreds if not thousands are up or will be," said Nancy Fletcher, president and chief executive of the association, at sites ranging from Times Square to Greensboro, N.C., to Canada, where the message was modified to read "United with our neighbors. God bless America."
"It's a message of solidarity," Ms. Fletcher said, comparing it to the pro bono signs bearing yellow ribbons that the association's members posted from 1979 to 1981 when Americans were held hostage in Iran.
Because the ad space, production materials and installation costs are all being donated, she added, she was "stunned" when she "had someone call and say, 'Who's going to make money on this?' It is all gratis."
Some advertisers are spending money to take out ads, mostly so far in print, to declare sympathy or solidarity or to request donations of money and blood.
The weekly opinion ad, created in-house, that the Exxon Mobil Corporation runs in magazines and newspapers was devoted yesterday to an offer of "our thoughts and prayers" to victims and families and to "applaud the courage" of those involved in rescue and response activities.
"Every week, the thought is 'We have the space; how can we best use it?' " said Tom Cirigliano, a spokesman for Exxon Mobil in Irving, Tex. "This week, we felt nothing else really mattered than to say it from the heart." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (88%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (88%); FAST FOOD (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CHARITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (73%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (63%); DESERT STORM (60%) ADVERTISING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); MCDONALD'S CORP (82%); JWT (66%); WPP PLC (58%); BATES WORLDWIDE (56%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (56%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); MCD (NYSE) (82%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (82%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (51%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (51%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (75%) ;ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001 



382 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE MEDIA; 
Death, Terror and Business Journalists

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK 

 BODY:
"Sorry if Street Life seems a little weary today, it's just that I'm, well, really getting run down," Andrew Serwer, a financial journalist at Fortune magazine, wrote in his daily e-mail newsletter on Thursday afternoon. "I have lost friends and acquaintances. Who have kids," he wrote on Tuesday, shortly after the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
 Mr. Serwer's missives are usually peppered with upbeat snippets of rock songs and comments from a broad network of traders around Wall Street. Not this week. Like business journalists around New York and the world, Mr. Serwer is struggling to cope with the decimation of the close-knit community of traders and bankers he normally covers. 
 Reporters face the death or disappearance of people they were meeting just last week for breakfast, schmoozing with over the phone or trading jokes with by e-mail. Unlike war correspondents or crime reporters, many young business reporters are happily unaccustomed to working in close proximity to violence and the loss of life. 
"For a while, it was like Russian roulette every time I answered the phone or opened an e-mail," Mr. Serwer said in an interview. Each call might bring more bad news. He is continuing to work, he said, partly hoping that writing about the psychology of the market will be cathartic. But he says he is interrupted by calls to plan a close friend's memorial service or to trade news with other friends. "It is really tiring, too," he said, "because everything is so horrible, and you want to spend the time with people. But there goes another 45 minutes."
As they file reports on Wall Street's struggle to get back on its feet, these reporters, too, are part of the story. The Wall Street headquarters of some news organizations were damaged by the attack or closed in its aftermath. Some editors of The Wall Street Journal fled their offices near the World Trade Center by ferry across the Hudson River to begin preparing the next day's paper. The financial news Web site TheStreet.com evacuated its location across the street from the New York Stock Exchange. James Grant, founder of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, said its staff abandoned its headquarters and failed to publish on schedule for the first time.
"The financial community is so small and close down there, even the journalists are victims in their own story," said David J. Morrow, editor in chief of TheStreet.com. "You are part of your community, and a big part of your community is gone and was killed violently, and all of that is there for the world to see."
Mr. Morrow said staff members of the TheStreet.com were trying to reach one another by phone and by e-mail from disparate sites to continue producing their Web site, but efforts were hampered because many live in lower Manhattan and have been unable to return to their homes.
James J. Cramer, a columnist for TheStreet.com and New York magazine and a commentator on the television network CNBC, perhaps most exemplifies the emotional and logistical challenge. He worked for most of his career as a trader and fund manager on Wall Street, although he started as a newspaper reporter and continued writing as a sideline before retiring from fund management.
On Tuesday, Mr. Cramer said, he managed to catch a boat and then hitchhiked home to Summit, N.J. He later attended an interfaith memorial service in the town's central square. Summit, roughly 15 minutes from the World Trade Center, is home to many people who work on Wall Street, and he lost several business associates who lived within a block of his home. At one of several memorial services, he listened as neighbors called out the names of friends who had escaped, and of some who had not.
"You hear a name and you are thrilled that he made it out of the trade center," Mr. Cramer said. "Then you think: 'What about Meehan? It can't be Meehan. I just recruited him to write for TheStreet .com.' Then you see the floor that was hit and it was his floor." William Meehan, chief market analyst at the trading firm Cantor Fitzgerald, is among thousands still missing.
Mr. Cramer said CNBC wanted him to appear on television Wednesday night to talk about what the attack might mean for the stock market, but he declined so he could attend memorials. "They said, 'We don't want to press you,' " he said. "I said, 'You couldn't press me if you wanted.' " His editors at New York magazine wanted him to write about the experience of hearing his friends' names. He refused. He said his editors at TheStreet.com wanted him to write about which stocks would benefit from aftereffects of the disaster.
"To me that is like what Cal does in 'East of Eden,' he makes a killing on soybeans," Mr. Cramer said. "How could you be so heartless? To turn out really good copy about how General Dynamics works? I'd belong in hell." Still, Mr. Cramer said he was betting that by Monday people would feel differently.
Many reporters, even the ones learning of lost contacts on Wall Street, have turned to their jobs as a chance to do something.
Lawrence Ingrassia, the Wall Street Journal editor in charge of covering the financial markets, said he was busy handling e-mail messages and phone calls from scattered reporters. "This is one of those things where there may be an aftershock to people's psyche," he said, "Most reporters -- most people -- want to contribute now. The biggest thing I have heard is 'How can I help? What can I do? Give me a specific assignment.' " At times, he said, he had more requests than assignments.
Gregory Zuckerman, a Wall Street Journal reporter, missed the bus he had planned to take to a morning meeting at the trade center on Tuesday. He ended up helping to report a story about the destruction at Cantor Fitzgerald, where he knows several employees. "In some ways it is easier because it keeps you busy instead of just getting sad and depressed," he said, "but in some ways it is hard because talking to me is the last thing their families want to do."
E. S. Browning, another Wall Street Journal reporter, said it felt unseemly for surviving journalists to complain about their losses as they went about their work. "There are some people I can't call because I can't reach them -- there were one or two people I tried to call and found they were missing," he said. "Yeah, it is hard, but I think the emotional difficulties pale by comparison with what other people are facing and aren't even worth mentioning. I had a difficult day, but nothing compared to what other people had."
As journalists began preparing for the expected reopening of the stock market on Monday, many reports are focusing on the fears that the enormous physical, financial and psychological losses will pull the sluggish economy into a full-fledged recession and drag the slumping stock market down as well. 
So far, however, some journalists appear to be doing their best to stave off the urge to sell. Mr. Serwer, in the Fortune Street Life newsletter, quoted Neil Hokanson, a fund manager, as saying: "There is no greater message of strength, solidarity and resolve we can send both terrorists and the world than to reflect those values in stable or higher financial markets when they reopen." An anonymous investor added, "I'm telling friends to buy stock as a patriotic symbol." 
As Mr. Cramer put it, "I can combine genuine wisdom with anti-terrorism: panic selling never made anybody any money."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After the attacks on the World Trade Center, editors and writers for The Wall Street Journal had to move from their offices in lower Manhattan to Dow Jones headquarters in South Brunswick, N.J. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); WEB SITES (65%); AIRLINES (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); POP & ROCK (56%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); THESTREET INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ;WALL STREET JOURNAL; THESTREET.COM; GRANT'S INTEREST RATE OBSERVER 

TICKER: TST (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: ;GRANT, JAMES; KIRKPATRICK, DAVID D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



383 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: The Working Life of Two Towers 

BYLINE:  By Richard C. Leone; Richard C. Leone is president of The Century Foundation.

 BODY:
Death and destruction on the scale of what happened on Tuesday would be real and terrible wherever it occurred. But the terrorists also were seeking to strike at a symbol of America. Like other parts of their plan, the choice of the World Trade Center was well thought out. 
 Symbols like the trade center matter. New York's skyscrapers, for example, defy past notions about cities. They insist that America is different. The city itself sends the same sort of message. Look at us, it says, we are realizing a democracy with more diversity than anything the Old World thought possible or even imaginable. We are full of energy and risk. We dare to construct buildings and live lives that are far beyond the ordinary. 
 More than 20 years ago, I headed The New York Mercantile Exchange, located in the World Trade Center. It was a wild place of manic traders and high-risk finance. People behaved just like out-of-towners imagine New Yorkers behave: rough and ready for anything and likely to be successful at it. Up against tough competition from the much larger Chicago exchange, how we celebrated when our oil futures market turned out to be the one that actually worked! We were probably far from ideal tenants. But the Port Authority, which built and owned the World Trade Center, tolerated our outbursts and outrageous demands in part because they thought keeping the exchange in New York was good for the city.
Later, in the 1990's, as chairman of the Port Authority, I supported selling the twin towers if the price was right. I even joined the chorus beating up on the lavishness of the Port Authority's headquarters in One World Trade Center. Yet when the bomb went off in 1993, just about everybody was glad that we hadn't made the sale. Only a first-rate public agency with a great staff could have tackled all the problems involved in restoring the buildings and dealing with the challenges downtown. More than a thousand people labored around the clock to reopen the buildings in 30 days. How proud we were, for example, of a program to provide financial assistance to the small businesses in the neighborhood that had been hurt by the closure of the towers.
Now, with hundreds of Port Authority employees and perhaps thousands of tenants missing, all those efforts seem small. But at the time, we were determined to show the terrorists that they failed. No doubt overcoming that disaster will be remembered only as an incident during a simpler time in America. 
Today, the task is infinitely more difficult: to increase our security without compromising our civil liberties; to rebuild downtown Manhattan without turning it into a fortress; and, most of all, to find the heart to go forward with our dreams and ambition intact. How will it work out? I'm not worried, although it may take years of effort for the outcome to be clear. But the city's primacy will endure -- because New Yorkers are relentless, striving and always pushing the boundaries of the possible. 
Someday, where the trade center stood, there will be some kind of a plaque or park. But that won't be the true memorial to those who built the place or to those who worked and died there. It will be in whatever we build and do to keep the city and country great. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); HIJACKING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); FUTURES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%) TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; CENTURY FOUNDATION 

PERSON: LEONE, RICHARD C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



384 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Slump at Factories Continues, With Output Declining 0.8% 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Industrial production fell for the 11th consecutive month in August, a 0.8 percent drop that dashed hopes the nation's beleaguered manufacturing sector was on the verge of a rebound.
 Optimism that the country would be able to mount a sustained recovery in the second half of this year had already been dealt a severe blow by Tuesday's terrorist bombings. 
 In other government economic reports today, retail sales rose a moderate 0.3 percent despite the fact that auto sales dropped in August. And wholesale prices climbed 0.4 percent as the cost of gasoline and other energy products posted sharp increases. 
The 0.8 percent drop in industrial production brought the string of declines to 11, the longest stretch of weakness since an 11-month fall from February through December 1960.
Manufacturing has been the hardest hit part of the economy in the slowdown that has lasted more than a year. In that time, manufacturing employment has dropped by more than one million workers.
The nation has skirted recession because consumers, despite rising joblessness, have continued to buy homes, cars and other big-ticket items. Analysts, however, are now worried that the terrorist attacks could cause consumers to stop spending, knocking the one remaining prop out from under the economy and pushing the country into recession. The Bush administration and the Federal Reserve have been working to keep that from occurring with a series of moves intended to bolster confidence.
The drop in industrial production followed a 0.1 percent decline in July and was the largest since a 1 percent falloff in June. Over all, industrial production is nearly 5 percent below its level a year ago.
For August, the weakness was led by sizable decreases in production of autos and auto products and various consumer goods. Information processing equipment, a category that includes computers, was down 0.5 percent in August after an even larger 1.6 percent drop in July.
The Federal Reserve said the declines in production left the nation's industry operating at just 76.2 percent of capacity in August, its lowest level of operation since July 1983, when the country was struggling to emerge from the worst recession of the post-World War II period.
The 0.4 percent rise in the Labor Department's Producer Price Index, which measures inflation pressures before they reach consumers, followed a large 0.9 percent drop in July.
While the overall price increase was worse than analysts had been expecting, the core rate -- which excludes the volatile energy and food sectors -- fell by 0.1 percent last month. That was the first drop since February, reflecting a record decline in computer prices.
The 0.3 percent rise in retail sales followed a 0.2 percent advance in July. The growth in sales last month was led by a 1.4 percent increase in sales at gasoline stations, a jump that in large part reflected higher pump prices. Sales at department stores rose by 0.4 percent while sales at restaurants and bars rose an even larger 1.2 percent. Those increases were offset somewhat by a drop of 0.2 percent in sales of autos.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Producer Prices"Index of finished goods prices, 1982 = 100, seasonally adjusted. (March 2000-August 2001) Monthly ChangeAug.: +0.4%July: -0.9June: -0.4(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart: "Retail Sales"Total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (March 2000-August 2001) Monthly ChangeAug.: +0.3%July: +0.2June: Unch.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Industrial Production"Index of total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. (March 2000-August 2001) Monthly ChangeAug.: -0.8%July: -0.1June: -1.0(Source: Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RECESSION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); RETAILERS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); GASOLINE (76%); GAS STATIONS (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); INFLATION (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



385 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Bogota Journal; 
Conflict Rages, but Capital Basks in Good Times

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Thirty-seven years of conflict has left Colombia with two million displaced villagers. In some cities, urban warfare rages between rebels and right-wing militia members. Farms lie fallow. The economy suffers. 
 But not in Bogota, the fog-shrouded capital 8,000 feet atop the Andes. In this city of seven million, many Bogotanos agree, things have never been better. 
 A drop in crime has left the city not only statistically safer than Caracas and Rio de Janeiro, but also more secure than Washington and Baltimore. The economy, although sluggish, is considered Colombia's sole reliable engine for creating jobs. The city's credit rating by Duff & Phelps rose, to AA+ last year from A in 1994.
More visibly, a three-year multibillion capital improvement program has changed the landscape, refurbishing 877 parks, paving 117 miles of roads, introducing sewage treatment to 415 neighborhoods and building 22 schools and 21 libraries. The symbol of the city's transformation has been its new Transmilenio bus system, which uses specially constructed bus lanes and subwaylike platforms.
"Incredible, but now this city has possibilities," Edgar Saenz, 30, a designer, said, waiting for a bus. "We can walk downtown without fear, in a pleasant urban landscape. I think the capital is an example for the whole country."
In the early 1990's, Bogota was a basket case. Traffic made short trips grueling. Crime was increasing out of control. Refugees were streaming in. Development was hamstrung by corruption.
Then an unexpected renewal began. Much of the credit, residents and experts on the city say, goes to Enrique Penalosa, a student of urban development who served as mayor from 1998 until January. Many Bogotanos, used to the city's "despelote," Colombia's controlled chaos, called the effort quixotic.
"This was a city people had spent years hating," Mr. Penalosa said this summer from New York, where he is on a fellowship at New York University. "They talked badly of it and said it would never get better. But now there is a big change. People feel proud of their city. They believe it can get better."
The transformation is being watched by other Latin American cities suffering pollution, congestion and crime.
Behind the changes lies a simple premise familiar to New Yorkers. Can-do mayors take office proposing improvements that residents of more livable cities take for granted: that traffic can be controlled, that mass transit can work and that crime can drop.
Mayor Antanus Mockus, a son of Lithuanian immigrants who preceded and succeeded Mr. Penalosa as mayor, began changing the stubborn, me-first mentality here. A seat belt law took effect. He unclogged roads, banned parking on sidewalks and initiated antilitter campaigns.
Mr. Mockus, a former professor known for his zany antics and Abe Lincoln beard, did away with the corrupt transit police force and raised money by selling off the city's once inefficient energy company.
The progress has not eliminated some serious problems. The crime rate, although far lower than in the mid-90's, remains a persistent threat. A housing shortage is becoming more acute with the annual arrival of 160,000 new inhabitants, many of them displaced by the grinding civil conflict here.
Bogotanos, much like New Yorkers, know that the relative calm can be shattered by terrorist attacks. Indeed, the State Department continues to warn Americans against traveling here, a designation that rankles local officials. 
The quality of life here began to change with Mr. Mockus. Cars were restricted in peak hours, to cut down on pollution and traffic. Bars were closed at 1 a.m., to keep drunken drivers off roads. Gun control became a mission.
Then came Mr. Penalosa with his big projects. About 70 miles of bicycle routes were built through parks and along sidewalks. Then came the bus system intended to replace the wheezing, aging clunkers that made driving a nightmare. 
The national police force also modernized its operations. Homicides dropped to 2,238 last year from 4,396 in 1993, leaving Bogota with 35 homicides per 100,0000 people, a rate lower than that of some American cities, but still far higher than New York's, which is a larger city but recorded 673 killings in 2000.
Mr. Penalosa, on the other hand, focused much of his attention on the poorer neighborhoods, having schools built and water and sewer lines installed.
"Penalosa understood that modern cities need to make up for the precarious situation in some areas, to make available access to public services of high quality," said Juan Carlos del Castillo, a professor of urbanism at the National University here. "What this means is that Bogota has advanced, while the rest of the cities have not."
Through the changes, Bogota has maintained its charms, the whispers of its tumultuous past evident in neighborhoods like the colonial Candelaria and in the tightly packed downtown, with its worn but elegant buildings. It sits in a haunting, startling setting, on top of an emerald savannah and flanked by dark, craggy mountains.
It is a city with neighborhoods of stately brick Tudor houses, odd to outsiders, but apt for residents who know the climate here is more like London's than Miami's.
Yet on a summer walk through neighborhoods in the marginalized southern part of the city, residents said the investment had improved their lives.
Heberto Acero, 58, a security guard, said his neighborhood was electrified and had telephone service and drinkable water. "When I came here," he said, "we had to buy our water from tanker trucks that came through every four days."

GRAPHIC: Photos: While much of Colombia is economically crippled, the capital is booming after a three-year improvement program. The new Transmilenio bus system uses special lanes and platforms like those above. (Stephen Ferry/Liaison, for The New York Times); Mayor Antanus Mockus has changed a me-first mentality. (Associated Press) Map of Columbia highlighting Bogota.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (87%); MAYORS (86%); IMMIGRATION (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); REFUGEES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); POLICE FORCES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (65%); AUTOMOTIVE RESTRAINT REGULATIONS (50%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: FORERO, JUAN; MOCKUS, ANTANUS (MAYOR); PENALOSA, ENRIQUE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (91%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) COLOMBIA

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



386 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 853 words

PERSON: Irving S. Shapiro 

HEADLINE: Irving S. Shapiro, 85, Lawyer And Ex-Chairman of DuPont 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Irving S. Shapiro, a former chairman of the DuPont Company who evolved into corporate America's lead liaison to Washington in the 1970's, died on Thursday. He was 85.
 "He was in many respects the first DuPont 'public' chief executive," said Chad Holliday, the current chairman of DuPont. "He was equally at home in the boardroom, the court room, diplomatic conferences, halls of government, even television talk shows." 
 As a lawyer trained in litigation -- he graduated from the University of Minnesota with a bachelor's of law degree in 1941 -- Mr. Shapiro's comfort with verbal expression was well honed. In 1943, after an 18-month stint in the Office of Price Administration in Washington, Mr. Shapiro joined the Justice Department. Through the Roosevelt and Truman administrations, he appeared often before appellate courts and was admitted to practice before the United States Supreme Court in 1944. Well before turning 30, he had already earned a reputation as a powerful arguer.
Not surprisingly, after he joined DuPont in 1951 as a lawyer, antitrust litigation was his forte. Mr. Shapiro's path upward through the company, based in Wilmington, Del., was studded with high-profile legal landmarks. For example, Mr. Shapiro represented DuPont in an antitrust case that, in 1962, culminated in DuPont's relinquishing its 37 percent stake in General Motors. 
Mr. Shapiro rose steadily through DuPont's ranks until he was named chairman and chief executive in 1974 -- to this day the only lawyer to hold that title at DuPont. 
A business career might have seemed a strange choice for Mr. Shapiro, who had little formal education in business or science. But Mr. Shapiro often said he developed a deep-seated understanding of business -- and a flair for dealing with customers -- from his father, a Lithuanian immigrant who ran a dry-cleaning business in Minneapolis. "You might know all the law in the world, but not be able to understand the customer," he told a reporter in 1994.
Mr. Shapiro took charge of DuPont during trying times. It was the year of the first energy crisis, and the costs of raw materials and fuel soared for DuPont, a petrochemical maker, as the economy was plunging into recession. 
Mr. Shapiro quickly doffed his lawyer hat and donned that of the business strategist. He pulled DuPont out of numerous unprofitable businesses and pumped money into the ones that remained. At his insistence, DuPont, which had a longstanding aversion to debt, borrowed millions of dollars to develop new chemicals and plastics and build the plants to make them. He quickly set up DuPont's first energy department. It simultaneously instituted energy conservation programs and set up partnerships with oil companies and other manufacturers to develop synthetic substitutes for oil and gas even as they hunted for more of both. 
He also eliminated chunks of DuPont's bureaucracy, cutting paper-pushing jobs in management and letting each DuPont business participate directly in the corporate planning process. And he instituted weekly meetings with the vice presidents whose jobs survived the cuts, creating an internal brain trust that he modeled after the president's cabinet. Many of the management and business models he instituted remain at DuPont. 
But Mr. Shapiro saw his role as more than just shepherding DuPont. Antibusiness sentiment in the United States, rampant during the 1960's, was running high in the 70's. From the first, Mr. Shapiro spent 40 percent of his time as an outspoken advocate of corporate America. 
He gave frequent speeches and interviews with the media and testified often before Congressional committees, always driving home the point that too much regulation was hampering America's ability to compete with Europe and Japan and that government and big business must be partners, not adversaries. 
It was a time when numerous products -- DuPont's Freon among them -- were being implicated in depletion of the earth's ozone layer, while many others were labeled carcinogens. New regulations and restrictions abounded, many of which Mr. Shapiro saw as stemming from hysteria, not science. He often blamed what he called the "inability to reach common-sense agreement upon limits" for the "needless banning of useful products."
In 1976, Mr. Shapiro was elected chairman of the Business Roundtable, a group of well-known chief executives often called upon for advice from Washington. He made regulatory reform a cornerstone of his two-year tenure. Mr. Shapiro also became one of President Jimmy Carter's personal advisers, and was deeply involved in devising the legislative and political response to the 1977 boycott that some Arab countries placed on companies doing business with Israel. 
When Mr. Shapiro retired from DuPont in 1981, he brushed off his law degree and became a partner of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, working out of the firm's Wilmington office. He was still counsel to the firm when he died.
Mr. Shapiro is survived by his wife, Charlotte, of Greenville, Del.; a son, Stuart, of New York City; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Rockland, Del.; and four grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Irving S. Shapiro 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LAWYERS (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); ADMISSION TO PRACTICE LAW (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (75%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); NEW CHEMICALS (68%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (65%); PETROCHEMICALS (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (60%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (56%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%) DUPONT CO 

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (94%); DD (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

CHARLES O HOLLIDAY JR (58%) SHAPIRO, IRVING S; DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Law 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



387 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE MARKETS; 
Nervous Traders Push European Shares Sharply Lower

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Europe's leading stock markets dropped sharply today amid uncertainty about the reopening of United States markets on Monday and the effect of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
 "We expect Monday's opening to be absolutely chaotic," said David Morrison, a senior trader with Financial Spreads, a financial betting company that is forecasting that the Dow Jones industrial average could fall 500 points, to about 9,100, on Monday. That figure is 200 points lower than was being forecast by the firm on Thursday, suggesting that European investors see little prospect of anything but a rocky ride in New York on Monday. 
 But that uncertainty was only one of the factors that persuaded traders in London, Paris, Frankfurt and elsewhere to sell stocks and look for relative safety in government bonds in the United States and Europe. 
Even before the attacks on Tuesday, European stock markets had been sliding in tandem with United States gauges. Throughout the week, shares seesawed in generally busy trading. But in the sell-off today, which came largely in the afternoon, Germany's benchmark DAX slumped 6.3 percent, compounding losses since Monday, bringing the weekly loss to nearly 12 percent.
The CAC 40 in France dropped 5 percent, for a decline of 11 percent since Monday. In London, the Financial Times Stock Exchange index of 100 leading shares, which had rallied earlier, closed down 3.8 percent, for a loss of 5.5 percent since Monday. For most of the indexes, the weekly losses were the steepest since October 1998.
"There's a lot of risk around what's going to happen on Monday," one analyst said.
One exchange will not open its trading floor on Monday. The American Stock Exchange, a few hundred feet from the World Trade Center site, will resume operations on two rival exchanges. The Amex's exchange-traded funds will trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Amex stocks will also trade on the Big Board. Amex options will trade at the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. The exchange may reopen later next week.
Underlying the decline in stocks in Europe is a broad sentiment among some economists that the attack delivered a final blow to any hope that the American economy would avoid recession, meaning that European economies would lose their last hope of an upturn from the United States. "Global growth estimates will have to be cut further," Deutsche Bank said in a note to analysts.
Those concerns also sent the dollar to a six-month low against the euro and the yen. The euro traded at 91.94 cents in late European trading, up from 90.75 cents on Thursday. In late trading in New York, the euro traded at 92.16 cents, up from 91.16 cents. The dollar traded at 117.48 yen in Europe, down from 119.20 on Thursday. It traded at 117.29 yen in New York, down from 118.79 on Thursday.
Analysts speculated that the Federal Reserve might lower interest rates again to bolster the economy. "The Fed will act sooner rather than later," said Jeremy Baldwin of First State Investments, arguing that a rate cut would avoid a "cataclysm."
Some investors, however, fear that heightened tensions over the weekend while markets are closed could further damage their investments. 
"This sell-off is because no one wants to hold stocks over the weekend," said a fund manager who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The sense of unpredictability deepened today with reports that Islamic leaders had urged their followers to unite against the West, said Mr. Morrison at Financial Spreads.
Investors retreated to the traditional safety of government bonds, pushing yields sharply lower. In New York, yields on two-year Treasury notes remained below 3 percent, the lowest since the security was first issued in the 1970's, slumping to 2.86 percent from 2.98 percent on Thursday. Its price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 7/32, to 101 14/32. The yield on the 10-year note fell to 4.55 percent from 4.64 percent. Its price rose 21/32, to 103 17/32. The yield on the 30-year bond fell to 5.36 percent from 5.39 percent. Its price rose 17/32, to 100 9/32.
Within those outlines, some businesses looked especially vulnerable to the turmoil. British Airways, for instance, again canceled trans-Atlantic flights as U.S. airports remained closed to foreign carriers. British Airways relies on premium fares on long-haul flights for much of its profit. Its shares fell 15.8 percent today. 
Similarly, shares of luxury goods businesses, which depend partly on buoyant growth and feel-good spending, were also punished today. Shares in LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton of France, the biggest luxury goods company, fell 9 percent in the pre-weekend sell-off.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Gauging the World Markets"Change in international country indexes of daily market performance for the past week and the percent change from Monday. Graphs track indexes from Monday-Friday in the following countries:BRAZILBRITAINGERMANYJAPANHONG KONG(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); EURO (83%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; CURRENCY; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (67%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) ;FINANCIAL SPREADS (CO); EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: ;COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); EUROPE; EUROPE; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



388 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE SCHOOLS; 
Stuyvesant High Students To Attend Brooklyn Tech

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
With parents wondering where students displaced by this week's terror attack would end up, Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy announced yesterday that Stuyvesant High School's 3,000 students would move across the river to Brooklyn Technical High School and that several thousand other students would be dispersed to schools around Manhattan.
 The Stuyvesant students will share space in Fort Greene with 4,700 other teenagers and probably attend classes in shifts until their own building just blocks from the World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan can be reopened. 
 Mr. Levy also outlined relocation plans for several elementary and middle schools shut down by the collapse of the twin towers, including Public School 234 in TriBeCa and P.S. 89 in Battery Park City. The 800 children from P.S. 234 will move into P.S. 41 in Greenwich Village, and the 300 students from P.S. 89 will move to P.S. 3, also in the Village. 
All of the displaced students will return to class on Thursday, school officials said, because teachers need Monday for planning and all schools will be closed Tuesday and Wednesday for Rosh Hashana. Some of the shuttered schools are indefinitely off limits because they might be structurally unsound from the blast; at least one, Stuyvesant, is being used for the rescue effort.
Parents, many of them unable to return to their homes since the disaster struck, reacted to the hastily concocted plans with both relief and trepidation. Although they desperately wanted their children to return to school and re-establish their routines, several expressed concern yesterday that makeshift settings would be crowded and that the upheaval would only heighten the students' stress.
Stuyvesant, one of New York City's star public high schools, occupies a complex outfitted with sophisticated science and computer labs that are the pride of its students and parents. Brooklyn Tech, which is also geared toward science and is considered a rival, is also a top-rated school. But parents at both schools wondered yesterday whether the likely split shifts -- Brooklyn Tech students are to report to school at 7 a.m. on Thursday, Stuyvesant students at 11 -- would put their children at an academic disadvantage, particularly those worried about entering competitive colleges.
Gordy Thompson, a co-chairman of Brooklyn Tech's parent association, worried that his son Andrew might not be able to continue all eight of his classes if his school day ended in the early afternoon. "I am concerned, as any parent would be, about the loss of quality of education," Mr. Thompson said, referring to the possibility that classes might be shortened or even eliminated. "But this solution may well prove to have the least impact on the fewest students."
The other affected secondary schools, both just south of the World Trade Center, are the High School for Leadership and Public Service, whose students are to share space in Fashion Industries High School on West 24th Street, and the High School of Economics and Finance, whose students are to report to Norman Thomas High School on East 33rd Street. Leadership students are to report at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday, Economics students at 1 p.m.
For the displaced elementary school students, the preliminary plan is to keep classmates together but perhaps to double up classes, several parent association members said. The Board of Education is making arrangements for the students to get new textbooks and supplies, since they cannot return to their schools and retrieve their belongings, , said Catie Marshall, a board spokeswoman.
Students at a third elementary school, P.S. 150 in TriBeCa, are also to share space in P.S. 3, on Hudson Street. And students at Intermediate School 89, a middle school in TriBeCa, will be moved to I.S. 70, on West 17th Street. All displaced elementary and middle school students are to report to their temporary schools at 8:40 a.m. on Thursday.
Kevin Fisher, whose daughter is in first grade at P.S. 234, said that he was happy that his daughter would reunite with her friends and teacher but worried that the atmosphere would be more chaotic than comforting.
"It kind of prolongs the trauma," Mr. Fisher said. "The classrooms hadn't been that personalized after only a week of classes, but they were little homes. We want our school back."
With rescue and cleanup operations still in an early stage yesterday, nobody could predict how long the Lower Manhattan schools would be out of commission. But some parents predicted that even a temporary school assignment, no matter how unfamiliar, would help their children put the events of this week behind them.
"It's a place to take my son and let him see his friends and get him back to a routine," said Cathy Claman, a parent at P.S. 89. "It's a place to start." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TERRORISM (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); MISSING PERSONS (61%); ROSH HASHANAH (52%) TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; LEVY, HAROLD O (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



389 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Stocks Plunge in Europe Amid Uncertainty in U.S.
Europe's leading stock markets dropped sharply amid uncertainty about the reopening of United States markets on Monday and the effect of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
 In the United States, bond yields fell as investors retreated to the traditional safety of government securities and the dollar dropped against the euro and the yen. Page C4. 

Congress Considers Airline Bailout
Congress was considering a $15 billion bailout of the airline industry as executives, industry analysts and consultants warned that losses stemming from the attacks presented the real possibility that some of the largest carriers will be forced into bankruptcy. A1.

A Reassuring Voice in the Chaos
In normal times on Wall Street, brass-knuckled deals and stiletto insults are vastly more common than hugs and tears. And by all accounts, Howard W. Lutnick, the chairman and chief executive of Cantor Fitzgerald, fit that world perfectly, cutting corners and grabbing profits with the best of them. But in the new world that dawned Tuesday morning, those rough edges are forgotten and Mr. Lutnick is emerging as an icon of the kind of leadership that is helping to get the nation's markets back on their feet. Section A.

Cargo Ban May Cause Disruption
One of the new security measures imposed by the Federal Aviation Administration after the attack -- banning cargo from passenger planes -- threatens to severely disrupt the electronics industry and other businesses for weeks to come, according to shipping agents, exporters and airlines. Section A.

Businesses Offer Counseling
With thousands of Wall Street workers and others unaccounted for, companies across New York and around the nation are trying to help surviving employees and family members of the missing cope. Section A.

Journalists Struggle With Losses
Business journalists around New York and the world are struggling to cope with the decimation of the close-knit community of traders and bankers they normally cover. C5.

I.R.S. Offers Extensions on Taxes
Individuals, businesses and nonprofit organizations affected by the attacks will be given as long as 10 months to file their tax returns and pay their taxes, the I.R.S. said. C6.

Morton's Expects Quarterly Loss
The Morton's Restaurant Group said that it expected to report a third-quarter loss and closed its Wall Street-area restaurant indefinitely in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks. Morton's said its restaurant at 90 West Street in New York was damaged in the attack. All of the company's employees are safe. C2.

Industrial Production Falls Again
Industrial production fell for the 11th consecutive month in August, a 0.8 percent drop that dashed hopes the nation's manufacturing sector was on the verge of a rebound. In other government economic reports, retail sales rose a moderate 0.3 percent despite the fact that auto sales dropped in August. And producer prices at the finished level climbed 0.4 percent as the cost of gasoline and other energy products posted sharp increases. C2.

Lauder Wins Arbitration Ruling
In one of post-Communist Europe's most avidly watched business disputes, Ronald S. Lauder, the New York cosmetics heir, won an arbitration ruling against the Czech government for failing to protect Mr. Lauder's company, Central European Media Enterprises, from being squeezed out of TV Nova, the Czech Republic's most popular television station. An international arbitration panel ordered the government to pay Mr. Lauder's company, known as CME, "the fair market value" of the TV channel, an amount that CME put at $500 million to $550 million. C2.

Head of Alex. Brown Steps Down
Deutsche Bank, Europe's largest bank, said Mayo Shattuck III had stepped down as head of its United States securities unit, Alex. Brown Inc. Mr. Shattuck's duties will be taken over by Tom Hughes, the recently named chief executive of PCAM North America, Deutsche Bank's private-banking and asset-management unit in the United States. C2.

Weyerhaeuser Extends Bid for Rival
Weyerhaeuser extended its offer to buy shares in its timber rival Willamette for the sixth time, even as Weyerhaeuser appeared to be losing ground in its hostile takeover bid. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph: "TODAY" shows producer prices from March-August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); RESTAURANTS (84%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); BONDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (76%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (75%); ELECTRONICS (74%); BOND MARKETS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (72%); EURO (71%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%); RETAIL SALES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MORTON'S RESTAURANT GROUP INC (63%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (63%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



390 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE CARGO TRADE; 
Ban on Airliners' Freight Has Businesses Scrambling

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER with RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
One of the new security measures imposed by the Federal Aviation Administration in the wake of Tuesday's terrorist attacks -- banning cargo from passenger planes -- threatens to severely disrupt the electronics industry and other businesses for weeks to come, according to shipping agents, exporters and airlines.
 Most air freight within the United States is carried on cargo-only freighters, but about half the goods moving by air across the Pacific are shipped on planes shared with passengers. Much of that traffic is in electronic products and components -- microchips headed from the United States to assembly plants in Taiwan, China and elsewhere, and completed computers, digital assistants, phones and other products making the return trip. All of it has been grounded since Tuesday, in an industry where a cost-saving strategy of just-in-time delivery of products and parts is common. 
 The F.A.A. gave clearance today for some international carriers to resume flying to the United States, and service is gradually being restored. But the shocks to the world's air-cargo trade have only begun to be felt, according to industry experts in Asia and the United States.
The F.A.A.'s order has sent American companies scrambling to book space for their shipments on all-cargo jets, particularly those flying routes to Asia, and airlines specializing in cargo are seeing a sudden boom in business at a time when they had been suffering from overcapacity. But the order has added to the woes of many passenger airlines, especially Asian carriers, which tend to depend heavily on cargo revenue from mixed passenger-cargo flights. 
"If this is a long-term thing, it will have major implications for our cargo business across the Pacific," said Antony Tyler, director of corporate development at Cathay Pacific Airways in Hong Kong. Mr. Tyler said Cathay Pacific, which has four passenger flights a day to the United States, had been told by F.A.A. officials that cargo would not be permitted on passenger flights for the foreseeable future. 
The Hong Kong Freight Forwarding Association estimates that 55 percent of the air cargo leaving the territory is carried on passenger planes. For now, at least, that merchandise is piling up in warehouses.
United States companies that use passenger jets to ferry goods to and from Asia are hurrying to find alternatives. Advanced Micro Devices, the semiconductor manufacturer based in Sunnyvale, Calif., said it normally moves substantial quantities of its products to customers and its own plants in Asia using passenger jets. 
It is too early to calculate the cost to the company of the disruption in air shipments, but John Greenagel, a spokesman, said it would mean higher cargo costs and slower delivery times. "We'll be competing for limited capacity with other people who find themselves in the same boat," he said. A.M.D. ships wafers from plants in Austin, Tex.; Germany; and Japan to assembly and test sites in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and China.
The restrictions have rippled through the computer industry, which does much of its manufacturing in Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore. After flights were suspended Tuesday, computer makers began filling warehouses with notebook computers and other products bound for the United States. If they cannot begin moving goods again in the next few days, production lines will have to be halted, some executives said.
"I have a lot of chips scheduled to come from the United States," said Horace Tsiang, the president of First International Computer, a notebook maker in Taiwan. "If they don't come soon, I'm in trouble."
The Dell Computer Corporation has not been able to ship computers from Taiwan since Wednesday, according to a Dell executive. The company has 7 to 10 days' worth of inventory in the United States; after that, shortages loom if shipments are not resumed.
The F.A.A. has not said whether the restrictions will be temporary or permanent, but the longer they last, the more severe the financial pressures on some airlines will become. EVA Airways of Taiwan, one of the main carriers for the computer industry, said it had had to cancel most of its 31 weekly flights to the United States. EVA gets two-fifths of its revenue from cargo. "This will have a major impact on EVA," said Daniel Wu, the airline's president, "but that's less important than the impact on the overall economy."
Northwest Airlines, which expects to resume full scheduled cargo operations on Saturday, will send its fleet of a dozen 747 all-cargo jets that fly between the United States and Asia into the air filled to capacity, said Doug Killian, a spokesman. But the extra profits from the booked-solid freighters will not be enough completely to replace the lost earnings from the empty cargo holds on the airline's passenger jets, he said.
Business is also surging at Atlas Air, an international all-cargo airline based in Purchase, N.Y. "Everyone is scrambling to get back on track," said a company spokeswoman, Rachel Berry, who said it was too early to estimate the increase in business. Atlas resumed operations today.
After relying solely on trucks for three days while its planes were grounded, the FedEx Corporation resumed air service in the United States and internationally this afternoon, with about two-thirds of its fleet of all-cargo aircraft getting into the air within a few hours. Page C1. 
Over all, the government estimates that about half of all international air cargo is carried by passenger jets, compared with about one-fifth of domestic air cargo, according to Stephen Alterman, president of the Cargo Airline Association.
At the Hong Kong International Airport, one of Asia's busiest hubs, grounded planes are parked 10 deep on the tarmac. On a normal day, the airport processes 700 tons of cargo bound for the United States and Canada. More than 400 tons of goods -- some of it perishable -- sat in Hong Kong's vast cargo terminal today , and thousands of tons more filled warehouses throughout the territory. With their own facilities overflowing with crates and boxes, some shipping companies had to rent temporary room elsewhere.
"Space is getting tighter and tighter," said Alice Lau, director of the Association of Freight Forwarding Agents.
Ross Allen, Asian operations director for DHL International, said: "We don't know whether the measures are temporary. There's been nothing like this in my experience." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (92%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); FREIGHT BROKERS & FORWARDERS (78%); FERRIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); SEMICONDUCTORS (75%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%) TERRORISM; FREIGHT FORWARDING; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; ELECTRONICS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (73%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ;FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 

TICKER: 0293 (HKSE) (73%); AMD (NYSE) (51%); AMD (FRA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (73%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (73%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; OPPEL, RICHARD A JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



391 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Journal; 
The Day Before Tuesday

BYLINE:  By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
Being human, you first think of those you love. Then, if you are lucky enough to find them safe, you grieve for those who are lost -- their faces still smiling out expectantly from downtown's new quilt of mass death, the vast patchwork of fliers headlined MISSING.
 Then you grieve for the city whose once indelible profile was mutilated, just like that, on one beautiful September morning. 
 After that you think of your country, and another kind of shock sets in. Something has been lost there too, but not all of what's gone may be a cause for mourning. 
We live in a different America today than we did only the day before Tuesday. Yes, as it's incanted hourly, we have lost our untroubled freedom of movement that we consider a birthright. We have lost our illusion of impregnability. But beneath those visceral imperatives an entire culture has been transformed. This week's nightmare, it's now clear, has awakened us from a frivolous if not decadent decadelong dream, even as it dumps us into an uncertain future we had never bargained for.
The dream was simple -- that we could have it all without having to pay any price, and that national suffering of almost any kind could be domesticated into an experience of virtual terror akin to a theme park ride. The first part of that dream had already started to collapse with the fall of the stock market, the rise in unemployment and the evaporation of the surplus, well before terrorists achieved the literal annihilation of the most commanding edifice of American capitalism. 
But the dream's second part was still going strong right until Tuesday. The previously planned cover that People magazine scrapped that afternoon to make way for the thousands dead was yet another story about shark attacks. Never mind that the rate of shark attacks has been routine this year, and that sharks are a statistically minuscule cause of mortality at any time. (There have been at most two deaths in any year since 1990.) The great shark scare of 2001 -- already speeding to the dustbin of history, along with such other summer ephemera as Gary Condit, Robert Blake and Lizzie Grubman -- was typical of an age in which we inflated troublesome but passing crises into catastrophes that provided the illusion of a national test of character, or some kind of moral equivalent of war, but in fact were for most of us merely invitations to indulge in cost-free hyperventilation. 
From the rampaging fears over school shootings following Columbine (at a time when U.S. juvenile homicide rates were falling to a 33-year low) to the protracted bellicosity surrounding Elian Gonzalez to the California blackout that didn't happen at the start of this summer, we've been looking for a Pearl Harbor. But always a Pearl Harbor of few casualties -- always a Pearl Harbor that could readily be brought to "closure."
In our pop culture, this same impulse for vicarious, finite warfare could be seen in the rise of TV reality programs like "Survivor," "Fear Factor" and "Lost" in which we thrill to the spectacle of contestants competing in war games -- always with the understanding that no one is really going to get hurt in a prime-time slice of "reality" that must move the sponsors' products. On the day before Tuesday, after all, "survival," "fear" and "lost" had different meanings than they did the day after. 
Our desire for vicarious battle, the one commodity a stock market bubble couldn't buy, also explains the fetishization of World War II. This week everyone has been comparing Tuesday's events to Pearl Harbor, but only two months ago Pearl Harbor had been sanitized as "Pearl Harbor." In that Hollywood version of the attack, seen by countless teenagers who may now have to fight an actual war, the enemy seems polite, the violence looks like the digitalized carnage of video games, and a harrowing American defeat gets an upbeat "victory" coda that minimizes and vastly shortens the ensuing years of hardship, loss and heroism that were required for the Allies to win a war. 
At the high end of what I suspect is the now-defunct World War II craze is HBO's brand new series, "Band of Brothers," whose relentlessly publicized premiere preceded this week's tragedy. "There was a time when the world asked ordinary men to do extraordinary things," went the ad copy, which took pains to remind us that the miniseries was "based on the true story." In a way, the pitch enshrines the complacency of the day before Tuesday, with its assumption that the prospect of civilians having to make any kind of extraordinary effort for a national good was as far in the past as the knights of the Round Table. 
That fat, daydreaming America is gone now, way gone -- as spent as the tax-rebate checks, as forgotten as the 2000 campaign's debate over prescription-drug plans, as bankrupt as our dot-com fantasies of instant millions, as vaporized as the faith that high-tech surveillance and weaponry would keep us safe. The America that saw Disney's "Pearl Harbor" is as far removed from the America that was attacked on Tuesday as the America that listened to Orson Welles's "War of the Worlds" was from the America attacked at Pearl Harbor. "Instead of the next big thing being some new technological innovation or medical breakthrough," wrote David Rieff of our post-Tuesday nation in The Los Angeles Times this week, "the next big thing is likely to be fear."
For the America that is gone, the America that could have it all and feel no pain beyond that on cable TV, George W. Bush was the perfect president. We could have a big tax cut (or at least some of us could) along with increases in spending for better schools and defense -- and all without having to dip into the Social Security stash. We could lick our energy crisis -- does anyone still remember the energy crisis? -- while still guzzling gas. Faith-based institutions would take care of the poor and unfortunate. No serviceman would have to spend any more time in harm's way than Mr. Bush (or most political leaders of his generation, regardless of party) did during Vietnam.
Since Tuesday, there has been a towering leader in view -- Rudolph Giuliani -- and, in a lucid and rational Colin Powell, potentially another. The big-three network anchors have upheld pre-Drudge journalistic standards, offering reportage rather than blather and rumor, doing their part to steady a country that still gathers at the tube, not the computer screen, at a time like this. In all this we've been blessed, for there were 48 hours during which the president was scarcely visible or articulate. 
The country is rooting for Mr. Bush, as it must. We need him to become the president of the America we have now. This means in part a U-turn in style -- more face time with his fellow citizens, less scripted rhetoric from the alliterative phrasemakers who stick pretty words in his mouth (as they did Tuesday night) that sound as if they were written by the same glib stylists who gave him "home to the heartland" and "communities of character." 
But style is the easy part. What's more pressing are changes in content. Many of his administration's previous policies are either irrelevant or contrary to a war-bound nation's interests. Education and tax cuts are no longer our top priority. The unilateralism the administration has practiced in walking away from the Kyoto accord on global warming and the ABM treaty is anathema to the building of an international coalition to fight a war. Decisions that are "the most profound of our time" (as his handlers described his stem-cell verdict) can no longer be dragged out with weeks of self-aggrandizing spin.
But most of all, Mr. Bush will have to prepare the nation for something many living Americans, him included, have never had to muster -- sacrifice. In his pronouncements thus far, the president has expressed sorrow and vowed to "whip" evil, but surely he will soon have to prepare Americans to give up far more in wartime than curbside check-in at the airport. Anyone who lives in New York has seen this week how many Americans are prepared to do this. That's the example our mayor and governor set, and it's the example thousands of New Yorkers have followed with open hearts. 
Though polls show that we overwhelmingly support the idea of going to war, they don't indicate whether we understand that idea. The killers who attacked us on Tuesday had an all too ruthless eye for appraising how little we knew on Monday. We have no choice now but, as a horror-struck Hamlet said after being visited by the ghost, to "wipe away all trivial fond records" from the table of memory, and hope that our learning curve will be steep.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HOMICIDE (72%); SHOOTINGS (72%); HIJACKING (70%); TRENDS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); CRIME RATES (62%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (62%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (61%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%) TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS 

PERSON: FRANK RICH (52%) RICH, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



392 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: China: Exports Slow 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 China's export growth slowed in August, narrowing the monthly trade surplus, as the global economic slowdown cooled demand for China-made goods. 
Exports rose 0.9 percent from a year earlier to $23.5 billion, according to figures released by the government's Xinhua news agency. That was in line with economists' expectations and followed a 6.6 percent increase the previous month. The trade surplus fell to $1.4 billion from $1.9 billion in July. Chinese exports have slumped this year after they increased 28 percent last year as demand in its major markets, like the United States and Japan, cooled because of deteriorating economic conditions. Exports account for about one-fifth of the Chinese economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



393 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: FINANCIAL STRUGGLE; 
Airlines, in Search of Relief, Warn of Bankruptcy

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

 BODY:
Airline executives and analysts expressed grave concern for the industry yesterday, warning that mounting losses stemming from this week's terrorist attacks could force most of the country's major carriers into bankruptcy. 
 "This patient is dying very quickly," Gordon M. Bethune, the chairman and chief executive of Continental Airlines, the fifth largest carrier, said in a telephone interview, referring to the industry. "We all are going to be bankrupt before the end of the year. There is not an airline that I know of that has the excess cash to handle this." 
 The industry's losses are estimated at $100 million to $275 million a day since Tuesday, when the government grounded all flights for the first time ever. 
The airlines were hoping that Congress would grant them $12.5 billion in loan guarantees and $2.5 billion in direct aid as part of a $40 billion emergency benefits package. Congress approved the package yesterday, but stopped short of appropriating the money for the airlines. The industry will now have to push to get the money in a later bill. 
Mr. Bethune and others said the aid is desperately needed to help sustain airlines while they adjust to new security requirements, get their planes back in the air and try to lure back jittery travelers. But executives, industry analysts and consultants predicted that even with federal assistance, the industry would emerge much smaller than it was before Tuesday's attacks. Large layoffs are now a virtual certainty. 
"It's a disaster," said David Treitel, the chairman of SH&E, a prominent aviation consulting firm in Manhattan.
Mr. Treitel predicted that this week's events would trim the industry's sales by $15 billion over the next 12 months. That represents 16 percent of ticket sales last year.
With high fixed costs to pay for airplanes, employee salaries and fuel, airlines can rack up losses quickly if demand drops. As the airlines struggled yesterday to resume operations, passengers were sparse.
Continental flew 40 percent of its schedule yesterday, for example, but only 40 percent of the seats on those flights were filled, the airline said. About 30 percent of passengers who booked tickets did not show up. 
American Airlines, the world's largest carrier, said yesterday that it planned to return to only 80 percent of the schedule it flew before the attacks. Other airlines also questioned whether they would be able to match their previous schedules. 
Security precautions adopted in the wake of this week's terrorist attacks will cut into the airlines' business, too. They are now barred from carrying mail and cargo in the bellies of their passenger planes; that alone will cost the industry billions of dollars, experts said.
"What we are seeing is a huge shift in the marketplace," Mr. Bethune said. He projected that Continental's sales would fall by half in the next 90 days. 
Mr. Bethune is widely known for his outspokenness, but even some of the industry's staunchest critics are expressing concern. 
"We do have a crisis here," said Kevin P. Mitchell, the chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, which lobbies on behalf of the airlines' largest corporate customers. "I might question the number, but I don't question the sense of urgency. I have been worried about this all week."
A shrinking airline industry spells trouble for many other businesses. Hotels and vacation spots will suffer. Airlines are also likely to put off deliveries of new planes from Boeing and Airbus, or even cancel orders. 
Mr. Bethune said he talked yesterday with Jeffrey Immelt, the new chairman of General Electric, which has a large aviation-related business. "They have huge problems," he said. "We have 100 new airplanes financed by G.E. G.E. is also the exclusive supplier of our engines and does our maintenance." 
Beth Comstock, a spokeswoman for G.E., confirmed that the two executives had spoken and that G.E. was aware of the difficulties facing the airlines. But she called Mr. Bethune's claims about G.E. overstated. "We are working with our customers," Ms. Comstock said. "We will have to see where this goes." 
Even before Tuesday's attacks, the airline industry was suffering from a severe downturn. A sharp decline in the number of high-paying business travelers, combined with high fuel prices and expensive new labor contracts, have sent most major carriers into the red.
The airline industry's last great crisis came in the early 1990's, when the Persian Gulf war depressed demand just as the industry increased capacity by adding scores of new jets. At the time, Robert L. Crandall, then head of American Airlines, said the airlines had lost more between 1990 and 1995 than they had made since the Wright brothers' first flight in 1903. Numerous carriers went into bankruptcy, including Continental.
President Clinton, then early in his first term, appointed a blue-ribbon commission to find a way to revive the industry. No significant steps were taken, but demand picked up as the economy boomed, and the industry soon recovered. In 1996, the major airlines posted the first of a string of record annual profits, which ended only this year. 
Yesterday some lawmakers asked why a decision on aid for the airlines had to be made with such haste. Others were reluctant to spend a large part of the $40 billion in emergency relief on the airlines.
But proponents of aid said the industry had never had to recover from being grounded three days, and had never faced the kind of public fear resulting from this week's crashes. 
United Airlines and American, whose planes were hijacked, face even greater difficulties, because they are likely to be sued by the thousands of victims of the attacks. That liability could cause their lines of credit to dry up. Many analysts expect the share prices of both airlines' parent companies, the UAL Corporation and the AMR Corporation, respectively, to plunge when the stock market opens. 
The two airlines have been lobbying Congress for legislation that would limit their liability to the passengers and crew of the four hijacked planes that crashed in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.
One airline executive said that ultimately the industry would get the relief it was seeking. "This bill has never been viewed as the endgame," the executive said, referring to yesterday's deliberations in the House. 
But Mr. Bethune expressed frustration with Congress for not having acting already.
"What I am seeing and what I don't think our government is seeing is that the airlines are driving the economy," he said. "We are right on the cusp of having a national catastrophe." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (79%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (79%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); TICKET SALES (68%); APPROVALS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



394 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2606 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS; 
Where to Get Information: A List of Emergency Numbers and Web Sites

 BODY:
Searching for missing loved ones. Finding a place to stay.
 Trying to get to work. Looking for a way to help. 
 Below are emergency numbers, help lines, Web sites and addresses as well as information on events, closings, transportation and utilities.
Updates are on The New York Times Web site: www.nytimes.com

POLICE, FIRE AND OTHER EMERGENCY CALLS

911: New York City officials request that 911 be reserved for true emergencies. For non-emergencies, call local police precincts and fire stations or regular headquarters numbers.
New York City Office of Emergency Management: (212) 477-3574 or (212) 477-3598.

INVESTIGATION TIPS

To relay pertinent information about the attacks to investigators, call the F.B.I. at 1-866-483-5137 or 800-331-0075 or the New York Police Department, or make a report at www.ifccfbi.gov.

MISSING AND KNOWN VICTIMS

To report missing people, call the New York City police at (212) 741-4626 or 1-866-856-4167.
To get information on victims, the hot line is: (212) 560-2730.
Relatives of missing people may go to the 69th Regiment Armory (Lexington Avenue and East 26th Street) or the New York University Medical Center (First Avenue at East 30th Street).
If possible bring photos and dental records.
Or, you may call the armory at (212) 889-6862 or 889-6861.
Police officers' relatives should call (718) 677-8238.
Relatives of city firefighters and Emergency Medical Service workers should call (718) 999-2541.
Port Authority workers' relatives should call (973) 565-5501, -5505, or
-5506.
Pentagon workers' relatives should call 1-877-663-6772. Or check a list on the Department of Defense's Web site: www.defenselink.mil/news/
releases.html.
Relatives of other military personnel should call these numbers:
For the Army 1-800-984-8523, for the Navy and Marines, 1-877-663-6772, and for the Air Force, 1-800-253-9276.
Companies at the World Trade Center have these hot lines for relatives of missing employees:
Aon: 1-866-256-4154.
Blue Cross Blue Shield: 1-888-761-8365.
Cantor Fitzgerald, eSpeed and TradeSpark: 1-866-326-3188.
Carr Future: 1-800-755-7620.
Fiduciary Trust Company International: 1-800-632-2350, ext. 22578.
Fuji Bank: 1-888-537-FUJI.
Marsh & McLennan (includes Mercer, Guy Carpenter, Seabury & Smith, and MMC Enterprise Risk): (212) 345-6000.
Morgan Stanley: 1-888-883-4391.
Pitney Bowes: 1-800-932-3631.
For a more complete list of World Trade Center tenants, see www.
nytimes.com
New Jersey families of missing people are asked to report to their local police departments or state police barracks, instead of going to or calling agencies in New York City.

AIRPLANE VICTIMS

Airline hot lines and Web sites for relatives of missing passengers and crew members:
American Airlines: 1-800-245-0999, http://www.aa.com/
United Airlines: 1-800-932-8555, http://www.united.com and http://www.ual.com/

HOSPITALS

Patient locator, organized by the Greater New York Hospital Association: http://www.gnyha.org.
Click on "Patient Locator System."
Manhattan hospitals involved in treating victims and rescue workers include:
Bellevue Hospital Center
462 First Avenue;(212) 562-4141
Beth Israel Medical Center
First Avenue at 16th Street;(212) 420-3887
Cabrini Medical Center
227 East 19th Street; (212) 995-6000
Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center; (212) 305-2500
Gouverneur Skilled Nursing Facility
227 Madison Street; (212) 238-7000
N.Y.U. Downtown
170 Williams Street; (212) 312-5148
N.Y.U. Medical Center
550 First Avenue; (212)263-6906
New York Weill Cornell Medical Center; (212) 746-5454
St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital
(212) 523-4000
St. Vincent's Hospital
Seventh Avenue and 12th Street; (212) 604-7285
U.S. Veterans Medical Center
423 East 23rd Street; (212) 686-7500
(dial x3691 at the recording's voice)

VOLUNTEERS

People volunteering to help should report to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on 11th Avenue at 35th Street, between 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. or call 1-800-801-8092.
Donations of supplies should be delivered to the Javits Center parking lot at 34th Street and the West Side Highway.
Anyone able to offer vehicles or equipment should call the city Office of Emergency Management at (212) 477-3574 or -3598.
Volunteer physicians should call (518) 431-7600.

BLOOD DONATIONS

Manyt blood collection sites have been overwhelmed with donors.
People wishing to donate blood should wait and call later to the Red Cross, the Blood Center or local hosptials.
The Red Cross:800-448-3543.
The Blood Center of New York: 800-933-2566 or check www.nybloodcenter.org.

STATE AND FEDERAL ASSISTANCE

Businesses and individual seeking aid should call the Federal Emergency Management Agency at 1-800-462-9029.
Affected businesses should also call the Empire State Development Corp. 1-800-I LOVE NY.
Unemployment benefits:
People who live or work in New York City and are jobless because of the disaster should call the New York State Department of Labor 888-209-8124 to apply for regular unemployment benefits or special disaster unemployment aid.

HOUSING, SHELTERS

The Red Cross has shelters with meals, counselors and nurses.
Manhattan
Bayard Rustin High School at 351 West 18th Street.
Seward Park High School at 350 Grand Street.
Washington Irving High School at 40 Irving Place.
Fashion Industry High School at 225 West 24th Street.
Chelsea High School at 131 Sixth Avenue.
Norman Thomas High School at 111 East 33rd Street.
City School at 16 Clarkson Street.
Junior High School 22 at 111 Columbia Street.
Intermediate School 131 at 100 Hester Street.
Comprehensive School at 240 Second Avenue.
Brooklyn
Westinghouse High School at 105 Johnson Street.
Staten Island
Curtis High School at 105 Hamilton Avenue.
Battery Park City Tenants
Tenant hot line for evacuated residents of Gateway Plaza at Battery Park City: (718) 575-4881.

TOURISTS AND TRAVELERS

Stranded travelers should call the New York City Convention and Visitors Bureau at (212) 484-1222.

MEMORIAL AND RELIGIOUS SERVICES:

(In Manhattan, unless otherwise noted)
All Angels Church, 251 West 80th Street, prayers, Saturday, 7 p.m.
Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue at 110th Street. (212) 222-7200. Prayer vigil at 6 p.m., Saturday. Sermon by Dr. Han Seung-soo of the United Nations, Sunday, 11 a.m.
Central Synagogue, 123 East 55th Street, between Park and Lexington Avenues. (212) 838-5122. Community house open for meditation. Shabbat service, Saturday, 10 a.m.
Church of Epiphany, 1393 York Avenue. Continuous prayers. Special prayers, 11 a.m., Sunday.
Church of St. Luke's in the Fields, 487 Hudson Street, between Grove and Christopher Streets. (212) 924-0562. Special services Sunday at 8, 9:15 and 11:15 a.m. and 5 p.m.
Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, 7 West 55th Street at Fifth Avenue. (212) 841-5455. Prayer services at 1 p.m. Saturday, Monday and Tuesday. Worship services Sunday at 9 and 11 a.m.
Grace Church, 802 Broadway at 11th Street. (212) 254-2000. Special services Saturday at 6 p.m. and Sunday at 9 and 11 a.m., 6 and 9 p.m.
Greek Orthodox Church of Zoodohos Peghe, 35-73 Bruckner Boulevard, the Bronx. Service on Sunday at 8:30 a.m.
Islamic Cultural Center, 96th Street and Second Ave. (212) 722-5234.
Makor, 35 West 67th Street at Columbus Avenue (212) 601-1000.
Marble Collegiate Church, 1 West 29th Street. (212) 686-2770. Special services Saturday at noon and 6:30 p.m.
Riverside Church, Riverside Drive and 120th Street. (212) 870-6700. Service on Sunday at 10:45 a.m.
St. Adalbert's Church, St. Adalbert's Place, Elm Park, Staten Island. Holy Hour, Sunday, 1-3 p.m.
St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue at 51st Street. (212) 751-1616. Service of Remembrance, Sunday at 11 a.m.
St. Patrick's Cathedral, Fifth Avenue at 50th St. (212) 753-2261. Special services Sunday and Monday at 5:30 p.m.

VIGILS AND OTHER COMMUNITY EVENTS

Free concert, Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, 3:30 p.m., Sunday. Tickets on a first-come basis starting at noon.
Meditation, chanting and Metta at the New York Insight Meditation Center at the Children's Aid Society, 219 Sullivan Street, Manhattan. (917) 441-0915, Sunday, 12:30-5 p.m.

CLOSED, CANCELLED

All United States financial markets plan to reopen Monday.

Schools
All city public schools will reopen at their normal times on Monday, with these exceptions:
Temporary locations and delayed openings are planned for the following schools:
P.S./I.S. 89, P.S. 150, P.S. 234, High School for Leadership and Public Service, Stuyvesant High School, Murray Bergtraum, High School for Economics and Finance and P.S. 721M at Stuyvesant.
For details, call (718) 392-8855 or check www.nycenet.edu.
Universities
The New School classes remained closed Friday but offices were open.
Pace University's Manhattan branch will reopen Wednesday.
New York University has resumed classes.
New York Law School will resume classes on Wednesday.
The Borough of Manhattan Community College remains closed while it is used in rescue efforts. Call this number: (212) 541-0432.
Long Island University Brooklyn campus has reopened.
St. John's University reopened except for its Manhattan campus.
Courts
State courts in Manhattan remained closed Friday.
Courts in other boroughs reopened Friday, but jurors should not report to any court in the city until further notice. Call 1-800-COURT-NY.
Primaries
New York State primaries are rescheduled for Sept. 25 with runoffs on Oct. 11.
Cultural
Fashion Week is canceled.
Broadway shows reopened on Thursday.
The New York City Opera canceled Friday night and will open its season Saturday.
The Electric Light Orchestra concert at the PNC Bank Arts Center in Holmdel, N.J., on Sept. 28 is canceled.
Lloyd's Music Festival, featuring B.B. King, at the PNC Bank Arts Center on Sept. 14 was postponed until further notice.
The Stevie Nicks concert at Radio City Music Hall was canceled.
The New York Times Arts & Leisure Weekend and "Critic's Choice" Times Talks series has been postponed.
Lincoln Center's three-part Rachmaninoff Revisited Festival on Sept. 13-15 was postponed.
The CMJ Music Marathon and FilmFest has been rescheduled for October 10-13.
Sports
The middleweight championship fight between Felix Trinidad and Bernard Hopkins, scheduled for Saturday at Madison Square Garden, has been postponed.
The BNP Paribas Masters, a seniors tennis event scheduled for next week in New York City, has been postponed.
NASCAR's Winston Cup race in New Hampshire on Sunday has been rescheduled for Nov. 23.
Major league baseball postponed its entire schedule of 15 games.
NFL games scheduled for this weekend will not be played. Many college football games also called off.
The New York Basketball Classic benefit game, scheduled for Sunday, has been canceled.
Other Events
The 75th Annual Feast of San Gennaro in Little Italy has been postponed.
The move of the battleship U.S.S. New Jersey to its permanent site, scheduled for Sunday, has been postponed.
The annual McGuire Air Force Base air show Saturday and Sunday has been canceled.

TRANSPORTATION

Transportation is gradually being restored, but conditions remain subject to change.
For information on subways, city buses, express buses, commuter trains, toll bridges and tunnels: www.mta.nyc.ny.us/index.html.
For road, bridge and tunnel traffic reports, listen to WCBS 880 AM or WINS 1010 AM radio.
As of last night the status was as follows:
Airports
United States airports, all of which had been closed, have been gradually reopening. Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark reopened, but schedules were uncertain. Backlogged reservations, security measures and land transportation problems are very likely to cause delays. Call airlines for information.
Subways
There were numerous delays and revised routings. Service on the C and 9 lines was suspended. The A bypasses stops between the Canal and High Street stations. The E line is detoured on the A line in Lower Manhattan and is extended to Euclid Avenue in Brooklyn. The J terminates at Essex Street. The Q was bypassing the Canal and Prince Street stops. The R was running only in Brooklyn.
The M and N were not running between Manhattan and Brooklyn but were operating on both sides of the river. The southbound 1 terminated at 14th Street. The southbound 2 and 3 terminated at 34th Street. The southbound 4 and 5 bypass the Fulton and Wall Streets and Bowling Green stops.
City Buses
Service is suspended south of Canal Street in Manhattan. Express buses were not running south of 23rd Street in Manhattan.
For subway and bus updates, call the status hot line at (718) 243-7777 or check the M.T.A. Web site.
Ferries
The Staten Island Ferry had been making only emergency trips and was not open to regular passengers as of last night.
New York Waterway Ferries resumed operations except for Pier 11 at Wall Street.
Suburban Trains and Buses
Normal service has resumed on the Long Island Rail Road and Metro-North.
New Jersey Transit has resumed service, except for its lines to Wall Street. There are detours on the Nos. 1, 43, 64, 68, 80, 81, 82 and 86 lines. Instead of ending at Exchange Place, where rescue efforts continue, buses will go to the corner of Washington and Montgomery Streets, and will depart from the corner of Washington and Columbus Drive.
Information: (973) 762-5100 or http://www.njtransit.com/
PATH's World Trade Center service is closed indefinitely, but other lines have resumed operations.

HIGHWAYS, BRIDGES, TUNNELS

Authorities urge travelers to use mass transportation whenever possible, especially to and from Manhattan.
Lower Manhattan streets: All streets below Canal Street were still closed yesterday, but streets and businesses from Canal to 14th Street reopened. Plans are being made to open routes to Wall Street by Monday.
Battery Park City: access is limited to residents with identification. They should go to Pier 40 near Houston Street. See www.batteryparkcity.org
The Holland and Brooklyn-Battery Tunnels were closed; other tunnels are reopened.
The Brooklyn Bridge was was closed.
Commuter information is also available: www.metrocommute.com

BOATS AND SHIPPING

The New York Harbor and parts of the Hudson and East Rivers had been closed to regular traffic last night.

UTILITIES

Telephone
AT&T residential service: 1-800-222-0300; business service: 1-800-222-0400.
WorldCom business service: 1-877-586-1234, residential service: 1-877-892-2839, between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m.
Electric and Gas
Con Edison service: 1-800-75-CONED.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Funds should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE FOUNDATION
899 10th Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10019

NEW YORK CITY FIRE SAFETY FOUNDATION
555 West 57th Street
New York, N.Y. 10019

NEW YORK CITY POLICE FOUNDATION
345 Park Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10154

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
FDR Station
P.O. Box 5314
New York, N.Y. 10150

Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an internet donations service.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

*New address as of 9/12

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rescue workers yesterday in the rubble of the World Trade Center. There are phone lines to report missing people and get information on victims. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); MISSING PERSONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WEB SITES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); ARMIES (74%); HIJACKING (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%); CITIES (71%); TERRORISM (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); PARAMEDICS (64%) TERRORISM; EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBERS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (51%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (51%); FIDUCIARY TRUST CO INTERNATIONAL (50%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (50%); MMC (NYSE) (50%); MHM (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



395 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: Morton's Forecasts a Loss 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: NEW HYDE PARK, N.Y., Sept. 14 

 BODY:
The Morton's Restaurant Group said that it expected to report a third-quarter loss and closed its Wall Street-area restaurant indefinitely in the aftermath of terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center. 
 The company, which owns Morton's of Chicago steakhouses, said it had weak sales because of a sluggish economy and reduced business travel. 
 Morton's said its restaurant at 90 West Street in New York was damaged in the attack on the trade center. All of the company's employees are safe, Morton's said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (87%); HIJACKING (87%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; RESTAURANTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: MORTON'S RESTAURANT GROUP INC (93%); MORTON'S OF CHICAGO INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MORTON'S RESTAURANT GROUP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



396 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: THE OVERNIGHT SHIPPER; 
Back in the Air Again, And Feeling a Special Rush

BYLINE:  By EMILY YELLIN 

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
When David J. Bronczek, who runs the FedEx Corporation's air operations, went out to get his newspaper this morning, he found a note on his mailbox from a neighbor. "The most wonderful sound I've heard in a lot of years was the sound of your planes coming over my house last night," it read, "because it made everything seem right again."
 Fifty-two hours after being grounded Tuesday, FedEx put its first plane back into the sky at 2 p.m. Central time on Thursday; by early today, 150 white cargo jets with the company's purple and orange logo had sailed off into the skies over the company's primary hub here. 
 And though that was only about two-thirds of normal, the sound of those takeoffs had a special resonance for people in FedEx's hometown, as a sign that one of the nation's prime arteries of commerce was again flowing. 
The company, which ships about 3.3 million packages every business day, has contingency plans to deal with slowdowns and delays all over the world, plans for coping with severe weather or various natural disasters. But resuming full-scale domestic operations from a complete grounding of its air fleet was new terrain. 
For the first time since it started business in 1973 as an overnight delivery service, FedEx had to rely solely on trucks to keep its packages moving. It tripled the size of its truck fleet, to more than 950 trucks, by contracting with various trucking concerns.
FedEx had to put new security precautions into effect after Tuesday's terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, including a tightening of security around its hubs here and in Newark, Indianapolis, Oakland, Calif., Anchorage, and Fort Worth, along with some smaller operation centers. But as an all-cargo airline, the requirements for FedEx were less complicated than those for passenger carriers, said Mr. Bronczek, the president and chief executive of the company's FedEx Express unit.
"We don't have passengers and we don't have anybody flying in our jumpseats for the moment, so it was easier for us to get up and running," he said. "Our cargo operation was actually ready to go a day earlier than we actually got released to go."
Though analysts said they thought that the economic effect of the grounding itself would not be significant for FedEx, this week may have given the company a taste of things to come. 
"For the near term, because the airports were shut down, the impact of this on FedEx as a company was very much like a snowstorm," said Edward Wolfe, a transportation analyst at Bear Stearns. "But for the longer term the impact will be contingent on what regulations result from this incident. My gut tells me there will be more regulation across the board, so that could increase expenses."
Anything that requires shippers like FedEx to scrutinize packages more closely might slow deliveries and, presumably, lower the appeal of services sold on the basis of speed.
The pain for FedEx would have been sharper had it not taken steps to diversify its business by buying RPS, a ground delivery company, in 1997 -- partly in response to moves by its rival, United Parcel Service, to increase its air cargo business. Last year, FedEx had 47 percent of the domestic market for next-day air delivery, by revenue, according to Bear Stearns estimates; U.P.S. had 83 percent of the ground delivery market. 
Through the week, Mr. Bronczek said, he sought to reassure both customers and employees that the grounding of its aircraft was not crippling FedEx in its fundamental mission. "What we tried to do during this whole thing was to assure our customers that we're going to be here for them," he said. "It may not be overnight, as fast as we've always been. But through our ground transportation contingency plans, we will keep packages moving."
Delivery drivers had an idea of their own that quickly got company approval. Couriers all over the country were allowed to fly American flags on their delivery vans. "That was not in any contingency," Mr. Bronczek said. "It was just part of an emotional, psychological response to this incident."
For Kevin Dickerson, a 41-year-old aircraft mechanic, the biggest boost came Thursday afternoon when he walked up to an MD-10 airplane that had been sitting dormant for almost three days and got to work.
"When I saw the first beacon lights come on," he said, referring to the red lights at the top and bottom of the plane's nose, "I just got excited. I thought, 'Now we're going to get back to some semblance of being normal.' "
Mr. Dickerson said he was instructed to check the plane more thoroughly than usual -- because of new security rules, he assumed. But that, too, gave him comfort. 
Then it was time for a crew of 18 to load about 110,000 pounds of packages onto the MD-10 (a version of the DC-10), FedEx Flight 3405 heading to Oakland. There was an air of celebration as the men and women did their jobs. 
Sylvester Day, 37, sat at the controls of a conveyer belt. "I just missed loading the planes," he said. For the last two and a half days, he had been loading cargo onto trucks parked where planes usually are. "I love the feeling of being around the planes," Mr. Day said. "It just saddened me not to be around them."
Even after the plane was fully loaded, it still had to sit. The Oakland airport had not yet opened. At 8:14 p.m. Central time, the decision was made to send the plane to Sacramento, where it landed four hours later. There, the cargo was unloaded onto trucks, sent to the Oakland hub for sorting, and delivered, starting this morning.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FedEx returned to normal operations yesterday after a grounding of all planes in the United States. Above, a crew in Memphis secured a container of packages for a flight on Thursday. Top, a worker sorts through a sea of packages. (Photographs by Rollin Riggs for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PACKAGE SHIPPING (93%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRUCKING (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); WEATHER (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AIRPORTS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%); NATURAL DISASTERS (51%) DELIVERY SERVICES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%); FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP (63%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ;FEDEX CORP 

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%) SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES; 

PERSON: ;BRONCZEK, DAVID J; YELLIN, EMILY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



397 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: War Without Illusions 

 BODY:
There is no doubt that this week's terrorist attacks on New York and Washington were the opening salvos in the first American war of the 21st century. Less clear is just what sort of war this will be and how the United States can ensure that it prevails. George W. Bush, suddenly thrust into the unaccustomed role of commander in chief, faces fateful decisions about the use of American military power in distant, difficult corners of the world. He must design an effective battle plan and couple it with a skillful diplomatic campaign that sustains strong international support.
 Some of the initial war talk we have heard from Washington is disconcerting. Paul Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense, spoke of "ending states who sponsor terrorism." That may work as a form of intimidation, but we trust he does not have in mind invading and occupying Iraq, Iran, Syria and Sudan, as well as Afghanistan, nations with a combined population of more than 160 million people. 
 To be realistic -- and successful -- in fighting terrorism, the United States will have to rely on intensive diplomatic pressure, severe economic sanctions and united international support to deal with some of the nations that support terrorist activities. Forcing a change of governments in places like Iraq or Syria would require in each case the application of military power on the same scale that was used in the Persian Gulf war, or greater. Changing the behavior of the present governments, however, may be possible through concerted and sustained pressure from the coalition of nations that Mr. Bush is trying to assemble.
For now, at least, the one state where American military power might be effectively used is Afghanistan, where the Taliban-led government is host to Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in Tuesday's attack. But removing the Taliban from power and hunting down Mr. bin Laden's Afghanistan-based followers would be no easy task, even for America's powerful armed forces. 
Trying to dislodge the Taliban, capture Mr. bin Laden and eradicate terrorist training camps from Afghanistan would be extremely difficult if American and NATO forces had to operate from afar, using air bases in Turkey, aircraft carriers in the Indian Ocean and airborne assault troops. Afghanistan, a mountainous land of widely dispersed villages and fiercely independent people, is a general's nightmare and guerrilla commander's fantasy, as the Soviet Union learned after it invaded in 1979.
Even a military campaign launched from nearby nations like Pakistan and the former Soviet republics of Central Asia would be arduous. Ousting the Taliban would probably require a ground invasion leading to the capture and occupation of Kabul, the capital, and other main cities. That would still leave the rugged countryside, where the terrorist base camps are located, beyond American military control. Difficult ground expeditions would have to be launched against the bin Laden organization's scattered hillside encampments. 
No warm welcome can be expected from Afghanistan's 26 million people, who have traditionally greeted outside armies with hostility. Controlling Kabul has never given any government or occupier mastery over the rest of Afghanistan. If Mr. Bush wants to wage war there he must understand the risks and plan a campaign crafted to overcome the dangers that American forces would encounter. 
The cooperation of Russia, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, all with airfields and military staging areas within striking distance of Afghanistan, is likely to be critical to success. Some form of Russian support seems possible, and Saudi Arabia is now considering American requests for various kinds of help. Pakistan is more problematic, despite its government's pledges of cooperation. Even if Gen. Pervez Musharraf, the country's military dictator, agrees to support American military action, other army leaders and powerful Islamic fundamentalist groups are closely aligned with the Taliban. Any American victories in Afghanistan would quickly turn into a catastrophic defeat if the war there turned Pakistan, with its 142 million people and nuclear weapons, into an Islamic fundamentalist state. 
In the anger and revulsion generated by this week's attacks, it is all too easy to wish for a quick and decisive American military response. But the nature of the enemy, and the sanctuaries where he hides, promise to make this a long and unpredictable war. As it begins, Mr. Bush and the nation must be under no illusions about the battles ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MILITARY BASES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); AIRLINES (65%) TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (69%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (71%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



398 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: IN INDIA; 
New Delhi Eager to Join U.S. in Fighting Terror

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
India has long felt the bitter hurt of terrorist attacks on civilians in the Himalayan state of Jammu and Kashmir. For just as long, it has been frustrated that the United States has not leaned more heavily on Pakistan, which India holds responsible for sponsoring the Islamic fighters it blames for atrocities in the Himalayas.
 Now, with the United States reeling from its own experience of terrorism, India has welcomed the Bush administration's decision to use America's military might against terrorists and has eagerly offered military cooperation. 
 In a nationally televised address tonight, Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee pledged Indian unity with the American people, warned his country to gird for a possible American response and uttered a gently worded, "I told you so."
"For years," he said, "we in India have been alerting others to the fact that terrorism is a scourge for all of humanity, that what happens in Bombay one day is bound to happen elsewhere tomorrow." 
As American attention turns inexorably toward the Taliban -- which rules most of Afghanistan, is supported by Pakistan and shelters Osama bin Laden -- Indian and American officials have held a flurry of meetings. In the event of an attack, it is expected that India would share intelligence on the location of Afghan and Pakistani training camps, and offer access to Indian military bases where American aircraft could refuel.
The confluence of American and Indian interests on terrorism has suddenly been elevated from one of the various themes in improving relations to the fulcrum. Indian officials and scholars say they hope the United States will repay India's solidarity by pressing Islamic Pakistan to stop the violence in mostly Muslim Kashmir.
"What Indians hope and expect is that no longer will it be possible for Americans to view the threat to their national interest as solely a function of the personality of Osama bin Laden, and that American policy makers become deeply conscious about what happens in Pakistan and translate that into pressure on Pakistan," said Amitabh Mattoo, a professor of international relations at Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi. 
In the final year of the Clinton administration, the United States drew closer to India, the world's largest democracy and a growing economic power, and distanced itself from economically enfeebled Pakistan, where the military took power in a coup in 1999.
In the first months of the Bush administration, that trend has accelerated and the terrorism issue will add momentum. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TALIBAN (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); RELIGION (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); MILITARY BASES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); AIRLINES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%) TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) DUGGER, CELIA W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%); DELHI, INDIA (74%); MUMBAI, INDIA (59%) KASHMIR (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (74%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); INDIA

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



399 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE ATTACKS: CITY HALL; 
A Race for Space, and Incentives, to Keep Companies in City

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration, desperate to keep companies displaced by Tuesday's disaster from fleeing New York City for good, is putting on a full-court press to keep them, administration officials said yesterday.
 In addition to searching for victims and recovering bodies, persuading businesses to stay -- even at what might be a considerable tax loss to the city -- has become one of the administration's main goals. 
 "We are extremely committed to keeping businesses in New York," said Deputy Mayor Robert M. Harding. "We are busy calling people and saying, 'Tell us what you need.' " 
Since Wednesday, the mayor's office has been calling the chief executives of all the firms displaced in the collapse of the twin towers, finding out what their technological, space and other needs are and promising to help. Matching lists with the real estate, entertainment and development industries, officials from various city agencies and business groups are trying to replace the roughly 20 million square feet of commercial space estimated to be lost in the disaster.
The city is already confronting the real possibility of major businesses' leaving. Companies like American Express and Lehman Brothers are said to have signed deals to move across the river to New Jersey, and dozens more are expected to follow. 
"The task is colossal," Mr. Harding conceded. The affected area accounts for 80,000 jobs and for millions of dollars in personal and corporate taxes to the city, to say nothing of the value of the fallen towers.
"With the full force of what has happened being so fresh, the task seems difficult if not impossible," said Mary Ann Tighe, a vice chairwoman of the real estate firm Insignia/ESG. "The city and state people are working hard to formulate an incentive program. But it is not going to be possible to accommodate everyone because of the nature of the space available in Manhattan. However, people are becoming more flexible than they were 24 hours ago."
The city is scrambling for creative places to house businesses, even temporarily. So far, a handful of short- and long-term leases have been signed, Mr. Harding said. The accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, for instance, will move into the 60,000-square-foot basement of the Worldwide Plaza at 49th Street and Eighth Avenue, which housed a discount movie theater. 
The cost of relocating, among other problems, is daunting. To that end, city officials are trying to seal companies' loyalties to the city by promising nebulous incentive packages, which will be shaped as officials read through the legislation passed this week by Congress that includes $20 billion to help rebuild the city.
Normally, federal aid cannot be applied to economic development. But the city is hoping that perhaps the legislation includes language that would provide for reimbursement for some revenue loss as part of the broader disaster relief theme.
The mayor has also reached out to business leaders, trying to assure them that the city will be back to normal soon. Between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. on Wednesday, he had placed calls to the heads of Amtrak, the New York Stock Exchange and other businesses, Mr. Harding said.
Mr. Giuliani was even playing real estate broker last night, offering to the first taker the space at 180 Water Street, home to a city agency. The building has 25 floors, 430,000 square feet and is "suitable for a financial institution," Mr. Giuliani said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LEGISLATION (65%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (81%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (81%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (81%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 



400 of 974 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: China Clears Last Hurdle On Path to Trade Group 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
The United States, Europe and China removed the last remaining obstacle blocking China's admission to the World Trade Organization tonight, as the Bush administration scrambled to show that its engagement in international affairs was undiminished by terrorist attacks. 
 The agreement means that China's entry to the trade body will be formalized as early as Monday and will take effect early next year. That will complete a quest that the Communist government began more than 15 years ago, when Beijing accelerated efforts to overhaul its command-and-control economy and open its market to the outside world. 
 Negotiators in Geneva agreed on Saturday morning, their time, that a dispute about the differing status of European and American insurance companies in the China market did not have to be fully resolved before China could enter the W.T.O.
Though negotiators had initially suspended talks over how to resolve the dispute after the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, Bush administration officials said they made a renewed push to finalize China's entry later in the week. 
"We're showing that the United States and Europe can work together in this environment to get China into the W.T.O. and that we're not paralyzed by this," said Robert B. Zoellick, the United State trade representative.
Mr. Zoellick and Pascal Lamy, the European trade commissioner, worked to seal the China agreement this week as part of a broader effort to lay the groundwork for an international trade summit meeting scheduled for Doha, Qatar, in early November, administration officials said.
Some experts have questioned whether the Doha meeting will take place, given the fact that it is supposed to be held in the Middle East at a time when American retaliation for the terrorist attacks may have occurred or be under way. But Mr. Zoellick said both he and his European counterpart had redoubled their efforts to make sure that meeting, if it did take place, did not dissolve into squabbles, as a similar summit meeting in Seattle did in 1999.
"It's really more important than ever that the U.S. demonstrate leadership on international economic issues even as we focus on security issues," Mr. Zoellick said.
Under the agreement on China's accession, European and American insurance companies would be granted access to China's domestic insurance market based on separate terms Europe and the United States reached with China last year. The deal between China and the United States had given a significant edge to American insurers, and an effort to reconcile those terms with Europe's agreement had cast doubt on whether China would win admission soon.
The accord appears to favor American International Group, the American insurance giant, which has special access to the China market because it is allowed to operate there without local partners.
After China enters the W.T.O., European companies could still seek the same access that American International has. But the issue is not finally resolved, meaning that Europeans may end up suing China for the rights through the trade organization's dispute-resolution process.
China also reached a final accord with Mexico this week, which was the only other remaining obstacle to joining the trade body.
President Bush is scheduled to visit China next month for a conference of Asian leaders and a state visit with President Jiang Zemin. Administration officials were determined to help China realize its goal of joining the trade body before that time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AIRLINES (64%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; INSURANCE 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (89%); PASCAL LAMY (58%) ;ZOELLICK, ROBERT B; KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); EUROPE (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); QATAR (79%) CHINA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001 

 
