

201 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; FALL RESTAURANT PREVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Is That Bali Hai Calling? The Tiki Bar Has Returned

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
THE tiki revival -- a gust of nostalgia for a time when Trader meant Vic's, not Joe's -- planted its paper umbrellas at a couple of New York bars this year. But soon it will go for the big time when the 250-seat Hurricane Club opens on Park Avenue South.
''I think we need some of the escapism, especially in an economic downturn,'' said Michael Stillman, president of Fourth Wall Restaurants, which is opening the 13,000-square-foot bar and restaurant on Sept. 13. ''All that farm-to-table stuff is serious and exhausting and too earnest. We need to have some fun.'' 
Drinks at the Hurricane Club include a frozen Peruvian pisco number with cucumber and mint; a dark rum cocktail with caramelized banana and a stick of sugar cane; one with cachaca, passion fruit and ginger; and a vodka punch for two or more served in a watermelon with mango, lime and hibiscus. They are the work of Richard Leach, the restaurant's rather dour pastry chef, not some bartender in porkpie hat and vest.
Craig Koketsu, the executive chef of the Hurricane Club as well as Fourth Wall's other restaurants, including Quality Meats and Park Avenue Summer, has a menu that includes baby back ribs and lotus root, a stone pot of Hawaiian fried rice with an egg on top that suggests bibimbap, tofu ''gnocchi'' with green curry vegetables, and miso-glazed lobster. And yes, there will be a pu-pu platter, with Samoan deviled eggs, Chinese sausage and stick rice ''arancini,'' coconut shrimp and chilies stuffed with pork sausage.
The restaurant is being designed by AvroKo, the company better known for its industrial style, Edison bulbs and exposed beams than for the lagoon lounges with barnacle and seahorse light fixtures it is installing here. ''The look will be Polynesian but updated, contemporary,'' Mr. Stillman said.
Modern tropical is also the way Julie Reiner describes Lani Kai, the restaurant-lounge she is opening Oct. 1 with Susan Fedroff, her partner in the Clover Club in Brooklyn.
''It will not be dark and heavy tiki Polynesian,'' she said, ''but lighter, like the elegant homes in Hawaii where I grew up.'' Lani Kai, named for a beach on Oahu, will be all lounge seating on two floors of what had been Tailor in SoHo.
''The drinks will rely more on fresh tropical fruits than what we do at Clover Club,'' she said. ''I'm also making Hawaiian tea and spice syrups.'' Not just rums, but gin and tequila will add the kick. She described the food as Pacific Rim, and plans to serve a range of dishes, including a pu-pu platter, small plates of tuna poke and kalua pork sliders, and, for sharing, luau-style platters of whole fried fish, and two-and-a-half-pound curry lobsters. The chef, Ray Ruiz, was previously at Tao, so there's a touch of tiki in his talent.
Correction: September 15, 2010, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Wednesday about the opening of tiki-themed restaurants in New York misspelled the name of a dish that will be served at Lani Kai. It is kalua pork sliders, not Kahlua pork sliders.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARTY TIME: The Hurricane Club's offerings will include (above) vodka punch in a watermelon (bring your friends)
rum with caramelized banana
frozen cucumber and mint
 and a rum and coconut concoction, as well as Hawaiian fried rice, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); PORK (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); PERU (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010



202 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; FALL RESTAURANT PREVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: The Proof Is in the Pasta As a New Menu Is Tested

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
IN the end, after years of planning and construction, after months of perspiration, angst and agita, it was all about the food.
Here it was, then, a dish of pasta called strozzapreti, fragrant with basil and garlic and pine nuts, prepared by the chef Jonathan Benno for a menu tasting before the opening of his new high-end establishment, Lincoln.
In the arc of this $20 million, 150-seat restaurant at Lincoln Center, the highest of high-stakes moments was about to arrive: the debut. On Sept. 24, Mr. Benno must start serving contemporary Italian food in that transparent wedge under the twisty lawn roof across from the Juilliard School.
Since the kitchen was decidedly incomplete, Nick Valenti -- the chief executive of the Patina Restaurant Group, which will operate Lincoln -- convened a tasting for five Patina executives at the chef's table in the Grand Tier, the restaurant Patina runs at the Metropolitan Opera House. 
Instead of being buttressed by his staff of 100, Mr. Benno was rattling pots and pans with his sous-chef, Andrew Lentz; his pastry chef, Richard Capizzi; and two cooks. The lone server? Paolo Novello, the general manager.
This was the 10th major assessment of possible menu offerings, and in the sweltering kitchen the tasters literally rolled up their sleeves, grasped their Dixon Ticonderoga No. 2 pencils and poised to mark sheets with categories that included flavor, eye appeal, plate presentation and originality.
Critical scrutiny attends every aspect of the full-contact realpolitik that is the creation of a high-end dining room in Manhattan -- a traditionally secretive process that has been the subject of this series of articles on the restaurant, at 142 West 65th Street.
At center stage in Lincoln's ongoing saga has been construction tumult, a Darwinian struggle for farmers' produce, and even an uproar occasioned by the very choice of its name. But to its overlords, the primacy of the menu overshadowed even the fanfare over Lincoln Center's 50th anniversary celebration, and the eclat of the first private preview of Lincoln tomorrow at a party for New York Fashion Week.
And so, on the menu at the tasting for the restaurant (where the average dinner check, with beverage, will be $110 per person) was not only the strozzapreti but also a bistecca alla Fiorentina offering 35-day dry-aged black Angus porterhouse; a caponata of eggplant, tomatoes and peppers; spigarelli broccoli with gnocchi and finferli mushrooms; as well as biscotti, sorbetto and tartufo, an ice-cream dessert.
The evaluators inhaled the perfume of the plates before sampling them and penciling comments. ''Love the texture,'' Mr. Valenti said of the pasta tossed in basil puree and served on a pesto of squash blossom, yellow squash and Champagne vinegar. ''Clean.''
The tastings were conducted at ''the only moment in the life of a restaurant when the staff has the time to explore not only the menu but also what the presentation and the flow of the meal are going to be,'' said Malcolm M. Knapp, who heads a restaurant consulting firm in Manhattan that bears his name. ''Because after the tastings, they have to knuckle down and calculate the profit margin on each dish, and the practicality of producing it in a busy kitchen.''
But in the Met's kitchen it was still very much about taste. John O'Neil, a Patina senior vice president, sampled a bit more and wrote: ''Big improvement.''
He referred to the pasta that had just been extruded from a gleaming new $3,500 Emiliomiti machine. This was, in fact, only the latest of several tasting rounds for the strozzapreti.
''I've had the yellow-squash pesto in my back pocket for a long time,'' Mr. Benno said, and during the tastings he realized ''it worked perfectly with strozzapreti tossed in basil puree.''
But at a tasting two weeks before, the pasta itself had been thin. Even watery.
Mr. Valenti was nothing but blunt. ''The pasta machine was better today,'' he said, deadpan. ''It tasted like pasta.''
Mr. Benno explained that ''I'd basically been using durum and water,'' but in working with the machine, and on advice from the manufacturer, Emilio Miti himself, Mr. Benno upgraded to a mix of durum, semolina, egg and water.
As for the caponata, Mr. Benno discerned during the tastings that it would pair well with cod cakes; his version will utilize the tail and belly of a cod in a mix with potatoes, egg and flour, pan-fried with salt and pepper.
And the very notion of offering a bistecca Fiorentina ''was a philosophical discussion,'' Mr. Benno said. ''We want to be known for the quality of our pasta and fish, but should we offer a Fiorentina in the steakhouse capital of the world? We decided yes -- but only if it could be exceptional, perfectly sourced and treated with respect. So it was a commitment.''
The pasta widget was recommended to Mr. Benno by the chef Michael White, who described it as ''the Cadillac of machines,'' adding that he'd long been using the brand at his restaurant Marea.
To Mr. White, Lincoln's tasting phase was ''a crucial part of the process,'' he said, ''when Nick gets to know the sensibility of Jonathan and his staff, and when the staff gets comfortable with the menu descriptions.'' He added: ''Developing a menu is a monumental task. It's never boilerplate.''
Mr. Benno has been scribbling down his own ideas for an Italian restaurant for years. When he was the chef de cuisine at Thomas Keller's restaurant Per Se, ''together with the team, I was given a lot of freedom,'' Mr. Benno said, ''but the underlying philosophy was that of Thomas Keller.''
''So at 40,'' he added, ''I am reinventing myself.'' In the tastings, then, has he found his own voice? ''The voice is there -- but it needs to be developed,'' he said, ''in an a la carte restaurant with more volume than Per Se, where there are things we have to learn very quickly.''
But even as the tasting proceeded, menu development was hardly the sole concern of the commandants of Lincoln. Think damask banquettes, tiles of Azul Ataija stone, Jade stoves, inspection hurdles and, most important, people.
If a free-standing restaurant on the flight path of some of the five million who visit Lincoln Center yearly might seem to be catnip to job-seekers, the truth was that finding applicants with an elevated skill level was fraught.
Mr. Benno explained that ''if you're a captain at Gramercy Tavern, or Marea, or Daniel, you're going to be reluctant to leave your job in this economy.''
And so, in the staff dragnet, Lincoln hosted ''open calls'' akin to theatrical casting scrums, and Mr. Valenti, Mr. Benno and Mr. Novello trekked up to the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., to make a fervent pitch to 30 students. Eight signed on.
They will find themselves presenting a menu annealed in tasting after tasting after tasting. But even the most indefatigable professional nibblers have their limits. And after two hours in the opera-house kitchen, the tasters were sated. So Mr. Benno sent them on their way with a sampler of Mr. Capizzi's almond, rainbow and pignoli cookies. And a zeppole or two.
''Is this a form of bribery?'' asked Fred Wolfe, president of Patina Group.
Mr. Benno smiled, then wiped his hands on his blue-and-white-striped apron, and said to his sous-chef, Mr. Lentz: ''We're getting there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LIGHTS, CAMERA: At a tasting of the menu for Lincoln, at top, Andrew Lentz, the sous-chef, sniffs the porterhouse for the bistecca Fiorentina
below, sorbetto d''Albicocche (buttermilk panna cotta, polenta cake, elderflower gelatina). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ICE CREAM (69%); FROZEN DESSERTS (64%); FASHION SHOWS (63%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



203 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Statehouse Gains Could Give G.O.P. Edge on Redistricting

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
The midterm elections are being closely watched to determine whether Republicans will have a majority in Congress for the next two years. But it is the outcome of a lower-profile battle over state legislatures that could strengthen the Republican Party for a decade.
Republicans are within reach of gaining control of eight or more chambers in state legislatures this fall, according to interviews with Republicans, Democrats and independent political analysts. That would give Republicans the power to draw more Congressional districts in their favor, since the expected gains come just as many legislatures will play a major role in the once-a-decade process of redrawing the boundaries of those districts.
Republicans said that they expect to win control of house chambers in Indiana, Ohio and Pennsylvania, and of the Wisconsin State Senate, and said that they saw at least a dozen other states where they have a reasonable chance of winning control of legislative chambers.
Democrats acknowledge that they will be fighting to preserve their slim majorities in at least 10 chambers -- including state senates in New York, New Hampshire and Nevada -- but say that they see opportunities to gain control of chambers in four other states. 
Redistricting, it has often been said, turns the traditional definition of democracy on its head: rather than allowing voters to choose their leaders, it allows leaders to choose their voters.
The new districts are supposed to reflect the population shifts measured by the census. In practice, though, officials in both parties often try to gerrymander districts to help themselves and their parties win more elections.
So both parties are working frantically to eke out victories in state legislatures, pouring resources into races that are traditionally measured by the number of doors knocked on, not the number of ads broadcast.
For Democrats, the prospect of legislative losses could not come at a worse time. Gains in the past decade have left them in control of both chambers of the legislature in 27 states, while Republicans control both chambers in only 14; eight states have divided legislatures. (One, Nebraska, has a unicameral legislature and nonpartisan elections.) Republicans are predicting that they will gain at least 10 chambers this fall, which they say would give them the power to redraw up to 25 Congressional districts.
''That will have a huge impact down the line,'' said Ed Gillespie, a former chairman of the Republican Party who now runs a 527 organization called the Republican State Leadership Committee that expects to spend $18 million this year on state elections. ''Not just on taxes, schools and roads and the important business of state government, but also in terms of representation for a decade in Congress.''
Some independent analysts suggest that the Republican surge could be even greater.
Louis Jacobson, who analyzed state legislative races for Governing magazine, rated 21 chambers now held by Democrats as ''in play,'' compared with only four held by Republicans. Larry J. Sabato, the director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia, predicted recently that Republicans could gain 8 to 12 legislative chambers. Tim Storey, a senior fellow with the National Conference of State Legislatures, said that the way the midterm election was shaping up, ''you could see Republicans easily have their best redistricting position in the modern era of redistricting.''
Many of the factors making Congressional Democrats nervous are at play in local elections as well: frustration at the continuing economic downturn is being directed at incumbents and the party in power, Republicans have seen their popularity improving in some polls, and there are indications in recent polls that Republicans are more motivated to vote than Democrats.
But Democrats warn that it would be premature to write them off. ''As Mark Twain might say, the reports of Democratic state legislators' deaths are greatly exaggerated,'' read a recent post by the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, a 527 group that expects to spend $20 million this year on legislative races.
Democrats noted that local legislative elections did not always follow the contours of national elections, citing 2004, when the Democrats won control of six more legislative chambers even as their party lost the race for president and seats in Congress.
Michael Sargeant, the campaign committee's executive director, called the Democratic-held legislatures ''the fire wall for the rest of the Democratic Party'' in drawing the lines that will help decide who controls Congress for the next decade. Mr. Sargeant said Democrats had an opportunity to gain control of House chambers in Tennessee and Texas and Senate chambers in Kentucky and Michigan.
To an extent, the Democrats may be the victims of their own success: they have more to lose, because they have made steady gains for much of the last decade. There are 4,048 Democratic state lawmakers and 3,251 Republican ones, by Mr. Storey's count.
But many Democrats are frustrated and alarmed by the prospect that they could see the gains they had made -- with legislatures and governorships -- eroded or erased just when it counts the most, before redistricting takes place.
Consider Pennsylvania. After population changes in the 2000 census cost the state two of its Congressional seats, the state's Republican governor and legislature set new, irregularly shaped districts favoring Republicans, setting off a legal battle that went to the United States Supreme Court, which upheld the new districts. Since then, Democrats have taken control of the state's House and its governorship.
Now, on the eve of redistricting, when the state is likely to lose another Congressional seat, the Democratic hold is looking tenuous. The governor, Edward G. Rendell, must leave office because of term limits, and the Republican nominee has been leading in polls in the race to succeed him.
As for the House, G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., gave the Republicans roughly a 60 percent chance of winning control.
''The Democrats are generally tarred with the brush of incumbency, and when the economy is bad and people are losing their homes, their 401(k)'s, their investments, there is a tendency to lash out at those in power,'' Mr. Rendell said in an interview. ''I think that's advantaged Republicans.''
The challenge for Democrats, the governor said, will be to capitalize on their enrollment advantage and get their voters to the polls.
In Indiana, another closely watched state, Gov. Mitch Daniels, a Republican who is sometimes mentioned as a possible presidential candidate in 2012, has made a priority of helping Republicans win control of the state's House.
Mr. Daniels said in an interview that he had personally helped to recruit more than 20 candidates, and that he would spend at least several hundred thousand dollars from his political action committee, Aiming Higher, to help them win -- largely, he said, because the Democratic-controlled House had resisted his effort to consolidate some state and local government entities, and to overhaul education in the state.
But he said that retaking the House would have an impact on redistricting as well.
''We expect and intend to have a very nonpartisan redistricting process,'' Mr. Daniels said, complaining that the Congressional districts drawn 10 years ago had favored Democrats. ''But the data tell us that any sort of fair redistricting is likely to improve Republican chances.''
Mr. Storey, of the National Conference of State Legislatures, noted that since 1902, the party of the president had lost seats in state legislatures in every midterm election but two.
And with many polls indicating that Republicans are more motivated to vote than Democrats, the coming election could give Republicans a large redistricting advantage. A big wave, Mr. Storey said, would give them the power to unilaterally draw as many as 160 Congressional districts, compared with just 40 for the Democrats.
And while Mr. Storey noted that district maps were just one factor in Congressional elections -- given the power of incumbency, fund-raising and the quality of candidates, among other elements -- ''clearly, the makeup of the district is pretty key.''

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Potential Shifts in Control of State Legislatures: Republicans have a chance of winning control of a number of state legislatures across the country, just as many will play a key role in the once-a-decade task of redrawing Congressional districts.
 State legislature seats gained or lost by the president's party in midterm elections: The president's party lost seats in state legislatures in all but two midterm elections since 1902. (Source: Tim Storey, National Conference of State Legislatures) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); REDISTRICTING (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); CENSUS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



204 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Elite or Expansionist? Soho Clubs Want to Be Both

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
WEST HOLLYWOOD, Calif. -- Nick Jones, the founder of Soho House, a chain of members-only clubs that includes an outpost here, knows about exclusivity. Last winter, after he found the New York Soho House too crowded, he cut several hundred members from the rolls, sacrificing revenue to maintain the cachet his company depends on.
But now Mr. Jones finds himself at a crossroads. At the same time that he is striving to keep his clubs exclusive, he is spending more than $100 million to expand the chain, which he started in 1995 in London. That means reaching a larger audience without diluting the Soho House name.
Nowhere is the contradiction more evident than in Miami Beach, where the Soho Beach House -- a private club grafted on to a hotel -- will open next month, with 50 guest rooms and six suites. 
Mr. Jones described the hotel as ''really a private club with bedrooms.'' He added that, by Miami Beach standards, having just 50 rooms makes it ''minute.'' At that size, he said, ''we'll be able to control everyone going through the door.''
Mr. Jones's company agreed to operate the Beach House, on an oceanfront site immediately south of the vast Fontainebleau hotel, more than four years ago. The complex, then controlled by the New York developer Ryder Properties, was going to include 60 condominiums as well as the club and the hotel.
But Mr. Jones was worried that the condominiums would not leave enough space in the building for the kinds of amenities Soho House members expect.
So after selling 80 percent of his company in 2008 to Richard Caring, the British fashion mogul, Mr. Jones bought out Ryder Properties. Then he canceled the condo portion of the project, and gave about a dozen buyers their deposits back, with interest.
His goal was to increase control over the property, even if that meant investing far more of his company's money than under the original plan. ''I had plenty of chances to get out of the deal,'' Mr. Jones said. ''I didn't want to.''
Once he was calling the shots, Mr. Jones sent the project's architect, Allan T. Shulman, back to the drawing board, asking him to expand the club and hotel into spaces once reserved for condos.
''We needed the space to put in the Soho House features,'' Mr. Shulman said. In the redesign, he said, he added a spa (under the Cowshed brand, also part of Soho House UK) and a rooftop pool, as well as what Mr. Shulman called ''an elaborate and discreet series of spaces'' for eating, drinking and socializing. Soho Beach House encompasses the former Sovereign Hotel, a landmark 1940s Art Deco building, and a new 15-story tower.
Though the facade and lobby of the Sovereign have been restored, the other interiors are entirely new. The original Sovereign had about 100 guest rooms, Mr. Shulman said; Soho Beach House, with twice the square footage, has only half that many. (The largest rooms are 1,500 square feet)
The decor will include about 140 artworks, many contributed -- that is, bartered -- by Soho House members ''as part of a food and drink program,'' Mr. Jones said.
As building plans took shape, Tim Geary, the director of membership and marketing for Soho House North America, began identifying potential members for the club. At first, he said, the rolls will be limited to 750. ''We prefer to omit a few of the most obvious candidates at the beginning than to have a list that is all-encompassing,'' he said.
But no matter how short the list, nonmembers will have access to all the club facilities if they stay in the hotel. And they will enter through the main entrance, in the Sovereign Hotel building at 4385 Collins Avenue.
At several Soho House properties in Britain, the ground-floor restaurants are open to the public, but only club members can go upstairs, Mr. Jones said. That arrangement, he said, works well. But in Miami, he said, ''it's going to be slightly challenging, because it's not as simple as upstairs and downstairs.''
Mr. Jones, 46, spoke over lunch at the West Hollywood Soho House, where he appeared to know many of the 1,000 or so members by name.
That club opened in March on the top two floors of an office building on Sunset Boulevard. It has already attracted members of Hollywood's old and new guards, including Dustin Hoffman, who hosted a screening of ''The Graduate,'' and Zac Efron, who came by to watch the N.C.A.A. basketball finals. But there are no public facilities at all, which means it is easy to control who comes and goes.
At the Soho Beach House, the price of admission will not be membership, but about $575, the lowest rate for rooms facing the Intracoastal Waterway. (Oceanfront rooms will be more.)
Mr. Jones said that he does not plan to turn anyone away but that he hopes people who book the rooms will be members -- or people who could pass for members. At another of his properties, Babington House, an inn in Somerset, England, he said, ''sometimes people arrive, and it's so obviously not for them. If they want to move to another hotel, we totally understand.''
Mr. Jones founded the original Soho House over a London restaurant in 1995. It quickly became an art and entertainment industry hangout -- Damien Hirst was an original member, Mr. Jones said -- and led to the New York club, in the meatpacking district, in 2003. The clubs, including a Berlin outpost that also opened this year, have a total of about 22,000 members. A spokesman for Soho House said the company's revenue was $94 million in 2009.
In 2008, Mr. Caring made a huge investment in Soho House, buying out 28 limited partners, including David Bowie, for $:105 million, about $161 million today. That left Mr. Jones with a 20 percent stake and the means to expand.
When Mr. Caring bought into the company, the Miami project was already under way. But construction was taking longer than Mr. Jones had hoped, which had the benefit of letting him change course.
Ryder Properties had bought the Sovereign Hotel for $25 million in 2005. Soho House paid $13 million for a portion of the property, while arranging to lease the rest from W. P. Carey, a New York lender, according to Guy Williams, chief financial officer at Soho House. Altogether, the company is spending about $100 million on the Miami project, some from a $:50 million credit line at HBOS.
Mr. Jones brought in the interior designer Martin Brudnizki, whose projects in New York include the restaurant Le Caprice, owned by Mr. Caring. For Soho Beach House, Mr. Brudnizki is looking to Miami in the 1940s as well as Latin America for influences. (Mr. Geary, the membership director, said many of the new members will be from Latin American countries.) He was asked to avoid any ostentation that might seem off-putting to potential members. ''The shiny thing doesn't do it for locals,'' Mr. Geary said.
Half a century ago, he said, people tried to sneak into the elaborate pool area of the Fontainebleau from the modest Sovereign Hotel next door. Now, he predicted, they will go the other way -- using the Fontainebleau to try to sneak into the Soho Beach House.
Had construction gone faster, the club might have opened in late 2008, as the economy was crashing. Now, Mr. Jones said, there is a chance the worst is over. ''The great thing about Miami,'' he said, ''is it takes so long to build down there, the recession will have come and gone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of the Soho Beach House in Miami, which Nick Jones, below, the founder of the Soho House chain, calls ''really a private club with bedrooms.'' Right, the bar at the Soho House in the meatpacking district in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SOHO BEACH HOUSE
CHRIS JACKSON/GETTY IMAGES
 REBECCA McALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (88%); HOTEL AMENITIES (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



205 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Rangel Hits the Streets for Votes, Finding Love but Also Aversion

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
A 20-something office worker whipped out his iPhone and asked to be photographed with him. ''Charlie Rangel!'' he said, star-struck.
An older man jabbed his finger at the Harlem lawmaker and tore into him. ''You're a crook!'' he thundered. ''I don't know how you get away with it.''
A middle-aged woman offered a hug and a kiss. ''I love you,'' she said, then let loose a crude obscenity for his foes. 
For decades, Representative Charles B. Rangel has campaigned as the all but bulletproof incumbent that he was: without urgency or worry, occasionally shaking hands at supermarkets and subway stops, but mostly on behalf of his lesser-known colleagues.
This year, everything is different: under fire for a variety of accusations of ethics violations, Mr. Rangel is trying to fend off five challengers in next Tuesday's Democratic primary. The president has urged him to step aside. And even some fellow lawmakers in New York have distanced themselves from him, skipping his 80th birthday party.
So on Tuesday morning, Mr. Rangel found himself in the unusual and humbling position of wooing a parade of morning commuters on the Upper West Side, not for an endangered fellow Democrat, but for himself.
''I need your help this time,'' he said in his signature gravely voice, extending his hand to passers-by.
For over 90 minutes, at a subway stop at 110th Street and Broadway, his long and deeply personal relationship with his district was on vivid display, as constituents expressed awe, excitement, anger and disappointment toward the 20-term congressman.
Old women greeted him with the intimacy of family. ''How are you, Charlie,'' one cooed. A husband and wife introduced themselves as ''longtime supporters.''
''We just love you,'' the wife said.
Joanne Fiore, headed to work with a friend, said, ''You are bigger than life.''
But several people acknowledged afterward that their confidence in Mr. Rangel had flagged, and that their words of encouragement would not necessarily translate into a vote for him.
Many walked right by him, some averting their eyes, others waving him off.
A few made it clear just how unhappy they have become with him. Ali Mirza, who once worked for Mr. Rangel as a page in the United States Capitol, was especially blunt. ''I can't tell you how disappointed I am in you,'' he told Mr. Rangel, who was left momentarily speechless.
After a pause, Mr. Rangel wished Mr. Mirza good luck.
''I can't say the same for you,'' he replied.
The congressman, who is renowned for his feisty, sarcastic style, at times sparred with his detractors on Tuesday. ''You should resign with grace,'' a middle-aged woman told him as she headed into the subway.
''Who's Grace?'' he shot back.
While he relishes the verbal jousting, Mr. Rangel said he understood the anger. But he insisted that it was as much about the brutal economy and an anti-incumbent mood as about his personal foibles.
''It's a rough time out there,'' he said. ''I'd be heckling, too.''
He added, with a hint of resignation: ''Voters don't have to be right. It's a two-year term. They can just be frustrated.''
The location of the campaign stop, on the border of the Upper West Side and Morningside Heights, was deliberate, and telling: To hold his seat, Mr. Rangel will need to persuade the neighborhood's progressive, well-educated and exacting voters that he remains a credible voice in Washington, despite a drumbeat of allegations. ''It's very active politically,'' he said of the area. ''You have to work it hard.''
The congressman, wearing a dark brown suit with a bright orange tie, arrived with a small entourage of campaign staff members, who handed out glossy fliers bearing his photograph. ''Charlie Rangel has been there for all of us,'' they read. ''Now we need to be there for Charlie Rangel.''
Advisers said that although Mr. Rangel did not take much pleasure in retail politics this year, he was slowly warming to it. He has been heartened by those, like Esther Blue, a technology specialist, who colorfully cursed his critics at the subway stop.
That sentiment, the congressman said, was common on the campaign trail, fueled by what he called a growing sense that he was treated unfairly. ''There is a lot of fighting back,'' he said. ''You can feel that. That's what causes that type of outburst.''
There were lighter moments on Tuesday, as Mr. Rangel turned his running commentary to the topic of commuters' clothing. ''You look great for Miami,'' he yelled to an older woman wearing a bright red, yellow and orange-patterned jacket. She grimaced and ducked into a subway stairwell.
Some of his observations were appreciated. ''Beautiful flowers,'' he told a woman carrying a bouquet of yellow roses, who smiled at him.
Others were not. ''Ni hao,'' he called to a Chinese woman, who evidently spoke perfect English, and shook her head in response.
As he has in the past, Mr. Rangel deflected talk of his troubles with a dose of humor. At one point a man offered to make him a suit. ''I referred him to the ethics committee,'' Mr. Rangel said, smiling mischievously.
After an hour of the hand-shaking, an aide asked if he was ready to leave. ''No, let's keep going,'' he said, clasping his hands.
As he turned back to the subway entrance, a middle-aged woman paused in front of Mr. Rangel and pulled him in close. ''Don't worry,'' she whispered. ''God is with you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Charles B. Rangel is not assuming his re-election, instead shaking hands to win votes for himself as he had done for others. ''I need your help this time,'' he tells constituents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); ETHICS (68%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



206 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2070 words

HEADLINE: The Immigration Crackdown Steps Into the Kitchen

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW; Toby Lyles contributed research.

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO
FOR a man facing the possibility of up to 30 years in prison, almost $4 million in fines and the government seizure of his small French restaurant here, Michel Malecot has an unusually jovial and serene air.
During lunch recently, he walked around the French Gourmet, his 45-seat restaurant, bakery and catering company in the city's Pacific Beach neighborhood, hugging his regular customers and planting a kiss on each cheek, before meandering back into the sprawling kitchen to make himself a herring baguette with butter.
''Serve this with warm potatoes,'' Mr. Malecot said, ''and c'est bon.''
An immigrant from the South of France, he came here in 1972, settling in San Diego because he said the climate reminded him of home. And now it is the knotty issue of immigration that has made him a local cause celebre, thrust him into one of the nation's most contentious debates, jeopardized his future and sent a current of fear through the $550-billion-plus restaurant industry. 
In April, Mr. Malecot, 58, was indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of illegally hiring 12 undocumented immigrants and, in what prosecutors portray as a brazen deception, continuing to employ them after learning that they were in the country illegally. He pleaded not guilty. Now, if convicted, he faces the possibility of forfeiture of the restaurant building, along with an adjacent rental property, Froggy's Bar. Legal experts say it would be an exceptionally stiff punishment, but one that could be a sign of things to come for an industry that is one of the nation's largest employers of immigrants.
''They're using a body of law intended for drug dealers and money launderers and going after an iconic bakery and philanthropic business,'' said Jot Condie, the president of the California Restaurant Association, which has 22,000 members. ''If their strategy is to get the attention of the industry, mission accomplished.''
Under a policy that went into effect in April 2009, the Obama administration is taking a much tougher stance on employers who hire illegal immigrants than any administration in decades. Enforcement agents have subjected businesses across the country to much greater scrutiny, using tactics that were almost nonexistent until two years ago. Federal officials said they expected to announce record numbers of investigations and fines by the end of the year. As of July 31, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of the Department of Homeland Security, had announced investigations of 2,073 businesses so far this year, outpacing the 1,461 conducted in all of 2009.
Restaurants are not the only businesses to fall under the searchlight. But until recently, immigration enforcement had been notoriously lax, with a kind of universal wink at kitchens filled with employees working either off the books or with false documents, government officials and industry experts say.
But that is quickly changing, based on the rising number of investigations and the penalties being sought against restaurateurs.
In June, the owner of two Maryland restaurants who pleaded guilty to hiring and harboring illegal immigrants was ordered to forfeit to the government more than $700,000 in assets -- in addition to his motorcycle -- and faces up to 10 years in prison. In November, a restaurateur in Mississippi who had pleaded guilty to hiring illegal immigrants was sentenced to a year in prison and a year of supervised release. Combined fines in the case, shared among several defendants, amount to $600,000.
Out of a total of about 12.7 million workers in the restaurant industry, an estimated 1.4 million -- both legal and illegal immigrants -- are foreign born, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. According to 2008 estimates from the Pew Hispanic Center, about 20 percent of the nearly 2.6 million chefs, head cooks and cooks are illegal immigrants. Among the 360,000 dishwashers, 28 percent are undocumented, according to the estimates.
Those numbers sounded low to a Manhattan chef and restaurateur who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he does not want to draw attention to his TriBeCa restaurant.
''We always, always hire the undocumented workers,'' he said. ''It's not just me, it's everybody in the industry. First, they are willing to do the work. Second, they are willing to learn. Third, they are not paid as well. It's an economic decision. It's less expensive to hire an undocumented person.''
While many restaurants do comply with the law, according to government officials, labor economists say immigrants are highly appealing hires because they tend to be especially loyal, stable and dependable. They are also more likely than United States citizens to work for lower wages without health insurance, sick days or paid vacations and paid breaks.
Of nine major chefs and restaurateurs asked about the government's intensified focus on employers of immigrants -- Wolfgang Puck, Stephen P. Hanson, Stephen Starr, Jeffrey Chodorow, Danny Meyer, Daniel Boulud, Rick Bayless, Rich Melman and Nick Valenti -- only Mr. Valenti's company, the Patina Restaurant Group, would comment.
In a written statement, the company said: ''Patina Restaurant Group does periodically bring in employees from other countries following all Federal Immigration laws. This is a small percentage of our workforce, for which we utilize the programs provided by the department of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, allowing us to bring in chefs and management talent from abroad, along with international students to expand their knowledge with hands on training.''
The TriBeCa restaurateur, who said he had been working in the business for more than two decades, said that about one-fourth of his employees are illegal immigrants, mostly from Mexico, Africa and South America. He said that those who provide him with Social Security numbers are paid by check. Others receive cash, which allows restaurant owners to avoid paying taxes. He insisted that he did not pay anyone less than the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.
''If they give me a Social Security number, I don't ask questions,'' he said. ''That's what people do.''
If immigration laws are fully enforced in the restaurant business, ''At the end of the day, the customer is going to end up paying for it,'' he said. ''We'll have to pay higher wages, more taxes and then we will have to charge more. The economy is not that great, so you charge more, you have fewer customers and more people going out of business.''
Barbara Coe, founder and president of the California Coalition for Immigration Reform, which advocates limiting immigration, said she has little sympathy for restaurants that hire illegal workers.
''Any restaurant that chooses to hire them deserves to go bankrupt,'' she said. ''They are padding their pockets by breaking the law.''
Some advocates for immigrants agree.
''We don't think a restaurant should exist if it doesn't pay legal wages,'' said Ted Smukler, public policy director of Interfaith Worker Justice, a workers' rights group. ''New immigrants are deathly afraid of complaining, and that makes them appealing workers for unscrupulous employers.''
At the French Gourmet, the government says that in addition to Mr. Malecot, Richard Kauffmann, a manager and pastry chef, was deeply involved in what it calls a conspiracy. Mr. Kauffmann faces similar charges, prison time and fines, and has pleaded not guilty.
Mr. Malecot opened the French Gourmet, which now has about 120 full- and part-time employees, in 1979. He married an American woman and became a United States citizen in 1985.
He is one of the city's top caterers, having won a slew of local and state awards for the business. Its wedding cakes have been listed as a ''Best of Weddings'' pick on Knot.com for several years.
But the business, whose motto is ''It's a Delicious Day at the French Gourmet!'', drew a less welcome brand of attention after Mr. Malecot catered a benefit free of charge for a veteran returning from the Iraq war in 2006. According to Mr. Malecot's lawyer, Eugene Iredale, the small dinner was held at an Air Force base, where heightened security measures and identity checks led to the discovery that one of the French Gourmet's employees, an Algerian immigrant, was working illegally. From then on, the authorities were watching.
According to the indictment, the business had already received what are known as ''no match'' letters from the Social Security Administration, saying that the Social Security numbers used by some employees were not valid. Those letters instruct employers not to take any action against the workers, but instead to resubmit valid numbers.
The indictment contends that Mr. Malecot then started paying those employees in cash, before Mr. Kauffmann and others submitted new Social Security numbers that they falsely certified as genuine. And the government says the French Gourmet went to great lengths to deceive the authorities -- leading to felony charges of harboring immigrants, or concealing their illegal status.
On May 15, 2008, the streets around the French Gourmet were shut down as about a dozen armed agents stormed into the restaurant. They arrested 12 workers, dug through papers and carted away hard drives from the office.
(Mr. Malecot was in France at the time of the raid, and charges were not filed against him until last February. He surrendered in court, without being arrested, and was released on $150,000 bail.)
Mr. Malecot's case points up one of the complexities of hiring immigrants: A federal law requires businesses to submit worker documents that ''on their face reasonably appear to be genuine,'' the law says. But fake papers are easily obtained by immigrants. To avoid being tripped up by paperwork that looks real, employers say that they are forced into the role of policing immigrants.
Government agencies now recommend that employers hire an auditing firm or train personnel to detect fraudulent documents. A growing number of states now require employers to use E-verify, a government-run online system that instantly determines the eligibility of job applicants to work in the United States. Even in states where the system is not required, industry experts said, more restaurants are using the system. The French Gourmet is now among them.
Critics, however, say that the data in the system can be wrong and that some people who are eligible to work are being turned away.
The National Restaurant Association is lobbying a deadlocked Congress for changes in immigration laws, including policies that would make it easier for undocumented workers to gain legal status.
Mr. Malecot, who spoke freely in an interview at the restaurant, said he believed that he had filed all the proper employment paperwork for the arrested employees. Those workers are now witnesses in the case against him, according to Mr. Iredale.
''Maybe you just look at this as destiny,'' Mr. Malecot said. ''I came here with nothing. I guess it's all a game. But it's definitely a blow, and it's frustrating.''
Mr. Malecot is an active philanthropist in San Diego, contributing to causes including Alzheimer's and cancer research and education to help victims of torture. His employees describe him as a father figure who has paid for their dental work and babysitting, charters a fishing boat for the annual company party and provides every employee with a week's paid vacation, extremely rare in restaurants.
Because of his financial troubles as a result of the case, he said, he can no longer afford some of these perks. The next court date is Nov. 29.
''He's very generous,'' Asuncion Gallardo, a Mexican immigrant who has cooked at the restaurant for 16 years, said in Spanish, out of earshot of Mr. Malecot. ''It's like we're all a family. We eat -- he gives us three meals a day and food to go. And then he gives out food for the poor.''
Since the indictment, Mr. Malecot said, he has lost at least $500,000 in catering jobs. Catering accounts for about 70 percent of the French Gourmet's revenues, which so far this year amount to roughly $4.5 million, Mr. Malecot said.
But longtime customers have been dining there more often to show their support, he said.
One of them, Pat Hyndman, has been eating at the French Gourmet for 10 years and said: ''My immediate reaction is this is a bunch of government nonsense. He's the most respected caterer in town. But then I realized this is much bigger than Michel.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RAIDED: Hispanic workers, above, help to prepare food in the kitchen of the French Gourmet in San Diego, left. The owner, Michel Malecot, bottom, has been charged with hiring illegal immigrants, thrusting him into the national debate on the subject. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); RESTAURANTS (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BAKERIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CATERING SERVICES (72%); INDICTMENTS (71%); GRAND JURY (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (66%); RENTAL PROPERTY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



207 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: The Bears And the State Of Housing

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Of all the uncertainties in our halting economic recovery, the housing market may be the most confusing of all.
At times, real estate seems to be in the early stages of a severe double dip. Home sales plunged in July, and some analysts are now predicting that the market will struggle for years, if not decades.
Others argue that the worst is over. As Karl Case, the eminent real estate economist (and the Case in the Case-Shiller price index), recently wrote, ''Buying a house now can make a lot of sense.''
I can't claim to clear up all the uncertainty. But I do want to suggest a framework for figuring out whether you lean bearish or less bearish: do you believe that housing is a luxury good and that societies spend more on it as they get richer? Or do you think it's more like food, clothing and other staples that account for an ever smaller share of consumer spending over time? 
If you believe housing resembles a luxury good, then you'll end up thinking house prices will rise nearly as fast as incomes in the long run and that houses today aren't terribly overvalued. If housing is a staple, though, prices will rise more slowly -- with general inflation, as food tends to.
The difference between these two views ends up being huge, and it's become the subject of an intriguing debate.
After digging into it, I come down closer to the luxury good side, which is to say the less bearish one. To me, housing does not rank with unemployment, the trade deficit, the budget deficit or consumer debt as one of the economy's biggest problems. But you may disagree.
No one doubts that prices rose roughly with incomes from 1970 to 2000. The issue is whether that period was an exception. Housing bears like Barry Ritholtz, an investment researcher and popular blogger, say it was. The government was adding new tax breaks for homeownership, and interest rates were falling. These trends won't repeat themselves, the bears say.
As evidence, they can point to a historical data series collected by Mr. Case's longtime collaborator, Robert Shiller. It suggests that house prices rose no faster than inflation for much of the last century.
The pattern makes some intuitive sense, too. As people become richer, they spend a shrinking share of their income on the basics. Think of it this way: someone who gets a big raise doesn't usually spend it on groceries. You can see how shelter seems as if it might also qualify as a staple and, like food, would account for a shrinking share of consumer spending over time. In that case, house prices should rise at about the same rate as general inflation and well below incomes.
Here's the scary thing, at least for homeowners: if this view is correct, house prices may still be overvalued by something like 30 percent. That's roughly the gap between average household income growth and inflation over the last generation.
It's also the overvaluation suggested by Mr. Shiller's historical index. Today, it is around 130, which is way down from the 2006 bubble peak of 203. But it's still far above the 1890 to 1970 average of 94.
In effect, the bears are arguing that housing was in a multidecade bubble and has now entered a multidecade slump.
The second, less bearish group of economists doesn't buy this. This group includes Mr. Case, Mark Zandi of Moody's Analytics and Tom Lawler, a Virginia economist who forecast the end of the housing boom before many others did. They say they believe that house prices rise nearly as fast, if not quite as fast, as incomes, and that real estate is no longer in a bubble.
This side can also make a case based on history. Mr. Case points out that all pre-1970 housing statistics are suspect. By necessity, Mr. Shiller's oft-cited historical index is a patchwork that relies on several sources, like Labor Department surveys. These sources happen to paint a more negative picture of past house prices than some other data.
For example, the Census Bureau has been asking people since 1940 how much they think their houses are worth, as Mr. Lawler noted in one of his newsletters. The answers suggest that house values rose faster than general inflation -- and about as fast as incomes -- not just from 1970 to 2000, but from 1940 to 1970, as well.
Likewise, Mr. Case has dug up sales records for houses in the Boston area that were built in the late 19th century and are still around. The records show prices rising 2.5 percentage points a year faster than inflation, which is just about what income has done.
Perhaps most persuasive is a statistic that Mr. Shiller sent me when I asked him about this debate. It shows that the share of consumer spending -- and, by extension, of income -- devoted to housing has not fallen over time. It has hovered around 14 or 15 percent for the last 60 years. The share of spending devoted to food, by contrast, has dropped to 13 percent, from 25 percent.
These numbers make a pretty strong argument that the post-1970 period is not one long aberration. As societies get richer, they do spend more and more on housing.
Some of this spending, Mr. Shiller notes, comes in the form of bigger, more expensive houses. These houses don't do anything to lift the value of a smaller, older house -- which is what matters to individual homeowners. But McMansions are not the only factor.
To see this, you can look at the share of consumer spending devoted to things inside houses, like furniture. As with houses, they have become fancier. But they haven't become so much fancier that they make up anywhere near as large a share of consumer spending today as in the past. That's a strong clue that the upgrading of houses themselves isn't enough to explain the increased spending on housing.
What is? The value of the underlying land. Those Boston-area houses that Mr. Case studied did not change much over time. Yet their value did.
For a house whose location has any value -- in a major city or a nearby suburb, where a builder can't simply put up a similar house down the street -- the land is a big part of the equation. Over time, Mr. Zandi says, the value of that land should grow almost as fast as the local area's economic output or, in other words, with incomes.
The best advice for homeowners and would-be buyers may be to think of a house not as an investment, first and foremost, but as a place to live. If there is a good chance you will move in the next three years or so, you should probably rent. The hassles of buying and the one-time costs are just too big. Plus, house prices are not low in most places today.
The ratio of median house price to income is about 3.4, compared with a prebubble average of about 3.2. Given the economy's weak condition and the still high number of foreclosures, prices may well fall more in the next year or two. They look especially high in places where rents are comparatively cheap, like San Diego and San Francisco. And maybe income growth will remain weak for years, holding down home-price growth.
But if you can imagine staying much longer than a few years, you should take some comfort in the fact that the bubble seems mostly deflated. Sometime soon, prices should begin rising again. They may not quite keep up with incomes, but they will probably outpace the price of food and clothing.
Now, if only it were possible to be as sanguine about the economy's other problems.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An open house at a home in San Francisco, where rents are relatively cheap compared with the price of buying. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) CHART: Housing's Big Share of the Household Budget: Even as income has risen over the years, housing has continued to account for a large portion of personal spending, while staples like food, clothing and home furnishings are now a smaller share. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); HISTORY (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); INTEREST RATES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



208 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1863 words

HEADLINE: As Teams Abandon Stadiums, The Public Is Left With the Bill

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Jo Craven McGinty and Griff Palmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It's the gift that keeps on taking. The old Giants Stadium, demolished to make way for New Meadowlands Stadium, still carries about $110 million in debt, or nearly $13 for every New Jersey resident, even though it is now a parking lot.
The financial hole was dug over decades by politicians who passed along the cost of building and fixing the stadium, and it is getting deeper. With the razing of the old stadium and the Giantsand the Jets moving into their splashy new home next door, a big source of revenue to pay down the debt has shriveled.
New Jerseyans are hardly alone in paying for stadiums that no longer exist. Residents of Seattle's King County owe more than $80 million for the Kingdome, which was razed in 2000. The story has been similar in Indianapolis and Philadelphia. In Houston, Kansas City, Mo., Memphis and Pittsburgh, residents are paying for stadiums and arenas that were abandoned by the teams they were built for.
But befitting its name, Giants Stadium is the granddaddy of phantom facilities. Taxpayers in New Jersey, already under pressure from declining local government revenues, this year will pay $35.8 million in principal and interest on the $266 million in remaining bonds for the Meadowlands Sports Complex, which opened in 1976 and includes the Izod Center and a horse racing track. Those bonds will not be paid until 2025. 
For its first decade, the complex was a success. But its fortunes faded as horse racing declined, the Nets and the Devils left for Newark, and the Jets and the Giants built their own $1.6 billion stadium next door, which will host its first National Football League regular-season game Sunday.
To offset its declining revenue, the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which runs the sports complex but not the New Meadowlands Stadium, expanded instead of contracting: building aquariums, convention centers and other facilities, issuing hundreds of millions of dollars in additional bonds.
How municipalities acquire so much debt on buildings that have been torn down or are underused illustrates the excesses of publicly financed stadiums and the almost mystical sway professional sports teams have over politicians, voters and fans.
Rather than confront teams, they have often buckled when owners -- usually threatening to move -- have demanded that the public pay for new suites, parking or arenas and stadiums.
With state and local budgets stretched by the recession, politicians are only now starting to look askance at privately held teams trying to tap the public till.
''The Meadowlands wasn't a bad idea, but rather than pay it off, they let it ride,'' said Steven Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, who has written about the perils of publicly financed stadiums. ''Politicians essentially turned a good thing into a money loser for taxpayers at exactly the wrong time.''
Paying for arenas and stadiums that are now gone or empty is a result of a trend that stretches back decades. Until the 1960s, public works were often defined as bridges, roads, sewers and so on: basic infrastructure that was used by all and was unlikely to be built by the private sector. With few exceptions, like County Stadium in Milwaukee, teams constructed their own stadiums.
As pro sports expanded into cities from coast to coast, politicians and business leaders pushed for taxpayer-financed stadiums to lure teams. To name a few, New York built Shea Stadium for the expansion Mets, Atlanta put up Fulton County Stadium to lure the Braves from Milwaukee, and Oakland built a stadium to entice the Athletics to move from Kansas City, Mo.
Soon after, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and Cincinnati built stadiums for teams already there. In some cases, cities justified the expense as a way to keep owners from moving their teams. In other cases, politicians argued that the stadiums would generate enough revenue to cover the construction cost.
Competing With New York
Politicians and business leaders in New Jersey made the same claims when they created the sports complex in the Meadowlands, with a few twists. For one, they viewed the project as a way to compete with New York, which cast a long shadow in the region. Persuading the Mara family to move the Giants to New Jersey was a coup for the state, even if the team still keeps New York in its name.
But while other cities raised or introduced taxes to pay for their stadiums, the project's chief cheerleader, Gov. William T. Cahill, promised that the racetrack would pay for itself and Giants Stadium, and that taxpayers would not be liable. In effect, the state gambled on gambling.
To ensure that there was enough money, the racetrack in the Meadowlands was allowed to keep 12 percent of each dollar bet as opposed to 5 percent at other tracks in New Jersey. That way, more cash would be available for other building projects and any excess would be sent to the state.
But Moody's Investors Service was skeptical that a racetrack in the Meadowlands could generate enough money to pay for the $300 million in bonds the Sports and Exposition Authority wanted to issue. In a report issued in 1974, Moody's said that ''the market for wagering in the New York metropolitan area'' is ''already heavily catered to.''
Fearful that their sports empire would not be built, lawmakers in New Jersey grudgingly gave their ''moral pledge'' to back the bonds.
Early Success
At first, the sports complex boomed. Pegasus, the restaurant atop the racetrack, was an instant hit. The Giants sold out regularly despite mediocre teams. The authority covered its interest and principal payments and sent $60 million in profits to the state in its first six years.
State-sponsored authorities that can raise money by issuing bonds are often formed to create projects that politicians are unable or unwilling to create themselves. But they often become victims of their own success, and the authority in the Meadowlands was no different.
''Initially, the complex had a strong economic rationale,'' said James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''But this being New Jersey, they couldn't leave well enough alone. All of a sudden, what had been a net revenue producer gradually slipped into the red.''
In 1981, as a recession eroded profits at the track, the authority built an arena that cost about $85 million, nearly twice as much as expected. The authority received a boost when the Jets moved to the Meadowlands and the short-lived United States Football League played at Giants Stadium in the middle of the 1980s.
But the casinos in Atlantic City, off-track betting in New York and state-run lotteries continued to chip away at the racetrack's take, which accounted for the bulk of the authority's income.
''By the 1980s, people realized competition had become keen for gaming,'' said Jon F. Hanson, who was the chairman of the Sports and Exposition Authority for most of that decade. Eager for new revenue, he and the authority tried to build a new stadium to lure the Yankees to New Jersey. But the authority still had $356 million in bonds to pay off, and its main source of income was under attack. From 1987 to 1989, attendance at the racetrack fell 12 percent, or about $10 million less in profits.
So, the authority asked lawmakers to return the $60 million in profits it had sent to Trenton, a request that was denied. Voters rejected a proposal to issue $185 million in stadium bonds. Charles L. Hardwick, the speaker of the Assembly at the time, said the authority needed ''better long-term planning and a cost-cutting program, not a massive infusion of state money, in order to maintain good financial health.''
Mandate Expanded
Hand-wringing aside, lawmakers in New Jersey have used the authority when it has suited their needs, as a source of jobs for their constituents or as a developer of projects like the renovation of the football stadium at Rutgers University and the construction of an aquarium in Camden, a two-hour drive from the Meadowlands.
By expanding the authority's portfolio, though, they further strained its finances. So in 1992, the state began taking the authority's debts onto its balance sheet. Because the state has retired and refinanced most of the authority's bonds, it is difficult to say precisely how much debt is tied just to Giants Stadium.
But George R. Zoffinger, the chief executive of the authority until 2007, says that there is roughly $110 million in debt on the stadium. About $75 million in debt remains for the Izod Center, which lost its two anchor tenants, the Devils and the Nets, in recent years. The rest was tied to the racetrack.
The finances of public authorities are often murky. To determine that the RCA Dome in Indianapolis, which was demolished in 2008, has $61 million in debt remaining and will not be paid off until 2021, one must sift through 700 pages of bond documents.
With more than four decades of evidence to back them up, economists almost uniformly agree that publicly financed stadiums rarely pay for themselves. The notable successes like Camden Yards in Baltimore often involve dedicated taxes or large infusions of private money. Even then, using one tax to finance a stadium can often steer spending away from other, perhaps worthier, projects.
''Stadiums are sold as enormous draws for events, but the economics are clear that they aren't helping,'' said Andrew Moylan, the director of government affairs at the National Taxpayers Union. ''It's another way to add insult to injury for taxpayers.''
No Quick Solutions
Some politicians in New Jersey applaud the Jets and the Giants for building their own stadium. But the old Giants Stadium generated about $20 million a year for the authority. Now, the agency will receive only $6.3 million in lease payments from the teams, and needs additional state subsidies.
The authority has promoted Xanadu, a privately built retail complex that has yet to open next to the Izod Center. But desperate to plug holes, the authority has spent the entire $160 million in rent payments it received from the developers. Some of the money was meant to pay off debt associated with the arena and the stadium, and was supposed to last 15 years.
During hearings in Trenton this year, Dennis Robinson, the president of the authority, said the sports complex generated tens of millions of dollars a year for the state from its facilities and in associated economic benefits. But the continued erosion of receipts at the racetrack and the loss of a football stadium have diminished the authority, which has laid off nearly half its full-time staff since 2002.
Eager to cut the state's losses, Gov. Chris Christie in July endorsed proposals to lease the Izod Center and the racetrack in the Meadowlands to outside operators. But Gov. Christie was less precise about how the state would pay off the authority's bonds, including those issued to pay for Giants Stadium.
''Believe me, I'm not unaware of the debt situation that was left here in my lap by decisions made by previous administrations,'' Gov. Christie said, speaking from the 50-yard line at New Meadowlands Stadium. ''But we're just going to have to deal with it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William T. Cahill, left, the New Jersey governor in 1971, with Wellington Mara, center, the owner of the Giants. Jon Hanson, top right, led the Sports and Exposition Authority in the 1980s, and Brendan Byrne was New Jersey's governor when the Meadowlands complex was in its heyday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEVE HOCKSTEIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
JIM CUMMINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Veterans Stadium being demolished in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL BRYANT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B17) CHARTS: Still Paying for the Demolished and the Underused: Some stadiums or arenas that have remaining debt have outlasted their high-profile tenants or have already been demolished. Figures are rounded and in millions of dollars. (Sources: Judith Grant Long, Harvard
City of Philadelphia
King County
New Jersey Sports and Exhibition Authority
New Jersey Department of the Treasury
Capital Improvement Board of Managers of Marion County Indiana
Harris County (Texas) Sports & Convention Corporation
 Sports & Exhibition Authority of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County) (B17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (95%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); POLITICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); HORSE RACING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (93%); NEW YORK JETS (57%); NEW JERSEY NETS (54%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); INDIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



209 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Magazine, 71, Highlights Its 20-Something Readers

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FOR decades, fans of soap operas have been watching the exploits of the young and the restless. Now, will the readers and advertisers of a well-known woman's magazine want to be, or reach, the young and the posh?
Glamour, published by Conde Nast, is readying a promotional campaign, aimed at advertisers as well as readers, that proclaims its coverage of fashion, relationships, women's issues and other subjects is followed closely by the ''young & posh.'' 
The expression young and posh is British, intended to convey the concept of a woman who is fashionable, chic and upscale; perhaps the closest equivalent in American English would be yuppie.
The young part is a reminder that although Conde Nast has been publishing Glamour since 1939, it is primarily aimed at women in their 20s and 30s. Media companies are striving to let potential advertisers know that consumers born after the Beatles broke up do, indeed, read magazines, whether print editions or on devices like the iPad. (The iPad app for Glamour has e-commerce features.)
To underscore the youth-focused message, Glamour can also be found online, at glamour.com and glamalert.com; on Facebook, at facebook.com/glamour; and with a triple-barreled presence on Twitter, at twitter.com/glamourdotcom, twitter.com/glamour--fashion and twitter.com/cindi--leive. (The last is for the magazine's editor in chief, Cynthia Leive, known as Cindi.)
''We're a brand,'' said William J. Wackermann, senior vice president and publishing director for Conde Nast Publications in New York, part of Advance Publications. He oversees Glamour.
The appeal of the Glamour brand is demonstrated by its support on newsstands and other magazine outlets, Mr. Wackermann said. ''We sell 500,000 to a million copies on the newsstand each month,'' Mr. Wackermann said, out of a total rate base -- the circulation guaranteed to advertisers -- of 2.25 million.
''Some magazines are like Madison Avenue,'' Mr. Wackermann said, referring to shopping on the street, in that they are ''beautiful, chic and local.''
''Some are like SoHo or the meatpacking district,'' he continued, ''hip and fabulous, but small and kind of expensive.''
And some, including Glamour, he concluded in a Goldilocks-like flourish, are ''like Fifth Avenue: big enough to do business, but chic enough to have a patina.''
Glamour is likely to end the year with a gain of about 7 percent in advertising pages compared with 2009, Mr. Wackermann estimated, helped partly by a September issue that, with an ad-page count almost 58 percent higher than the same issue a year ago, was the largest since September 1987.
In the occasionally daffy logic of the magazine world, the cover of the issue declared that it was Glamour's ''biggest issue in 20 years!'' rather than 23.
''Twenty-three seems lame; 23 seems old,'' Mr. Wackermann explained. ''Twenty sounded better, but it is 23.''
(In other words, Glamour said ''23 skidoo'' to 23. Perhaps that venerable expression led to the adjustment of the milestone number.)
Among the advertisers and brands that are new to Glamour, Mr. Wackermann listed Chanel No. 5, Gucci, Target, Ann Taylor and Louis Vuitton.
''The last two years, everyone was focused on hiding under the table,'' he said, referring to the dour economy. ''But people got through it.''
He added, ''Now, we wanted to come out with something that really positioned our brand and our reader.''
In another aspect of the campaign that is meant to play up the youthful brand identity of Glamour, readers of ads that feature images of women's fashions, like denim and leopard prints, will be invited to upload their own photographs to sections of the glamalert.com Web site. That in effect will turn the campaign into an example of user-generated content.
''This is inspired by where the energy in the fashion market is,'' Mr. Wackermann said. ''It's the consumer, it's bottom up, it's a high-low mix.''
The campaign will include ads in print, in Glamour as well as Conde Nast siblings like Allure, Brides, Vanity Fair, Vogue, W and Women's Wear Daily; ads online, on Web sites like Intermix (intermixonline.com) and glamalert.com; ads in outdoor settings like phone kiosks; and ad posters, to be given away during Fashion Week.
The campaign is being created internally at Glamour. The images are the work of Garance Dore, a fashion blogger and photographer, and depict actual Glamour readers; young, stylish celebrities; and fashion stylists. The estimated value of the campaign is about $1.5 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As part of Glamour magazine's new campaign publicizing its coverage of fashion, relationships, women's issues and other subjects, it used photographs of stylish women wearing denim and leopard prints. It also invited readers to post their own photographs to a Web site run by the magazine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); WOMEN'S MARKET (78%); WOMEN (77%); NEWSSTANDS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (67%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%)

COMPANY: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



210 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Bank Panel Nears Deal On Tighter Regulations

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
Regulators from the world's largest economies appear close to agreement on tightening rules intended to prevent future financial crises, prompting renewed warnings from the banking industry that economic growth could suffer if institutions were required to raise more capital to insulate against market shocks.
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which includes representatives from 27 countries including the United States, China and members of the European Union, met on Tuesday in Basel, Switzerland. It will present recommendations to the heads of central banks and national banking regulators at meetings beginning on Sunday. 
The proposals will then go to the Group of 20 countries when they meet in November.
After facing criticism that proposals announced in July were too easy on banks, the Basel Committee might double the amount of high-quality capital reserves that banks would be required to hold, the German newspaper Die Zeit reported, citing a copy of the proposals.
The committee may also recommend that banks be required to increase reserves even more during boom times, to as much as 16 percent of assets, so they are better prepared to withstand a collapse in confidence like the one that followed the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in 2008.
The Association of German Banks has said the new requirements could reduce lending in the country by 1 trillion euros, or $1.27 trillion, as banks struggled to raise the additional capital.
''Going too far will jeopardize economic recovery and the positive labor-market trends,'' Hans-Joachim Massenberg, the banking association's deputy general manager, said in a statement on Monday. His warnings echoed those made in recent months by other banking groups.
Others said such concerns were overblown. Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels, said American banks had been able to raise additional capital within a few months of being pressured by regulators last year to do so. ''The economic effects are going to be less dire'' than banks maintain, he said.
A study released by the Basel Committee last month argued that while tighter capital requirements might temporarily dent growth, in the longer term they would help support the global economy by reducing the risk of financial crises.
After the central bank chiefs consider the proposals on Sunday, they will be submitted to the G-20 nations, which are scheduled to meet in November in Seoul, South Korea. It will then be up to individual countries to write the regulations into law. The United States was slow to adopt the last set of regulations, known as Basel II.
Much of the debate in Basel revolves around arcane definitions of ''capital'' that banks may apply to meet regulatory requirements. For example, one issue is how much banks may count stakes in other financial institutions when calculating their capital reserves.
Mr. Veron said that the Basel Committee had achieved more than he expected, but added that rules alone would not be sufficient to prevent banks from taking on too much risk. Banks should be required to disclose much more about what kind of risk they are exposed to, he said.
''The question is how reliable and verifiable the calculation of capital will be,'' Mr. Veron said, adding that European banks had disclosed their holdings of Greek and other questionable government debt in July only under pressure from regulators. ''What is really important is to have a quantum leap in terms of the transparency of the data and numbers on which these calculations are based.''
Another issue is how quickly the new rules would take effect. Die Zeit reported that some provisions could be in place as early as 2013, with the rest phased in through 2018.
Germany has sought more time for its banks to adjust to the new rules and raise the necessary capital, Reuters reported. The country's public sector landesbanks are considered among the weakest of Europe's large institutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (95%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (57%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (51%) SWITZERLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (91%); BELGIUM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



211 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Renewed European Worry Hurts Shares

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
United States investors took their cues from overseas on Tuesday and sent shares lower amid worrying news about the European banks.
Reports about German and Irish banks and developments in other countries brought back concerns about the financial sector.
In addition, regulators from the world's largest economies appear close to agreement on tightening banking rules, prompting renewed warnings from the industry that economic growth could suffer if institutions were required to raise more capital.
In the United States, financial and consumer discretionary stocks fell more than 1 percent, dragging the broader market down. Investors searched for less risky assets, sending Treasuries, gold and currencies up. 
''Coming back from the Labor Day holiday, U.S. investors have been caught a bit off guard by the reversal of sentiment toward Europe,'' said Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy for Brown Brothers Harriman.
The FTSE 100 index in London was down 0.58 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt declined 0.60 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris fell 1.1 percent.
Markets in the United States seemed poised to continue last week's rally, propelled by a better-than-expected report on Friday on the nation's job market.
But on Tuesday, it was news from abroad that appeared to unsettle the American market, which ''never got out of the gate'' when confronted with the worries about the financial woes abroad, said Alan B. Lancz, president of Alan B. Lancz & Associates.
''That is the type of market we expect, where there is not a sustainable trend one way or another,'' he said.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 107.24 points, or 1.03 percent, to 10,340.69. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 12.67 points, or 1.15 percent, to 1,091.84, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 24.86 points, or 1.11 percent, to 2,208.89.
This week there is little economic news to provide direction, although the Federal Reserve regional report, or beige book, on Wednesday and the weekly initial jobless claims on Thursday could shed some light on the economy.
Kevin Chau, a currency strategist for IDEAglobal, pointed to worries like strikes in France and expectations that Anglo Irish Bank might have to be ''wound down.''
In addition, the Association of German Banks said that the 10 biggest lenders in Germany, including Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank, may need about 105 billion euros ($133 billion) in capital because of new regulations.
Safe-haven assets were the beneficiaries, he said.
Prices on the 10-year Treasury note rose 28/32, to 100 8/32. The yield fell to 2.59 percent, from 2.70 percent late Friday.
Concerns about European sovereign debt had surfaced earlier in the year, set off by a financial crisis in Greece, depressing stock prices globally.
''Europe has come back into the picture again,'' said Kevin H. Giddis, the executive managing director and president of fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan & Company.
''Last week it seemed like everyone had given up on the fact that we were in a deep and slow economic recovery, and had just jumped on the wagon that this is all over and to go buy stocks,'' he said.
The shares of major United States banks were lower. Citigroup fell 8 cents, to $3.83. Bank of America declined 29 cents, to $13.21.
Oracle was one of the few bright spots. Its shares rose 5.87 percent, or $1.34, to $24.26, after the company named Mark V. Hurd, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, as co-president and a director.
Mr. Hurd resigned from H.P. a month ago, after an investigation by the board into a personal relationship with a contractor turned up questionable expense reports. Shares of H.P. declined 1.04 percent, or 42 cents, to $39.92.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); US LABOR DAY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EURO (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT (52%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); ALAN B LANCZ & ASSOCIATES INC (82%); COMMERZBANK AG (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (51%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); CZB (LSE) (58%); CBK (FRA) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



212 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Campaigning Against the Establishment: An Albany Insider

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; Barclay Walsh contributed research.

 BODY:
As he wages an insurgent campaign for governor of New York, Carl P. Paladino has styled himself as the anti-establishment candidate bent on reforming a state government that he says needs someone who can ''take out the trash.''
But even as he tries to draw Tea Party support by loudly promising a slash-and-burn attack on Albany, Mr. Paladino is himself a quintessential capital insider. 
Over the years, Mr. Paladino has quietly funneled hundreds of thousands of dollars to candidates across the state through a technique that campaign finance experts say major donors have often used to mask their donations and avoid public scrutiny.
An analysis by The New York Times shows that Mr. Paladino, a self-described conservative Republican, has given money to an assortment of politicians -- including governors, state legislators and judges -- through about two dozen obscure corporate entities he helped establish.
With the entities bearing names as varied as 2468 Group, 8927 Group, JP Group and Slade Group, it would be nearly impossible for anybody reviewing campaign finance disclosure reports to know that the sources of the money are entities with ties to Mr. Paladino himself.
The contributions by Mr. Paladino -- and the opaque manner in which they have been made -- could undermine one of his core arguments as he rails against Albany's insider culture at the same time that he has actively participated in it.
The money he has given governors and state legislators is also notable because Mr. Paladino, a major real estate developer in the Buffalo region, has considerable business interests before state government.
In 2002, for example, the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki deemed one of Mr. Paladino's companies eligible for tax incentives under a program intended to encourage economic development. The tax incentives coincided with 10 donations totaling $33,000 that Mr. Paladino made to Mr. Pataki's re-election campaign that year through seven corporate entities tied to the businessman, according to a review of state records. The donations were made before and after tax incentives were granted.
Mr. Paladino also rents property to a variety of state agencies in the Buffalo area under lease agreements totaling $10 million a year, according to state records and his campaign.
Blair Horner, the legislative director for the New York Public Interest Research Group, said Mr. Paladino's pattern of donations -- small sums of money dispensed by an assortment of corporate entities -- strongly suggested that he was trying to avoid drawing attention to his donations, given the business he has before the state.
''He could have written one big check,'' Mr. Horner said. ''But making small donations through his various corporate entities is a way of evading scrutiny. As someone who has considerable business before the state, he may want to fly below the radar.''
A Paladino spokesman, Michael Caputo, denied that the contributions were intended to influence government policies in Mr. Paladino's favor, saying Mr. Paladino sought simply to contribute to candidates he favored.
Mr. Caputo also said there was no effort by Mr. Paladino to mask his contributions through the various corporate entities under his control. He explained that Mr. Paladino established numerous corporate entities with business partners and that many of the donations were made in concert with the partners. Mr. Caputo also drew a distinction between the corporate entities tied to Mr. Paladino and those that donors set up simply to give donations; he said all of Mr. Paladino's were tied to a project.
In recent weeks, Mr. Paladino has emerged as an unexpectedly strong contender for the Republican nomination, with polls showing he has narrowed the lead enjoyed by the party establishment's candidate, Rick A. Lazio, a former congressman from Long Island.
Mr. Paladino has said he is willing to spend $10 million on his campaign, while Mr. Lazio struggles with fund-raising and had less than $700,000 on hand when he reported his campaign finances in July.
On the campaign trail, Mr. Paladino has been biting in his critiques of the political establishment in Albany, arguing that lawmakers are incapable of showing independence from special interests and others who contribute to their campaigns.
''The problem with Albany is not complex,'' he said in an e-mail sent to his supporters. ''We must break the backs of the special interests and the vultures in the public employees unions who bought their rich contracts lobbying with campaign contributions.''
The Times analysis of his donations shows that he has given nearly $450,000 over the last decade, largely through corporate entities under his control. In many cases, the entities share the same address: 295 Main Street, Mr. Paladino's corporate headquarters in a historic building in downtown Buffalo.
Among other things, the analysis shows that Mr. Paladino, who holds himself out as a fiery ideologue on the campaign trail, has been highly practical in the way he has doled out money, contributing to both Democrats and Republicans.
When Mr. Pataki, a Republican, was governor, Mr. Paladino gave him more than $76,000. But Mr. Paladino quickly switched sides once Mr. Pataki, who has endorsed and is campaigning for Mr. Lazio, decided not to seek re-election.
He pumped more than $26,000 into the campaign of the leading candidate to replace Mr. Pataki in the 2006 election: Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat who was then attorney general. When Mr. Spitzer resigned in March 2008 amid a prostitution scandal, Mr. Paladino began donating money to Mr. Spitzer's successor, David A. Paterson, a Democrat, giving him a total of $10,000 that year.
Mr. Paladino has also showered money on local politicians and political organizations in his base of power in western New York, splitting his money between both parties.
He has given the Erie County Republican Party about $51,000 since 2005, according to a review of state campaign finance records. During that same period, he pumped about $15,000 into the treasury of the Erie County Democratic Party.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carl P. Paladino, a Republican running for New York governor, has promised an attack on the state capital's political culture, even as he has participated in it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE GLASSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



213 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Booster, in Primary Bid, Shifts From Shouts to Murmurs

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER; David W. Chen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When she set out to topple a popular nine-term Congressional incumbent, Reshma Saujani reveled in her background in the world of high finance, emerging as a national voice for an industry that felt besieged, blamed and battered after the banking collapse.
''I'm running on my Wall Street record, not from it,'' she said in January. 
Ms. Saujani drew high-profile backers, who gave generously to her campaign and urged her to stand up against any scapegoating of Wall Street.
But even in the financial capital that is New York, where the industry helps drive the economy and provides a sizable portion of the tax revenues, that strategy appears to be misfiring. By Tuesday, in her debate against Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, whom she is challenging in the Democratic primary, Ms. Saujani had not only muted her defense of Wall Street, but also called for tougher regulation of the industry.
And she sounded downright stung as she described the demonizing of financial executives.
''Thousands of people who work in the financial services industry live in our district,'' Ms. Saujani, 34, a former lawyer for several hedge funds, said during the debate with Ms. Maloney, 64, the veteran congresswoman for the East Side of Manhattan and parts of Queens. ''Are we all bad people? Do none of us have a right to run for office?''
As unpopular as Washington incumbents and Albany insiders have been this political season, nothing is so radioactive in the precincts of New York as the taint of Wall Street ties.
Rick A. Lazio, the leading Republican candidate for governor, has been taunted for weeks by Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, the presumptive Democratic nominee, and his allies over his post-Congressional career as a lobbyist for JPMorgan Chase, where he received a $1.3 million bonus in 2008, during the federal bailout.
''Rick Lazio made a killing as a Wall Street lobbyist while the rest of the economy burned,'' said Charlie King, director of the state Democratic Party, after Mr. Lazio released financial disclosure forms in June.
Little had changed by Aug. 25, when Mr. Lazio put out his first television advertisement, deriding Mr. Cuomo as a creature of Albany. ''It's no surprise that Lazio's ad doesn't say one word about himself or his record, because the only thing he could say is he's a Wall Street lobbyist who got a $1.3 million dollar taxpayer-funded bonus,'' said the state Democratic committee chairman, Jay Jacobs.
''Right now it's probably one of the most difficult periods to run with the embrace of Wall Street,'' said David S. Birdsell, dean of Baruch College's School of Public Affairs.
Even in Manhattan, Mr. Birdsell said: ''It's far too hard of an argument to sell. You're going against the narrative of deals done without proper scrutiny, derivatives that were undersecured, homes that were lost -- all the story lines that have become so familiar.''
Indeed, in the Democratic primary contest for state attorney general, five contenders are vying to be seen as the toughest watchdog for a banking industry whose out-of-control avarice, they suggest, drove ordinary people to the brink of disaster. ''Retirements at risk, huge undeserved bonuses, greedy bankers -- that I'll stop,'' Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky promises in one television advertisement.
The actor John Leguizamo assures viewers that Eric R. Dinallo, a former state insurance superintendent, ''led the fight to hold Wall Street accountable -- before it was cool.'' And Sean Coffey, a wealthy trial lawyer, is running advertisements proclaiming that he ''fought for thousands of investors devastated by Wall Street greed.'' In his most recent advertisement, he boasts, ''I took on Wall Street giants they said couldn't be beaten, and made them pay back billions to the people they hurt.''
Not so many months ago, Ms. Saujani's hometown boosterism for Wall Street at least seemed to put her in good company, with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Gov. David A. Paterson and former Representative Harold E. Ford Jr.
''You can assume, as she undoubtedly did,'' said Mr. Birdsell, ''that expressing sympathy with an industry that employs a large number of people in her district would be a winner.''
But Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Paterson and Mr. Ford are not running for office. Ms. Saujani, for her part, has had to withstand articles highlighting her resume, including stints with one company whose co-owner pleaded guilty to stealing nearly $300 million, a hedge fund that collapsed under bad mortgage-backed securities bets, and another whose subprime lending unit foreclosed on victims of Hurricane Katrina.
In the debate on Tuesday, Ms. Saujani showed how far she had come from her early wide-eyed Wall Street advocacy. She said the federal financial regulation legislation had not gone far enough, and faulted Ms. Maloney, who pushed through a credit-card overhaul last year, for not preventing card issuers from raising interest rates before the law went into effect.
Ms. Saujani relentlessly assailed Ms. Maloney for raising campaign donations from financial-industry lobbyists while she sat on the committee hashing out the financial bill in June.
(Called a liar several times by Ms. Saujani, Ms. Maloney, in a gaffe, insisted she had not been involved in her own fund-raisers. But she regained her footing, saying, ''I don't think my opponent would be pleased unless I didn't have any fund-raisers,'' and adding, ''I am unbought and unbossed; I am nobody's congressperson but yours.'')
But Ms. Saujani still seemed of two minds on the subject, as when she took a shot at Ms. Maloney's intellect by questioning her command of Wall Street jargon, and insisted that her own background should be counted as a political asset. ''If I were to ask Carolyn Maloney what a basis point is,'' Ms. Saujani said, ''she probably doesn't know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reshma Saujani at the debate. (A1)
 Representative Carolyn B. Maloney and her challenger, Reshma Saujani, a former hedge fund lawyer, before a debate on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); BANK FAILURES (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); BAILOUTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (88%); ANDREW CUOMO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



214 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: European Official Calls for Backing Building Projects

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
In his first State of the Union speech, Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, called Tuesday for the creation of bonds to initiate infrastructure projects and tackle unemployment.
Speaking at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, Mr. Barroso outlined the need for new types of financing for building projects, asserting that the economic recovery was ''gathering pace, albeit unevenly within the union.'' He also promised to press ahead with regulation of financial markets and to push plans to deepen the bloc's single market.
His comments come a day after President Obama laid out a $50 billion plan to modernize the transportation infrastructure of the United States. 
Mr. Barroso's speech, however, failed to generate the same amount of interest as Mr. Obama's and received a lukewarm response in Strasbourg, one of the Parliament's two homes.
Fearing a poor attendance in the chamber, senior lawmakers initially proposed to dock the allowances of those deputies who did not attend, though the idea was abandoned.
In previous years, Mr. Barroso has addressed the Parliament and outlined his work program, but this time his speech was intended to be broader to reflect the changes brought about by the union's new Lisbon Treaty.
Given the crisis that unfolded in the euro zone this year, the speech inevitably focused on the economy.
''Growth this year will be higher than initially forecast,'' Mr. Barroso said. ''The unemployment rate, while still much too high, has stopped increasing.''
In pushing the notion of European bonds, Mr. Barroso is embracing an idea championed unsuccessfully by some predecessors. For decades European officials have wanted the power to use the financial clout of the bloc to raise capital for big projects.
Mr. Barroso gave no figure for the amount of money that could be raised by his plan and, to make it a reality, he would have to win the support of all 27 governments within the European Union, several of which were likely to be hostile.
''We should also explore new sources of financing for major European infrastructure projects,'' he told deputies. ''For instance, I will propose the establishment of E.U. project bonds, together with the European Investment Bank.''
The bank raises money on international markets to lend to businesses and governments to finance specific projects.
One possibility under consideration is that the commission or the investment bank could issue project bonds to finance infrastructure projects. Alternatively they could guarantee third-party project bonds.
Officials stressed that these would be meant to bankroll specific projects, rather than to create euro bonds, which would plug the finances of member states.
Mr. Barroso also promised a ''debate without taboos'' over how to allocate European resources after 2013, suggesting that some regional aid and farm subsidies could be vulnerable. ''We need to spend our money where we get most value for it,'' he said, citing as examples energy and research and development aid.
He confirmed that the commission would push ahead with proposed financial market regulation, including a ban on types of abusive short-selling, measures against credit-default swaps, legislation on bank bonuses and credit rating agencies and plans for taxes on financial activities.
Afterward, Mr. Barroso's political opponents accused him of lack of leadership. Martin Schulz, leader of the main center-left group of deputies, the Socialists and Democrats, said Mr. Barroso had for long ''been making concessions to a Franco-German directorate'' that, he said, was dominant among the bloc's member states.
Daniel Cohn-Bendit, co-president of the Greens, said, ''You are an absent president of a Europe that badly needs a president.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jose Manuel Barroso, European Commission president, spoke Tuesday at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN-MARC LOOS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO (87%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); EUROBONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (91%)

PERSON: JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (91%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALSACE, FRANCE (93%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



215 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: HSBC Chairman Joins British Government

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Stephen K. Green is stepping down as chairman of HSBC to join the British government as minister for trade and investment, the bank said Tuesday.
Mr. Green, who had worked for HSBC for more than 28 years, including a stint as chief executive, would be responsible for promoting British business overseas, strengthening trade links with other countries and attracting foreign investment. He is to start work before the end of the year. His new position is unpaid. 
''I am delighted to appoint Stephen to this vital role,'' Prime Minister David Cameron said in a statement. ''With Stephen's experience and expertise, I know he will make an invaluable contribution towards this crucial agenda, helping to drive strong economic growth in the U.K.''
HSBC said Tuesday that it expected to appoint a successor to Mr. Green before the end of the year. Among the possible candidates is John L. Thornton, one of HSBC's nonexecutive directors and a former Goldman Sachs partner, some analysts said.
Mr. Green, 61, is the latest top executive to join the coalition government. The billionaire Philip Green, who owns the clothing retailer Topshop, was appointed last month to lead a review of government spending and find new ways to cut expenditures. John Browne, the former chief executive of BP, was hired as an adviser to improve efficiency in government departments.
Mr. Green's experience at the helm of a financial institution based in London with strong ties to Asian markets is considered an attractive asset for the government. HSBC generates more than half of its earnings from Asia and last year moved its chief executive from London to Hong Kong, where the bank was founded in 1865.
Stephen Green is considered to be among the more prudent bankers. After admitting that HSBC made a mistake by acquiring a subprime lender in the United States not long before the housing market collapsed, he repeatedly criticized large bonuses for bankers and reckless lending. This year, he published a book with the title ''Good Value: Reflections on Money, Morality and an Uncertain World.''
Mr. Green is fluent in French and German and has worked for HSBC in Hong Kong, London, New York and the Middle East.
In his new role, Mr. Green will report to the foreign secretary and the secretary for business and be seated in the House of Lords. Mr. Cameron's government is seeking to strengthen the British economic recovery by bolstering trade.
''In an increasingly competitive and international world, trade and investments are ever more critical to Britain's economic success and I am delighted to be joining the government at this exciting and challenging time,'' Mr. Green said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen K. Green, right, with Prime Minister David Cameron. Mr. Green will be promoting British business overseas. (POOL PHOTO BY SANG TAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (79%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); RETAILERS (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (51%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (92%); PHILIP GREEN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



216 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Politics on Film, But This Time Leaning Right

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- After Michael Moore screened his anti-Bush documentary ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' for Hollywood's assembled royalty at the headquarters of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences six years ago, the crowd broke out in a noisy ovation that it did not want to stop.
It has been lonelier for Ray Griggs. 
According to Mr. Griggs, some prospective crew members on his new documentary, ''I Want Your Money,'' which takes aim at President Obama's economic policies, said they would accept jobs on the condition that their names be left off the credits. Mr. Griggs suspects that a politically motivated makeup artist even tried to sabotage the movie by giving him a distinctly unflattering look.
But his film, like ''Fahrenheit'' before it, is now to be released in a heated political season. And that is at least a minor triumph for one of the less visible minorities: the Hollywood right.
Scheduled by Freestyle Releasing to open in about 500 theaters on Oct. 15, ''I Want Your Money'' is a long shot, even in the wobbly world of documentaries.
''I have no agent, no manager,'' said Mr. Griggs, a soft-spoken 36-year-old, discussing his film over coffee here last week. He added: ''I had nothing to lose. My phone is not ringing off the hook from the studios.''
By contrast, there is Davis Guggenheim's ''Waiting for Superman,'' a documentary to be released by Paramount Vantage on Sept. 24, and Alex Gibney's ''Client 9: The Rise and Fall of Eliot Spitzer,'' due from Magnolia Pictures on Nov. 5. Both films come from past Oscar winners with strong progressive credentials. Mr. Guggenheim, whose film takes on the country's education system, was honored for his environmental manifesto, ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' and Mr. Gibney for his examination of torture in the war on terror, in ''Taxi to the Dark Side.'' The new Guggenheim and Gibney films have the advantage of heavily promoted showings at the Toronto International Film Festival this month.
Mr. Griggs is best known as the filmmaker behind ''Super Capers,'' a superhero comedy that took in a few tens of thousands of dollars when Roadside Attractions released it in 2009.
Yet the trailer for ''I Want Your Money'' has grabbed more than two million views since it was first posted in early August, promising attention to a film that stands unabashedly to the right.
''This is a perfect grass-roots project, because it's hitting a nerve,'' said Paul Lauer, the founder of Motive Entertainment, a consulting firm that organized marketing for Mel Gibson's hit ''The Passion of the Christ,'' and is now working with Mr. Griggs. The plan, Mr. Lauer said, is to screen ''I Want Your Money'' in the next month for conservative opinion makers and political groups. The aim is to catch the attention of Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity or Glenn Beck, Mr. Griggs said..
The tone of the film, which Mr. Griggs directed and helped write, is a little softer than that of those three conservative commentators. Its central argument is a straightforward case for the virtues of smaller government and the futility of efforts to redistribute wealth. But its charm, if that word can apply to political documentary, comes from computer-generated animations in which bobbing-headed political figures, designed by Tom Richmond of Mad Magazine, try to school one another on the ins and outs of policy.
Animated politicians on both sides of the aisle -- Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, Sarah Palin, the older and younger George Bushes -- all take some good-natured hits. Ronald Reagan offers Mr. Obama a couple of jelly beans, but Mr. Obama figures he's already entitled to half, and so on.
Mr. Griggs narrates, with an assist from interviewees who include Steve Forbes, John Stossel and Michael Reagan. The film was self-financed for about $500,000, while a number of investors -- who are not well known or backed by political candidates or apparatus, Mr. Griggs said -- created a somewhat larger fund for prints and advertising.
Raised almost entirely in Germany until he was 17, Mr. Griggs, the son of an Air Force officer, said he learned political lessons by observing life in Europe while absorbing American culture from afar. On returning to the United States, he worked at a television station in Missouri, then began his own business, making commercials and corporate videos.
His formal introduction to politics, Mr. Griggs said, came with his work as a campaign manager, then staff member, for Rob Schaaf, a Republican in the Missouri House of Representatives. Mr. Griggs was known for whimsical campaign ads that had Mr. Schaaf talking from the bottom of a coffee cup.
Mr. Griggs said his ultimate, long-held dream was to make a film based on the story of Lucifer. More immediately, he has begun pulling together plans for a live-action version of ''The Wind in the Willows,'' with help from Weta Digital, the New Zealand studio in which Peter Jackson is a partner.
While working on those projects, however, Mr. Griggs said he became alarmed by what he saw as runaway spending in Washington, and so decided the documentary would come first.
He briefly looked for studio backing but was rebuffed.
Not everyone buys the notion that conservative Hollywood is held down by liberal bias, of course. ''It's preposterous -- I've never encountered it,'' said Douglas Urbanski, a prominent talent manager who has been a guest host on Mr. Limbaugh's program several times this year.
Even Mr. Griggs has had his Hollywood moments. While finishing his ''Super Capers'' at a postproduction site on the Warner Brothers lot in Burbank, for instance, he was entitled to use a golf cart. So he had one designed to look like Batman's mobile Tumbler from ''The Dark Knight'' and for a while, at least, was a star.
''Warner was very nice to me,'' Mr. Griggs said. ''The tour van started to change routes to see my Tumbler.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ray Griggs's political documentary ''I Want Your Money'' takes aim at President Obama's economic policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 A computer-generated animation from ''I Want Your Money,'' scheduled to be released Oct. 15. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RG ENTERTAINMENT) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); FESTIVALS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); ELIOT SPITZER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



217 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: 'Mayor for Life' Decides Not to Run in Chicago

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Mayor Richard M. Daley dropped the bomb at a routine news conference at City Hall on Tuesday. With no prelude or fanfare, Mr. Daley announced that he would not seek re-election when his term expires next year.
''Simply put, it's time,'' he said. ''Time for me. And time for Chicago to move on.'' Later, he continued: ''I've done my best. Now, I'm ready with my family to begin the next phase of our lives.''
The shock waves spread across the city -- which years ago nicknamed Mr. Daley, a Democrat, Mayor for Life -- and all the way to Washington, where the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, said earlier this year that he would like the job.
On Tuesday, Mr. Emanuel issued a statement honoring the mayor's service. He did not say whether he intended to run. (The filing deadline for the Feb. 22 election is Nov. 22.) 
For the better part of 56 years -- for better and for worse -- the Mayors Daley will have run Chicago: first, Richard J. Daley, the current mayor's father, from 1955 to 1976, when he died in office, then Richard M. Daley, from 1989 to 2011. The day after Christmas, he will become the longest-serving mayor in the history of the city, surpassing his father.
Historians may see that as a theme. The younger Daley, 68, inherited a city riven by racial strife and mired in official corruption. Even if he failed to eliminate those ills, some would say, he turned the city into an economic success story, paying particular attention to beautifying Chicago's aging core.
The younger Mr. Daley promoted the city's business, tourism, culinary and art industries in a way that positioned Chicago to compete with American cities better known for such things, like New York and San Francisco.
''If you look at other major industrial cities in the Midwest, Chicago has really reinvented itself'' over and over again, said Cindi Canary, director of the Illinois Campaign for Political Reform. ''It is a beautiful, world-class city, which is not to say it doesn't suffer from great inequities and crime, or that the Daley administration hasn't been touched by corruption. But on balance, we have been a city that has been able to thrive. There has been an urban renaissance here, and Mayor Daley played a very big role in that.''
He also tore down some of what his father built, sometimes literally. For instance, the first Mayor Daley built the high-rise public housing projects that became a model for the rest of the country. The second Mayor Daley began tearing down some of the largest projects -- considering them a failed experiment in public housing -- and many cities followed his example, too.
Despite both mayors' administrations being plagued by corruption, both are also credited with preventing Chicago from experiencing the ignominious slide that other Midwestern cities had, like Cleveland, Detroit or St. Louis. Coming out of the midcentury, Chicago was known mostly as hog butcher to the world.
Over the decades, the Daleys (and the fewer than a half-dozen intervening mayors) diversified the city, keeping it growing as comparable Rust Belt cities shrank. The elder Daley built O'Hare International Airport, securing Chicago's place as a national transportation hub in the modern era, as it had been in the age of railroads. The younger Daley expanded O'Hare, a mission that continues to this day.
''The Daley legacy is political continuity, economic development and revitalization,'' said Kent Redfield, a political scientist from the University of Illinois, Springfield. ''Having stability and continuity in local government has been a big plus in terms of developments, and there's been a strong relationship with big business and big labor. It was certainly also a hallmark of the first Daley administration, being able to bring economic interests together.''
Last fall, Mr. Daley suffered what was perhaps his most significant recent defeat not in an election but when Chicago lost its bid to host the 2016 Olympic Summer Games. He emerged globally as the city's promoter in chief and suffered a blow when Chicago was among the first cities eliminated.
Here in Chicago, the news of Mr. Daley's imminent departure was greeted with near universal shock. ''Oh, my God! We know we knew it would happen someday, but I certainly didn't wake up thinking it would be today,'' Ms. Canary said. ''It's very exciting and a little scary.''
Professor Redfield added, ''It is remarkable when you see people walk away from power.''
Perhaps the very definition of a strong mayor with almost absolute command, Mr. Daley leaves no apparent political heirs. He was widely expected to seek a seventh term without serious opposition. Few have been willing to challenge him. But now that he is stepping down, some political experts expect to see a flood of contenders.
In the recent past, several potentially strong candidates have said they would be interested in running for mayor should Mr. Daley decide not to. ''One day I would like to run for mayor of the City of Chicago,'' Mr. Emanuel, a former mayoral campaign aide, said during an April interview on ''The Charlie Rose Show.''
Thomas J. Dart, the Cook County sheriff, is also a possible candidate.
Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., who serves the South Side of Chicago and its suburbs, is known to have his eye on the post-Daley era of city politics, though Mr. Jackson has remained largely quiet since becoming entangled in the corruption trial of former Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich.
Mr. Jackson did issue a statement on Tuesday. He said Mr. Daley was leaving the city in poor fiscal shape. ''Regarding potential successors, I expect there will be numerous candidates, but only a few can mount a serious bid for mayor,'' Mr. Jackson said, not noting whether he would. Other possible contenders have said they were biding their time.
''I can't remember the last time we had a truly open seat like this,'' said State Representative John Fritchey, a Democrat who said he was considering whether to run. ''Right now, not knowing who's running, it's difficult to make the determination.''
Mr. Daley said at his news conference that although the news media and others might seek some hidden reason for his decision, there was none. ''In the end, this is a personal decision,'' he said. ''No more, no less.''
Chicagoans in political circles said they believed him.
Mr. Daley's wife, Maggie, has been suffering from breast cancer since 2002. She is a well-known and respected figure here, having done much to help beautify the city.
''In the end, family trumped politics, and we shouldn't be surprised, because that's who he is,'' said Andy Shaw, executive director of the Better Government Association, a local watchdog group.
''I think he visualized a tough re-election campaign interrupted frequently and unexpectedly by new complications in his wife's cancer fight, and that's a scenario he wanted to avoid,'' he added.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the decision by Richard M. Daley, the mayor of Chicago, not to run for re-election misstated the candidate filing deadline for the mayoral race. It is Nov. 22, not Nov. 30.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard M. Daley, who followed in his father's footsteps, leaves no apparent political heirs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)
Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago announced Tuesday that he would not run for a seventh term, a decision that sent shock waves across the state. From left, son-in-law Sean Conroy, daughter Nora, daughter Elizabeth, son Patrick, and his wife, Maggie, who has battled cancer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH HEIN/CHICAGO SUN-TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Richard J. Daley: DATES IN OFFICE: April 20, 1955, to Dec. 20, 1976 TOTAL TIME IN OFFICE: 21 years, 8 months AGE: 74 (died in office of a heart attack) LEGACY: Mixed Fueled in part by patronage, his reign included the construction of one of the country's busiest airports and one of the world's tallest skyscrapers -- but also highrise public housing projects. The festering slums lasted as symbols of racial tension long after his 1968 order that the city's police ''shoot to kill'' during the riots after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated.
 Richard M. Daley: DATES IN OFFICE: April 24, 1989, to May 16, 2011 TOTAL TIME IN OFFICE: 22 years, one month at end of term AGE: 68 LEGACY: Retooling the Machine Though he did not inherit his father's Democratic machine, the younger Daley's rule of Chicago has been imperial, pulling agencies like the public schools and the Transit Authority under his influence. He has sought to cope with Chicago's budget woes by leasing city infrastructure -- a deal to hand Midway Airport to a private operator collapsed -- and privatizing some services, exposing him to his own patronage accusations. (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); HISTORY (69%); CHRISTMAS (65%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



218 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Analyst Sees Securities Firms Slashing Jobs and Pay

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Securities firms worldwide will cut as many as 80,000 jobs in the next 18 months as revenue growth begins to slow, said Meredith Whitney, a former analyst at Oppenheimer & Company who now runs her own firm. 
The reductions, about 10 percent of current levels, will come after 2010 compensation payments, Ms. Whitney, 40, said in a report dated Aug. 31 and obtained Tuesday by Bloomberg News. The industry's payouts will be ''down dramatically,'' the report said.
Ms. Whitney started the Meredith Whitney Group in New York, after correctly predicting Citigroup's dividend cut in 2007.
''The key product drivers of Wall Street's revenues and profits over the past decade have been in a structural decline over the past three years,'' Ms. Whitney said in the report.
Barclays, the Credit Suisse Group and the Royal Bank of Scotland Group may lead a slowdown in hiring in Europe as the fixed-income trading boom fizzles out, recruiters said last month. Barclays Capital's income from trading bonds and commodities fell 40 percent in the first half amid the sovereign debt crisis. Fixed-income, currencies and commodities trading was the biggest revenue contributor at investment banks from Deutsche Bank to Goldman Sachs.
While regulatory reform, including higher capital requirements, will force some of these shifts, there will be a ''deeper secular change'' as a result of declining revenue in certain segments, Ms. Whitney wrote.
Banks around the world cut 330,000 jobs during the latest financial crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some have added employees recently as markets recovered.
While emerging markets will continue to expand, they will not do so fast enough to offset the declines in the United States and Europe, Ms. Whitney said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BONDS (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (67%); BOND MARKETS (67%); EMERGING MARKETS (66%); DEBT CRISIS (66%)

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (83%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (83%); CS (NYSE) (83%); RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

PERSON: MEREDITH WHITNEY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



219 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA OPPOSING ANY COMPROMISE ON BUSH TAX CUTS

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Wednesday will make clear that he opposes any compromise that would extend the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy beyond this year, officials said, adding a populist twist to an election-season economic package that is otherwise designed to entice support from big businesses and their Republican allies.
Mr. Obama's opposition to allowing the high-end tax cuts to remain in place for even another year or two would be the signal many Congressional Democrats have been awaiting as they prepare for a showdown with Republicans on the issue and ends speculation that the White House might be open to an extension. Democrats say only the president can rally wavering lawmakers who, amid the party's weakened poll numbers, feel increasingly vulnerable to Republican attacks if they let the top rates lapse at the end of this year as scheduled. 
It is not clear that Mr. Obama can prevail given his own diminished popularity, the tepid economic recovery and the divisions within his party. But by proposing to extend the rates for the 98 percent of households with income below $250,000 for couples and $200,000 for individuals -- and insisting that federal income tax rates in 2011 go back to their pre-2001 levels for income above those cutoffs -- he intends to cast the issue as a choice between supporting the middle class or giving breaks to the wealthy.
In a speech in Cleveland on Wednesday, Mr. Obama will also make a case for the package of roughly $180 billion in expanded business tax cuts and infrastructure spending disclosed by the White House in bits and pieces over the past few days. He would offset the cost by closing other tax breaks for multinational corporations, oil and gas companies and others.
While the speech will be centrist in its policy prescriptions other than the Bush tax cuts, Mr. Obama's language will be partisan as he seeks to sharpen the contrasts between Republicans' record and efforts by Democrats to create more jobs, aides said.
White House officials have strenuously avoided labeling the proposal a second stimulus plan, a phrase that has taken on negative political connotations since the original roughly $800 billion recovery plan and subsequent additions have failed to push unemployment down substantially.
But it would provide his party with an agenda for the home stretch of the midterm campaign -- though one with a small chance of being enacted quickly or helping the economy before Election Day if it were.
The two major pieces of the package -- expanding and making permanent a popular credit for businesses' research and experimentation expenses, and allowing them to write off the full value of new equipment purchases through 2011 -- have longstanding Republican and corporate support.
The administration calculated that the package had to be attractive to Republicans and business groups if it has any chance of passage in the short time Congress will be in session before lawmakers go home to campaign.
Politically, however, the president is, in effect, daring Republicans to oppose the plan, in that way proving Democrats' contention that they will block even their own ideas to deny Mr. Obama any victories. And by proposing business tax breaks that, according to nonpartisan analyses, would do more to stimulate the economy than extending the Bush tax rates for the wealthy, Mr. Obama hopes to buttress Democrats' opposition to extending those rates.
With its tilt toward business tax cuts, the package that Mr. Obama is proposing risks discouraging liberals in his party who want more spending for projects that provide jobs, especially for a construction industry still staggered by the collapse of the housing boom.
They are not likely to be satisfied by another of the president's proposals: to provide $50 billion immediately to build roads, air traffic control systems, waterways and more, and, for the long term, to create a national infrastructure bank. That is another bipartisan idea that would leverage federal money with state, local and private-sector investments to finance projects.
In any case, the administration acknowledges that its blueprint might not pass before Election Day, or even in the lame-duck Congress afterward.
''This is about long-term economic growth,'' Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said on Tuesday. ''This isn't about the next 60 days or the next 90 days. This is about how do we get our economy fully back on track, how do we get the millions that want to work back to work, and how do we repair the economic damage that's been going on not just over the past two years but over the past 10 years.''
Republicans' early reactions were hostile, especially to Mr. Obama's proposals to close corporate tax loopholes to offset any costs.
''If the offsets for this new package are other tax increases, then it's a nonstarter,'' Senator Charles E. Grassley, a senior Republican of Iowa, said in a statement.
Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office and an adviser to Republicans, predicted in an interview that ''nothing is going to happen between now and the election,'' except perhaps for passage of a separate administration package of tax cuts and lending for small businesses. Senate Republicans had been blocking that legislation.
Nigel Gault, chief economist for IHS/Global Insight, an economics consulting firm, said he liked both the infrastructure and R&D proposals but ''they're not going to kick-start the economy.''
Mr. Gault and other economists questioned why the administration was not proposing a major payroll tax cut to spur hiring. The White House considered the idea, officials said, but dismissed it in part because it would reduce revenues to Social Security and Medicare.
Martin Feldstein, who was economic adviser to President Ronald Reagan, said all the Bush tax cuts should be extended for two years because even letting those for the wealthy lapse would be ''a blow to a very fragile economy.''
To the chagrin of the White House, Mr. Obama's recently departed budget director, Peter R. Orszag, took the same stance on Tuesday in a column in The New York Times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (74%); JOB CREATION (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



220 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Political Ties Shielded Bank In Afghanistan

BYLINE: By ADAM B. ELLICK and DEXTER FILKINS; Adam B. Ellick reported from Kabul, and Dexter Filkins from Istanbul.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- In early 2009, as President Hamid Karzai scanned the landscape for potential partners to run in his re-election bid, he was approached from an unusual corner: a bank.
The president's brother, Mahmoud, and another Afghan businessman, Haseen Fahim, were shareholders in Kabul Bank, one of the freewheeling financial institutions that had sprung up over the past decade since the Taliban's fall.
According to Afghan officials and businessmen in Kabul, Mahmoud Karzai and Mr. Fahim recommended Mr. Fahim's brother, Gen. Muhammad Qasim Fahim, to become the president's running mate.
President Karzai agreed, and in a stroke co-opted his ethnic Tajik opposition and placated an old political foe with a checkered record on human rights and corruption. After the deal, Kabul Bank poured millions into Mr. Karzai's re-election campaign, Afghan officials said. Mahmoud Karzai and Haseen Fahim, drawing on Kabul Bank's resources, were able to enrich their families aided by tens of millions of dollars in loans. 
Now, Kabul Bank sits at the center of a financial crisis that has exposed the shadowy workings of the country's business and political elite, and how such connections shielded the bank from scrutiny. The panic surrounding Kabul Bank is threatening to pull down the Afghan banking system and has drawn in the United States. And it is driving a wedge between the Fahims and the Karzais, the two Afghan political families that benefited most. Now, the financial-familial arrangement is teetering on the edge of collapse.
''The brothers orchestrated the political deal to serve their business interests,'' said a prominent Afghan businessman in Kabul who, like virtually everyone interviewed for this article, spoke only on condition of anonymity. ''Fahim became vice president, and the bank financed Karzai's re-election.
''In Kabul, politics is all about money,'' he said. ''It's the same thing.''
In an interview, Mahmoud Karzai confirmed that he and Haseen Fahim tried to persuade President Karzai and General Fahim to reunite as running mates, but that there were many other Afghans who did as well.
Mahmoud Karzai said his backing of General Fahim had nothing to do with the fact that he and the future vice president's brother were business partners.
''Yes, I recommended him,'' Mr. Karzai said of General Fahim. ''He is a sober man, and he is very brave.''
Haseen Fahim, reached by telephone in Germany, where General Fahim is undergoing medical treatment, declined to comment for this article. A spokesman for President Karzai did not answer requests for comment.
The troubles surrounding Kabul Bank, which Afghan and American officials have been struggling to contain, threaten to strain the Karzai-Fahim alliance. As President Karzai considers measures to support Kabul Bank, and possibly use public funds to bail it out, he must consider the possibility that doing so will open him to accusations of political favoritism.
''There is pressure on Vice President Fahim to bail out the bank because he does not want to lose his brother's investments,'' said an Afghan political leader in Kabul who opposes President Karzai. ''If the president does this, it's proof that his government is corrupt.''
Muhammad Qasim Fahim -- also known as Marshal Fahim -- was an unlikely candidate to become President Karzai's running mate in 2009. He was best known as one of the senior military commanders of Ahmed Shah Massoud, the legendary anti-Taliban commander who was killed by assassins from Al Qaeda in 2001. With Mr. Massoud's death, General Fahim stepped to the fore.
As the Taliban were being routed from Kabul in 2001, General Fahim was chosen by a gathering of Afghan leaders in Bonn, Germany, to be President Karzai's vice president and defense minister. But the relationship was tense at best, Afghan political leaders in Kabul say, because the two men were so different. President Karzai, an educated ethnic Pashtun, had virtually no military experience. General Fahim was a Tajik warlord with little formal schooling.
The two men also had a past. In the early 1990s, during the tumultuous years of the Afghan civil war, Hamid Karzai was arrested and detained by the Afghan intelligence service -- then being run by General Fahim. Mr. Karzai was released, but only after a rocket struck the jail where he was being held.
General Fahim is also suspected of involvement in serious human rights violations during the 1990s, according to several advocacy groups. In particular, he was a key commander during the Ashfar massacre in 1992 in Kabul, when an estimated 800 ethnic Hazaras were killed and raped.
In 2004, as Hamid Karzai prepared to run for president, he dropped General Fahim from his ticket, at the urging of Western allies troubled by his past. General Fahim was devastated by the move, Afghan political figures say.
Over the next several years, during President Karzai's first term, Kabul Bank emerged as one of the country's principal private financial institutions, with Haseen Fahim as a major shareholder. Initially, Mahmoud Karzai, the president's brother, had no stake in the bank.
That changed at least three years ago, when the bank's leaders, including Haseen Fahim, decided to lend Mahmoud Karzai at least $5 million in order to enable him to take an ownership stake in the bank. In the interview, Mr. Karzai said he thought there was nothing unusual about being lent such a large sum of money by a bank to buy shares in that bank. He said it had nothing to do with the fact that his brother was the president.
''This is the case for everyone who is a partner in the bank,'' he said.
Mr. Karzai said that his 500 shares of bank stock -- equaling about 7 percent of all the company shares -- had paid no dividends to date. All of the bank's profits have stayed in the bank, he said.
Another Afghan political figure, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the bank's directors gave Mahmoud Karzai shares in Kabul Bank to gain the protection of the president.
''In Afghanistan, you cannot become a successful business if you are not linked to the political caste,'' said the Afghan political leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''The only way to get contracts and protection is to have support in the political system, and that is the reason why these two guys were able to get shares in Kabul Bank. They gave Mahmoud a loan of $5 million. That was political survivalism. They knew they needed a Karzai.''
Mahmoud Karzai has profited directly from his relationship with Kabul Bank. He and Haseen Fahim were part of a group of investors who borrowed $14 million from Kabul Bank to start Afghan Cement.
In the interview, Mr. Karzai confirmed this transaction.
In 2007, Mr. Karzai took out a loan from the bank to buy a villa on the exclusive island resort of Palm Jumeria in the United Arab Emirates for $1.9 million, according to a report in The National, a leading newspaper there. Eight months later, he sold the villa for $2.7 million, for a profit of $800,000.
In an interview, Mr. Karzai said he repaid the loan in full.
For his part, Haseen Fahim has taken out $92 million in loans for various projects, Afghan banking officials say. The officials say those loans have not been repaid.
In the interview, Mr. Karzai said that neither he nor Mr. Fahim had any say in where Kabul Bank invested. Those decisions, he said, were made exclusively by the bank's two largest shareholders, Sherkhan Farnood and Khalilullah Frozi. According to Afghan bank regulators and American officials, the bank made risky investments, including ones in the Dubai real estate market that collapsed in 2008, as well as questionable loans that skirted collateral and deposit requirements. These troubles helped precipitate the recent collapse.
''We were silent partners,'' Mr. Karzai said.
Mr. Farnood declined to comment, and Mr. Frozi could not be reached for comment.
A former Afghan official, who knows both Mahmoud Karzai and Haseen Fahim, said the two men began pushing General Fahim as a vice-presidential choice in meetings with the president.
''Mahmoud brought the message from Karzai to Fahim, and a couple of meetings took place,'' the former Afghan official said. ''In every meeting, Karzai said, 'It was a big mistake, and I want to make it up to you.' And these meetings were facilitated by the brothers.''
The former Afghan official said both men regarded it as important for the bank to secure a political ally in the presidential palace.
''The issue is how to protect the business,'' the former Afghan official said. ''And the two brothers cannot only have protection for their businesses, but they can flourish and they did flourish afterwards.''
According to Afghan officials, Kabul Bank's dealings went astray sometime after that. The bank recently posted losses of at least $300 million, prompting officials at the Central Bank to remove Mr. Farnood and Mr. Frozi as its top executives. The assets of the bank's major shareholders, including Mahmoud Karzai's, have been frozen.
''From one side, Kabul Bank looked like a success story,'' the former Afghan official said. ''But you see deep flaws in it that were covered because of the political allies at the top.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A guard on Monday at the Central Bank offices in Kabul, Afghanistan, under a portrait of the bank governor, Abdul Qadir Fitrat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSTAFA QURAISHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, right, with Gen. Muhammad Qasim Fahim, his first vice president, in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSADEQ SADEQ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TALIBAN (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (97%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



221 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; LETTER FROM CONNECTICUT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Senate Hopefuls Focus on a Town of Independents

BYLINE: By PAUL BASS

 BODY:
NEW HAVEN -- The people in nearby East Haven are accustomed to seeing sandpipers, seagulls and ducks touching down in their town on Long Island Sound. This year they have come to recognize a new breed of visitor: candidates for United States Senate.
Richard Blumenthal, the Democrat seeking to win the open seat being vacated by the retiring Senator Christopher J. Dodd, held his statewide general election campaign kickoff in East Haven, at the Village of Mariner's Point condos overlooking the Sound, rather than in next-door New Haven, which has four times the population and is overrun with Democrats. Three weeks earlier, he had held another campaign event in town, at the East Haven Senior Center. (Unfortunately for the campaign, many of the center's regulars were in Rhode Island that day at a lobster bake.)
His Republican opponent, Linda E. McMahon, opened her south-central Connecticut campaign headquarters opposite the East Haven Town Green on Hemingway Avenue -- even though registered Democrats in East Haven (unlike, say, nearby Madison) outnumber registered Republicans by more than 2 to 1. 
All of this political attention can be explained in one word: independents. East Haven is swimming in them (the kind who are called small-i independents because they registered to vote without affiliating with any party, not the kind who have joined the newly formed state Independent Party). And just like other candidates across the country, those in Connecticut's United States Senate race are wooing unaffiliated voters, in the hope that they can capture their support and ride it into Washington in January. ''The way the independents go is the way the election's going to go,'' said Ed Patru, Ms. McMahon's spokesman.
Independents make up a substantial plurality in blue-collar East Haven: 47.6 percent of the town's registered voters are unaffiliated, compared with 36.7 percent who are Democrats and 15.4 percent who are Republicans. The town alternates between electing Democratic and Republican mayors.
In that way, East Haven is much like Connecticut. At last count, the state had 914,893 unaffiliated voters, 792,934 Democrats and only 433, 057 Republicans. While Connecticut these days is blue on national pundits' maps, it has actually been turning steadily purple, a trend Joseph I. Lieberman recognized long before he won re-election to the Senate as an independent in 2006.
East Haven is largely a bedroom community, with a small New England town center, village green, 1774 stone church and farms to the north. It was a magnet for Italian-American families who, after World War II, left New Haven to buy, and in many cases build, their first homes. (The town has one of the highest concentrations of Italian-Americans in the country.) A recent influx of Hispanic newcomers has led to some racial tensions.
Like Connecticut at large, the town voted for the Republicans John G. Rowland and M. Jodi Rell for governor in 2002 and 2006; Senator Lieberman, who ran as an Independent in 2006; and Barack Obama, a Democrat, for president in 2008.
Its population is just 29,000. But, said the former state Republican Party chairman, Chris DePino, who lives on the East Haven waterfront, whoever wins East Haven ''usually wins the state.''
Nationally, independents determined the outcomes of the elections in 2006 and 2008, when they threw their weight behind Democrats. This year the edge seems to be going to Republicans, said Gary Jacobson, a political science professor at University of California-San Diego who writes books on Congressional elections. That trend presumably stems from voter ''anger'' over the economy, and unhappiness with President Obama and Congress.
Candidates are positioning themselves to tap into those emotions. Ms. McMahon has emphasized her status as an ''outsider'' -- a businesswoman who never ran for public office before. While seeking the support of Connecticut's Tea Party and appealing to conservatives on economic issues (like preserving all the Bush tax cuts), she has also come out for abortion rights, gay rights and embryonic stem cell research. That would fit with the depiction of voters in independent redoubts like East Haven, whom Mayor April Capone Almon describes as fiscally conservative and socially moderate.
After the surprise victory in January by the Republican Scott Brown in the Massachusetts special election for United States Senate, Mr. Blumenthal, a lifelong moderate-to-liberal Democrat, started talking about how angry he is about the ways of Washington. He also joined the Republican chorus opposing a civilian trial for a person accused of being a 9/11 plotter.
He said that President Obama might not want to visit Connecticut to help his campaign because the two had so many policy disagreements. (Now that Ms. McMahon has risen in the polls, Mr. Blumenthal welcomed Mr. Obama's plan to headline an in-state fund-raiser for him on Sept. 16.)
Mr. Blumenthal may be misreading the Massachusetts vote, Mr. Jacobson said. ''Scott Brown's victory partly depended on the fact that he had a weak opponent,'' he said. Usually the region leans other ways. ''The New England independents tend to be moderate to liberal. That's why there are few Republican congressmen or senators in that part of the world.''
Still, Mr. Jacobson said, ''This is not a good year to be a Democrat.''
From Mr. DePino's perch by East Haven's waterfront, the candidates look a lot like the ducks, he said: ''They show up one at a time. They look for fish to eat, or in this case voters to sway. You don't see them again for a while. Then they show up in a different part of the beach.''
Darleen Hood, who has lived in East Haven for 34 years and runs the town library's circulation desk, said the parade of candidates has surprised her: ''We're not a big city.''
But, she added: ''Just because they make themselves visible doesn't mean they'll do their jobs well. Just because they make time for you before an election -- afterwards, just try to get in touch with them!''
Parse this: What does Mr. Blumenthal think about the community center and mosque planned for Lower Manhattan? His opinion was clear and strong about the decision to try Khalid Shaikh Muhammed in federal court in New York City. But the statement his campaign released about the mosque controversy left some confusion about where he stands: ''This issue is highly sensitive and deeply personal for many people in Connecticut, New York and around the country. While Dick believes this issue should be decided at the local level, he hopes that local leaders will make the decision after reviewing all factors, and that they will give serious consideration to the wishes of those who were directly affected by the 9/11 tragedy.'' Ms. McMahon came out against the proposal.
Paging Doonesbury: East Haven voters -- voters, period - may not see much of one candidate this fall: Charles Pillsbury, the newly anointed Green Party challenger to Representative Rosa L. DeLauro, a Democrat and a 10-term incumbent. Mr. Pillsbury, a peace advocate and a model for his Yale roommate Garry Trudeau's comic strip hero, captured 5 percent of the vote when he last ran against Ms. DeLauro in 2002. That took too much work, he said. He is running again because no one else in the party would, but this time, he said, he plans to limit his campaign appearances. His goal is modest: 1 percent to hold a ballot line for the party. ''Mine's a symbolic race,'' he told a reporter for The New Haven Independent, Thomas MacMillan. Ms. DeLauro does have an energetic Republican challenger, Jerry Labriola Jr. He held a ''Rosa retirement'' fund-raiser last week -- on the beach in East Haven.
Paul Bass edits The New Haven Independent (www.newhavenindependent.org).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



222 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Bedbugs Bad for Business? Depends on the Business

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
Recent reports that bedbugs have infiltrated office buildings, movie theaters and stores in New York did not come as a surprise to Wes Tyler, general manager of the Chancellor Hotel on Union Square in San Francisco.
''Short of putting a bedbug-sniffing beagle at your door to check everyone before they come in, you're going to get bedbugs,'' he said. ''Dealing with them is the cost of doing business these days.''
An employee first discovered a bedbug in the 137-room hotel in 2003, and Mr. Tyler has since instituted a comprehensive bedbug detection program to find the blood-sucking insects before a guest does. For starters, Mr. Tyler created a position called ''bedbug technician'' -- an employee whose sole job is to go from room to room checking for bedbugs. There is also a bedbug bounty of $10 paid to any employee who finds one.
If a bedbug is found, the room and all adjacent rooms are taken out of service for up to five days while they are steam-cleaned and chemically treated to eliminate the bugs and their eggs. The mattresses in the rooms are also discarded. The total cost for each room is $2,500, including lost bookings. 
''It sounds like a lot of money, but the value of a good reputation is infinite,'' Mr. Tyler said. ''Your biggest fear is that someone will get bitten and post something about it on an online travel site, and that'd be a killer.''
Bedbugs used to be solely a residential problem, but they are showing up in commercial settings, and not just in places with beds like hotels, nursing homes and apartment complexes. Increasingly, pest control companies report finding bedbugs in office buildings, movie theaters, clothing stores, food plants, factories and even airplanes. For the affected businesses, the expense can run into the hundreds of thousands of dollars. For the companies that deal with the scourge, it is a bonanza, with business doubling and tripling.
The costs of coping with bedbugs are significant, and they are not covered by most insurance policies because they are seen as a maintenance issue. Hiring bedbug-sniffing dogs, which is considered the most effective detection technique, costs about $250 for a 1,200-square-foot retail store and as much as $10,000 for a million-square-foot department store.
''To stay ahead of bedbugs, I recommend having the dogs come through quarterly,'' said Pepe Peruyero, chief executive of J&K Canine Academy in High Springs, Fla., which trains bedbug-sniffing dogs and offers inspections for large buildings like department stores and school dormitories. However, he added, many customers cannot afford it and instead choose to rely on the vigilance of employees after an initial dog check comes up clean.
Eliminating infestations is also costly, ranging from $750 for a few rooms in an office building to $70,000 for a large apartment complex. And that is just for the application of the cocktail of pesticides that kills bedbugs. It costs an additional 40 percent for the gold standard regimen of placing all the contents of an office or retail space into a heat chamber -- bedbugs die at 120 degrees -- and then spraying pesticides in the temporarily empty rooms.
''It takes about four to seven hours per room'' for the combination heat and pesticide procedure and a couple of hours on three separate occasions if using pesticides alone, said Judy Black, technical director for the Steritech Group, based in Charlotte, N.C., which provides pest control and other quality control services to commercial customers. ''Getting rid of bedbugs is not quick or easy.''
Businesses lose money when they have to interrupt operations. In addition, they may have to destroy bedbug-infested merchandise. Abercrombie & Fitch, for example, had to close two of its stores in New York in July, one for four business days and another for five, to deal with bedbug infestations. A representative confirmed disposing of merchandise but declined to comment on the cost.
The managements of the Empire State Building and the AMC Theater chain were similarly tightlipped about the cost of dealing with recent bedbug infestations.
''Nobody wants to talk about this even though it's happening everywhere,'' said Ron Harrison, director of technical services for Orkin, a pest control company based in Atlanta, whose commercial business has more than tripled since 2008. ''I spoke at the Mobile, Ala., chapter of the National Apartment Association and asked for a show of hands of who had experienced problems with bedbugs, and not a single hand went up, and right there in front of me were three of our customers who I know had us out to treat for them.''
The silence, of course, is to avoid the stigma of an infestation. Even if businesses manage to avoid media attention, they may end up on one of several Web sites like bedbugregistry.com and bedbugreports.com, which encourage people to report hotels, apartment complexes, offices and retailers where they saw or were bitten by bed bugs.
''It's been nonstop drama dealing with hotels disputing claims,'' said Maciej Ceglowski, a computer programmer in San Francisco who started bedbugregistry.com in November 2006 after he was bitten by bedbugs in a local hotel. ''Everyone is scared of being publicly outed and losing business.''
There is also a real fear of liability. Bedbug-related lawsuits have been increasing since 2003, and several lawyers now advertise themselves as specialists in such litigation. Typical is a recent case filed against Aaron's Sales and Lease in Norristown, Pa., by a woman who contends furniture she bought there had bedbugs. In court documents, she said she wanted at least $50,000 in compensation because the bedbugs not only gave her itchy welts but also caused her to lose her hair and her job as an attendant at a nursing home.
''Most bedbug suits are settled out of court for less than $5,000, but I've seen damages go as high as six figures,'' said Christian Hardigree, associate professor at the William F. Harrah College of Hotel Administration at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and a lawyer who has consulted on bedbug cases involving hotels, cruise ships, movie theaters and nursing homes. ''It can be a nightmare for businesses because a lot of claimants in these cases are treating the litigation system like a lottery and are going after the big win.''
In addition to personal injury law firms, other businesses benefiting from the bedbug scourge include Protect-A-Bed, based in Chicago, which makes mattress encasements to keep out mites and bedbugs. The company developed the product in 2004 and had sales of $10 million last year, twice as much as in the previous year, according to James Bell, the company's chief executive. He predicts an even larger jump in sales this year. ''The response has been enormous,'' he said.
Bedbugs gave Linda Develasco of Des Plaines, Ill., a new career when she was laid off from her job as a new-accounts manager at Verizon two years ago. Having learned about bedbugs in the hospitality industry from her fiance, who was general manager of a hotel, she bought a bedbug-sniffing beagle named Scooby for $9,700. She recouped the expense within three months by doing one to three inspections each week. ''He was worth every penny,'' said Ms. Develasco, who had been doing mostly residential work but within the last week began inspecting office buildings, retail stores and movie theaters. ''It's been crazy.''
Exterminators are also enjoying a windfall after several years of declining revenue as customers cut back on pest control treatments to save money in the tight economy.
''I just got a $60,000 contract to take care of bedbugs in an apartment complex,'' Tony Esposito, owner of the Bug Reaper, a pest control company in Katy, Tex., shouted into his cellphone as he drove to investigate another bedbug complaint in nearby Houston. ''I had to pull my truck over and do a happy dance.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about the spread of bedbugs referred incorrectly in some copies to the founding of bedbugregistry.com, a Web site that reports infestations. It was started in November 2006, not this past November.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jonell Bolivar uses steam to fight bedbugs at the Chancellor Hotel in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Scooby's nose finds bedbugs. Linda Develasco said she bought him for $9,700 and made that back in three months of inspections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 If a bug is found at the Chancellor Hotel in San Francisco, that room and those next to it are closed, steam-cleaned and chemically treated, at a cost of $2,500 each, including lost bookings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BED BUGS (96%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DOGS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (70%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (63%); NURSING HOMES (63%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



223 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3223 words

HEADLINE: On Clean Energy, China Skirts Rules

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
CHANGSHA, China -- Until very recently, Hunan Province was known mainly for lip-searing spicy food, smoggy cities and destitute pig farmers. Mao was born in a village on the outskirts of Changsha, the provincial capital here in south-central China.
Now, Changsha and two adjacent cities are emerging as a center of clean energy manufacturing. They are churning out solar panels for the American and European markets, developing new equipment to manufacture the panels and branching into turbines that generate electricity from wind. By contrast, clean energy companies in the United States and Europe are struggling. Some have started cutting jobs and moving operations to China in ventures with local partners.
The booming Chinese clean energy sector, now more than a million jobs strong, is quickly coming to dominate the production of technologies essential to slowing global warming and other forms of air pollution. Such technologies are needed to assure adequate energy as the world's population grows by nearly a third, to nine billion people by the middle of the century, while oil and coal reserves dwindle.
But much of China's clean energy success lies in aggressive government policies that help this crucial export industry in ways most other governments do not. These measures risk breaking international rules to which China and almost all other nations subscribe, according to some trade experts interviewed by The New York Times. 
A visit to one of Changsha's newest success stories offers an example of the government's methods. Hunan Sunzone Optoelectronics, a two-year-old company, makes solar panels and ships close to 95 percent of them to Europe. Now it is opening sales offices in New York, Chicago and Los Angeles in preparation for a push into the American market next February.
To help Sunzone, the municipal government transferred to the company 22 acres of valuable urban land close to downtown at a bargain-basement price. That reduced the company's costs and greatly increased its worth and attractiveness to investors.
Meanwhile, a state bank is preparing to lend to the company at a low interest rate, and the provincial government is sweetening the deal by reimbursing the company for most of the interest payments, to help Sunzone double its production capacity.
Heavily subsidized land and loans for an exporter like Sunzone are the rule, not the exception, for clean energy businesses in Changsha and across China, Chinese executives said in interviews over the last three months.
But this kind of help violates World Trade Organization rules banning virtually all subsidies to exporters, and could be successfully challenged at the agency's tribunals in Geneva, said Charlene Barshefsky, who was the United States trade representative during the second Clinton administration and negotiated the terms of China's entry to the organization in 2001.
If the country with the subsidies fails to remove them, other countries can retaliate by imposing steep tariffs on imports from that country. But multinational companies and trade associations in the clean energy business, as in many other industries, have been wary of filing trade cases, fearing Chinese officials' reputation for retaliating against joint ventures in their country and potentially denying market access to any company that takes sides against China.
W.T.O. rules allow countries to subsidize goods and services in their home markets, as long as those subsidies do not discriminate against imports. But the rules prohibit export subsidies, to prevent governments from trying to help their companies gain in world markets.
The W.T.O. also requires countries to declare all national, state and local subsidies every two years, so that if one country's exports surge suspiciously, other countries' trade officials can easily check to see if that product is being subsidized.
But China has virtually ignored the requirement since joining the W.T.O. Contending that it is still a developing country struggling to understand its commitments, China has filed just one list of subsidies, which were in place between 2001 and 2004. And that one list covered only central government policies while omitting local or provincial subsidies.
The Chinese mission to the W.T.O., which is part of China's commerce ministry, would not comment for this article. After reading questions The New York Times submitted by fax last week, mission officials declined to respond, saying that any comments might affect China's standing in other trade disputes.
Sunzone and other Chinese clean energy companies also benefit from the fact that the government spends $1 billion a day intervening in the currency markets so that Chinese exports become more affordable in foreign markets. Systematic intervention in currency markets to obtain an advantage in trade violates the rules of the International Monetary Fund, of which China is a member, although the I.M.F. has little power to punish violators.
Chinese wind and solar power manufacturers further benefit from the government's imposition of sharp reductions this summer in exports of raw materials, known as rare earths, that are crucial for solar panels and wind turbines. China mines almost all of the world's rare earths. W.T.O. rules ban most export restrictions.
Of course, China's success in clean energy also stems from assets enjoyed by many of the nation's industries: low labor costs, expanding universities that groom lots of engineering talent, inexpensive construction and ever-improving transportation and telecommunications networks.
For example, engineers with freshly issued bachelor's degrees can be found here in Hunan Province for a salary of only about $2,640 a year -- not significantly more than blue-collar workers with vocational school degrees can make. But the fuel propelling clean energy companies in China lies in advantages provided by the government, executives say.
Other countries also try to help their clean energy industries, too, but not to the extent that China does -- and not, so far at least, to the point of potentially running afoul of W.T.O. rules.
No doubt China's aggressive tactics are making clean energy more affordable. Solar panel prices have dropped by nearly half in the last two years, and wind turbine prices have fallen by a quarter -- partly because of the global financial crisis but mainly because of China's rapid expansion in these sectors and the accompanying economies of scale. Large Chinese wind turbines now sell for about $685,000 per megawatt of capacity, while Western wind turbines cost $850,000 a megawatt.
The question is whether China is building this industry in ways that are unfair to overseas competitors and make other nations overly dependent on a Chinese industry whose approach to the business may not be economically or politically sustainable.
Because China's clean energy industry has relied so heavily on land deals and cheap state-supported loans, the industry could be vulnerable if China's real estate bubble bursts, or if the banks' loose lending creates financial problems of the sort that have plagued Western financial markets in recent years.
Other countries may also become less enthusiastic about subsidizing renewable energy if it means importing more goods from China instead of creating jobs at home.
The rapid rise of China's solar and wind industries illuminates how the government helps many export industries, as well as the challenges for the West now that the country has emerged as the world's second-largest economy, surpassing Japan and gradually gaining on the United States.
Winning Big
Barely a player in the solar industry five years ago, China is on track to produce more than half the world's solar panels this year. More than 95 percent of them will be exported to countries like the United States and Germany that offer generous subsidies for consumers who buy solar panels.
By contrast, the Chinese government has relatively modest solar subsidies for its citizens. Instead it has devoted more money to helping manufacturers, allowing them to cash in on other countries' consumer subsidy programs.
China is also on track to make nearly half of the world's wind turbines this year. China offers financial incentives for utilities to use wind power, which is less costly than solar power, and the country passed the United States last year as the world's largest wind turbine market. Government-subsidized turbine makers are now preparing for large-scale exports to the United States and Europe, which could also result in violations of W.T.O. rules.
Meanwhile, China itself imports virtually no wind turbines or solar panels, instead protecting those developing industries. For example, China until late last year required that 70 percent of the content of each wind turbine and 80 percent of the content of each solar panel be made within China. China quietly dropped that rule after objections from American officials, but also because its own industries had become the world's largest, lowest-cost producers.
Now China strongly opposes suggestions in Congress that the United States or Europe follow China's example and impose ''local content'' rules to help their own struggling renewable energy industries.
''Now if the U.S. sets up that kind of regulation, it will really be a problem'' said Li Junfeng, a senior Chinese energy policy maker. ''We need to buy from each other.''
China's expansion has been traumatic for American and European solar power manufacturers, and Western wind turbine makers are now bracing to compete with low-cost Chinese exports. This year, BP shut down its solar panel manufacturing in Frederick, Md., and in Spain, and laid off most of the employees while expanding a joint venture in China.
Evergreen Solar of Marlboro, Mass., plans to move the final manufacturing steps for its solar panels from Devens, Mass., to China next summer, eliminating 300 American jobs, after struggling to borrow money in the United States and after finding that costs in China were lower.
The Obama administration has begun high-level discussions on how to respond to China's industrial policies, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an interview in Washington in July.
''We are concerned about the depth and breadth of the measures they have taken,'' Mr. Geithner said, later adding, ''We will be aggressive on the trade front in terms of fighting anything that is clearly discriminatory.''
Helping Hand
Here in Changsha, Sunzone's general manager and chief engineer, Zhao Feng, represents a new breed of Chinese clean energy entrepreneurs. Tall and fit, he is an avid painter, fisherman and golfer.
''If I go to Los Angeles for 10 days, I am on a golf course for eight days,'' he said.
A former professor of semiconductors at Hunan University, he has a daughter studying for a doctorate in bioengineering at the University of Chicago on a Pentagon grant, and he owns a house in Chicago a block from President Obama's.
Mr. Zhao is quick to point out that state and federal governments in the United States have also encouraged the development of the clean energy industry. ''Our provincial governor has come several times to our plant, just as Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger has made several visits to solar power companies'' in California, he said.
But the Hunan government's backing of Sunzone is much more extensive than anything in the United States.
With government help, Sunzone lined up financing and received all the permits necessary to build a factory in just three months under an expedited approval system for clean energy businesses. It took only eight more months to build and equip the factory. ''The construction teams worked 24 hours a day, seven days a week in three shifts,'' Mr. Zhao said.
Building and equipping a solar panel factory in the United States takes 14 to 16 months, and getting environmental and other permits can take years, said Tom Zarrella, the former chief executive of GT Solar in Merrimack, N.H., a big supplier of solar manufacturing equipment to factories in the United States and China.
A strong symbol of the government's commitment to the clean energy industry in China may be Sunzone's walled 22-acre compound here.
The company has only 360 employees, who work in a modest two-story building and small factory. Many of them live in a six-story dormitory. The compound also has a demonstration house powered by solar panels.
But the government has granted Sunzone enough cheap land to make room for an orchard of orange trees, a nearly finished golf driving range and winding country lanes -- all of it across the street from 17-story apartment buildings near the heart of downtown Changsha. A lone trellis-covered swing that sits on Sunzone's vast plot seems to signal how little occupied the land is.
As a clean energy business, Sunzone was allowed to buy the land two years ago for $90,000 an acre, Mr. Zhao said. That was one-third of the official price then for industrial land from the government.
Industrial land in this desirable neighborhood now sells for $720,000 an acre, giving Sunzone an eightfold profit on paper. The company carries the land on its books at this market price, and can borrow against it, Mr. Zhao said. The valuable land also means the company has big assets and little debt on its balance sheet, which should help attract investors for a planned initial public offering in 2012.
Executives at three other clean energy companies in and around Changsha said they, too, had been allowed to buy government land for a third of the regulated price.
Mr. Zhao defended the size of his corporate park as necessary for his business and said it was not a real estate investment. The driving range will be made available to all employees for their relaxation, he said. And he said Sunzone hoped to build a nine-story solar research center on part of its land someday.
The local government of Zhuzhou, a city near Changsha, is even more generous. ''For really good projects, we can give them the land for free,'' said He Jianbo, the deputy director of the city's flourishing high-tech zone, which already makes everything from electric buses to solar panels, and is preparing to build electric cars. ''This land subsidy is not available to traditional industries, only high-tech industries.''
Many state and local governments in the United States have also built roads, installed power lines and made other infrastructure improvements that have increased the value of private land as part of programs to attract clean energy. Tax holidays for such businesses are common in the United States, as in China.
But according to Commerce Department experts in Washington, government agencies in the United States have generally refrained from the sale of deeply discounted government land to export industries, while infrastructure improvements have been made to benefit all road and telecommunications users, not just specific export industries. A wide range of international trade agreements, including W.T.O. rules, allow governments to provide infrastructure and some types of tax breaks, but bar subsidies in the form of cheap transfers of valuable government assets like land to exporters.
Mr. Zhao said that whatever the global trade rules might be on export subsidies, the world should appreciate the generous assistance of Chinese government agencies to the country's clean energy industries. That support has made possible a sharp drop in the price of renewable energy and has helped humanity address global warming, he said.
The subsidized land will also help Sunzone afford plans to sell solar panels below cost to poor people in western China, Mr. Zhao said, adding that he hoped the effort would build good will and lead to more sales there.
Money for Nothing
As Sunzone prepares to double its manufacturing capacity by the end of this year, state banks and the municipal government are ready to help.
The company has reached a tentative deal to borrow $11 million, to increase employment to 600 workers. The bank will lend the money at an interest rate of about 6 percent, but the provincial government will then give Sunzone a direct rebate to pay more than half the interest on the loan. ''Just yesterday, the bank general manager brought his staff here to see how they could be of service to us,'' Mr. Zhao said. ''We don't need to go to the bank; they come here.''
Low-interest loans from government-run banks are crucial to China's clean energy success, some experts say, because of the high cost of factory equipment.
''If you change the interest rate half a percent or 1 percent, the difference is amazing, because the cost is all at the beginning,'' said Dennis Bracy, chief executive of the U.S.-China Clean Energy Forum, a discussion group of Chinese energy officials and former American cabinet officials.
In the United States, the Obama administration has approved $10 billion in grants, loan guarantees and other financing to help new entrants in the industry and aid existing companies, and has promised another $10 billion, said Matt Rogers, the senior adviser to Energy Secretary Steven Chu for economic stimulus programs. Almost all the money is for projects that will generate electricity for the United States.
But the American clean energy programs carry many time-consuming and difficult requirements. Companies must show they can repay loans and have innovative technology. The department has given conditional approval to 18 renewable energy loan guarantees, although only four have led to the actual issuance of loans so far. But the administration is moving quickly to accelerate the process, said Jonathan Silver, the executive director of the Energy Department's loan guarantee program.
China has been pumping loans into clean energy so rapidly that even $23 billion in credit offered by the China Development Bank to three solar panel exporters and a wind turbine maker since April has barely raised eyebrows. China Development Bank, owned by the government, exists to lend money for strategic priorities.
Western clean energy companies complain of much higher financing costs -- when they can raise money at all. Banks have been cautious about the sector, which leans heavily on venture capitalists and private equity firms that demand implicit interest rates of up to 9 percent right now in the United States, said Thomas Maslin, a senior solar analyst at IHS Emerging Energy Research.
Evergreen Solar, the Massachusetts company, struggled for three years to raise money in the States, but had no trouble doing so in China. Chinese state banks were happy to lend most of the money for the factory on very attractive terms, like a five-year loan with no payments of interest or principal until the end of the loan, said Michael El-Hillow, the company's chief financial officer.
''You can't get a penny in the United States, it doesn't matter who you call -- banks, government. It's awful,'' he said. ''Therein lies the hidden advantage of being in China.''
Many Chinese clean energy executives argue that China should offer more subsidies for its own people to buy renewable energy, in addition to helping export-oriented manufacturers. But until domestic demand takes off, government support will remain crucial.
''Who wins this clean energy race,'' Mr. Zhao of Sunzone said, ''really depends on how much support the government gives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers, above, inside the Hunan Sunzone solar panel factory in Changsha, China. The government transferred to the company 22 acres of valuable land, now featuring a swing cooled by a solar-powered fan, left. Sunzone ships most of its panels to Europe and plans to push into America. Zhao Feng, the general manager, below left, defends government assistance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY O'ROURKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
Inside the Evergreen Solar plant in Devens, Mass. The company plans to move the final manufacturing steps for its panels to China next summer, a decision that would eliminate 300 American jobs. Evergreen said it found it difficult to raise money in the United States, but not in China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) CHARTS: A Solar Power: China has become the world's biggest manufacturer of solar panels, with large shares of leading markets -- and complete dominance of its own market. (Source: IHS Emerging Energy Research)
 Wind at Their Backs: Until dropping the rule late last year, China required that wind-power turbines sold there must contain 70 percent local content. But even though the world's big turbine companies opened Chinese factories to meet that requirement, China's government-run utilities have steered most contracts to domestic makers. (Source: IHS Emerging Energy Research) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); HOG & PIG FARMING (78%); WIND POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); WIND ENERGY (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); CITIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CENTRAL CHINA (96%); HUNAN, CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



224 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Data on Seattle Nonprofits Is Now Public

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The Seattle Foundation started a new program on Wednesday to provide access to its data, research and evaluations of almost 700 local nonprofit groups in and around the city and King County.
Such information was previously available only to clients who maintained ''giving accounts,'' known as donor-advised funds, but is now available through the foundation's Web site free to anyone.
''We know that when we can engage our donors with this information and help them understand the local context of an issue and give them information we have from site visits and other interaction with nonprofits, they give more,'' said Jared Watson, vice president for grant making and knowledge management at the Seattle Foundation. ''We're hoping to have the same kind of impact with the information we're now offering anyone who visits our Web site.'' 
Donors, unlike investors, typically have little information on which to base their giving. Charity tax forms, which are publicly available, are difficult to understand and disclose little about an organization's effectiveness, and efforts to provide more comprehensive information, like the Better Business Bureau's Wise Giving Alliance, are limited because they lack financial support from donors.
Consequently, nonprofits with prominent brand names attract the most donations; after a disaster, for example, the American Red Cross always garners more money than other nonprofits working on disaster relief.
''If people have easy access to trustworthy information about other organizations, it offers alternatives to donors who might otherwise just default to the Red Cross,'' said Timothy Ogden, a philanthropy expert who blogs at Philanthropy Action.
Community foundations like the Seattle Foundation, which typically manage giving accounts on behalf of donors in addition to making grants on their own, gather a wide range of information on local nonprofit groups through site visits and other experiences.
A handful of them provide access to databases of local nonprofits, but experts say the Seattle Foundation's system goes further by offering snapshot evaluations based on its own research and is much easier to use, particularly because it does not require any registration.
''I really think they've built a better platform,'' said Lucy Bernholz, a philanthropy consultant who also has a blog, Philanthropy 2173. ''It's like a menu of options, with all kinds of information you might want in digestible chunks.''
For instance, the entry on HopeLink, a nonprofit that offers financial assistance, food, transportation and other services for the needy, describes it as a ''sophisticated provider of innovative programs in underserved communities.'' It offers financial information showing that the organization ended last year with a surplus and describes its biggest challenge as keeping up with a drastic increase in demand because of the economic downturn.
The foundation held meetings with about 500 nonprofit groups to explain the new program and solicit feedback. ''Most of the concerns were about when evaluations didn't seem factually accurate to organizations,'' Mr. Watson said.
He said the foundation's board also worried about the effect the new service would have on donors with accounts. ''There were some concerns on the board about whether we are giving away the store, but they decided we offer a lot of other services like investment management and grants administration that are still going to be useful to our donors,'' Mr. Watson said.
The Greater Kansas City Community Foundation experimented with a similar program a few years ago but decided it could not afford to maintain it, said Laura McKnight, its chief executive. The foundation gave that system, called DonorEdge, to GuideStar, a research and data provider that sells a revamped product to foundations.
Ms. McKnight said that in addition to the cost, the system confused donors and created false hopes among nonprofits. ''There was an impression that we had created an A.T.M. for them, which of course wasn't at all what we were trying to do,'' she said.
Mr. Watson said the Seattle Foundation's meetings with nonprofits helped explain its program. ''We worked hard to get their feedback and buy in,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); WEB SITES (76%); BETTER BUSINESS BUREAUS (73%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



225 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Plumbing Emerges as an Obstacle to the 2nd Ave. Subway

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The elusive Second Avenue subway line has been held up for decades by political turf wars and ill-timed recessions. Now frustrated New Yorkers can add another culprit to the list: plumbing. 
The relocation of underground utilities, including water pipes, gas lines, fuel tanks and electrical wires, are to blame for at least six months of delays and more than $130 million in overruns on the perennially postponed project, according to the inspector general of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
The utilities, within privately owned buildings or beneath Second Avenue itself, must be moved to make room for the first phase of the subway line, a 1.7-mile route between 96th Street and an existing station at Lexington Avenue and 63rd Street.
The inspector general, Barry L. Kluger, who admitted ''frustration'' over the project's progress, also found that the transportation authority's troubles in awarding contracts have added $120 million to the bill and extended its completion date by a full year.
Mr. Kluger's findings offer a rare glimpse at the item-by-item causes for the enormous financial woes plaguing the project. Federal officials now believe the first phase of the subway line will cost about $4.98 billion, nearly $1 billion more than the original estimate in 2007, when federal financing was secured for the project.
Federal officials now estimate the first phase of work will be completed in February 2018, while transportation authority officials have put the date at no later than July 2017.
The transportation authority has acknowledged the project is over budget, but its planners say the ultimate cost for this phase will be around $4.45 billion.
Mr. Kluger disclosed his conclusions in a letter sent last month to the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, who asked the inspector general to examine some of the reasons behind the project's delays. A copy of the letter was obtained by The New York Times.
''What due diligence didn't happen that we are having these cost overruns?'' Mr. Stringer said in an interview. ''There is a sophistication needed for managing a capital program of this magnitude that is lacking.''
Mr. Stringer said he thought a joint city-state independent agency should be set up to coordinate work on the project, similar to a group created in 2004 that oversees construction in Lower Manhattan. ''The M.T.A. must take a more realistic approach to managing expectations,'' he said.
A transportation authority spokesman wrote in an e-mail that the agency had adopted a ''new approach to maximize cost effectiveness for all of our capital projects.''
Some federal officials appear to be losing their patience with the transportation authority. In June, Peter M. Rogoff, the administrator of the Federal Transit Administration, pledged not to spend ''a single penny'' of federal funds to cover delays and cost overruns on the Second Avenue subway or a new Long Island Rail Road station beneath Grand Central Terminal.
The inspector general is in the midst of a broader review of the authority's construction practices. Mr. Kluger wrote that he expected to complete that report by the end of this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (84%); BUDGETS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



226 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Central Bankers Under Pressure on Rules to Prevent Crises

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- The drama in Ireland has added urgency to efforts by central bankers and bank regulators to agree on global rules designed to prevent future crises.
Axel Weber, president of the German Bundesbank and a member of the governing council of the European Central Bank, said Wednesday at a conference in Frankfurt that he was optimistic there would be an agreement on the new rules when representatives from 27 countries including the United States, China and members of the European Union meet Sunday in Basel, Switzerland.
The recommendations, which include a sharp increase in the amount of capital banks must hold in reserve, will be presented to the Group of 20 nations when they meet in November. 
But debate about the rules remained intense, with some bankers protesting that higher capital requirements could throttle lending.
Heinrich Haasis, president of the German Savings Banks Association, said it was unfair to expect smaller thrift institutions to meet the same requirements as big banks. Rules that could require banks to hold up to 16 percent of their assets in reserve would force German savings banks to reduce lending by 225 billion, or $287 billion, he said.
''That cannot seriously be what regulators and politicians want,'' said Mr. Haasis, who also attended the bankers conference, which was sponsored by the business newspaper Handelsblatt. He complained that the savings banks were being punished even though they did not contribute to the financial crisis or require government bailouts.
The association representing German Landesbanks expressed concern that the narrower definitions of what constitutes high-quality capital would require the public-sector institutions -- typically owned by German states and local saving banks -- to raise an additional 50 billion or $64 billion in capital.
The Landesbanks, several of which required huge bailouts, have limited access to capital markets and would have trouble raising the money, the Association of German Public Sector Banks said in a statement Wednesday. They would have no alternative but to curtail lending, the association said.
But Mr. Weber disputed what he said were ''dramatic prognoses'' of the effect higher capital requirements would have on banks' ability to lend.
''The avoidance of crises increases welfare in the long term. Just think about what kind of costs the current crisis has burdened us with,'' Mr. Weber said. ''It is not to be expected that the increase in capital quotas will drag down the real economy, especially since there is a generous transition period.''
Several bankers speaking at the same Frankfurt conference said they were in favor of tighter capital requirements. James P. Gorman, chief executive of the investment bank Morgan Stanley, said that new capital rules were necessary, though he did not say what ratios he sees as appropriate.
However, Mr. Gorman also complained that public anger at bankers has hurt business and consumer confidence. ''It's now necessary to tone down the antibanking rhetoric,'' he said.
Alessandro Profumo, chief executive of UniCredit, the Italian bank, said that banks would not be as profitable in the future, but that they would be more stable.
''For sure, the returns on equity we were talking about a few years ago are not any more a reality,'' Mr. Profumo said. But he added, ''There will be less volatility. All the changes we are undergoing will increase stability.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Axel A. Weber, president of Germany's central bank, arrived Wednesday in Frankfurt for a conference on regulations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EURO (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%) GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



227 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Joins Sanctions on Iran

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea listed 126 Iranian companies and individuals for economic sanctions on Wednesday, including a major banking operation, despite Iran's warnings that the penalties would endanger growing trade and energy ties. 
The South Korean actions included effectively hamstringing the Seoul office of Bank Mellat, which handles transactions for 70 percent of South Korean exports to Iran. The United States has accused the bank of facilitating hundreds of millions of dollars in transactions for Iranian nuclear, missile and defense entities.
Bank Mellat's Seoul branch will now need approval from the Bank of Korea, the central bank, to carry out any financial deal.
South Korea has been under growing pressure from Washington to join sanctions mandated by the United Nations Security Council. Seoul has sought to balance the pressure with its desire to protect its trade and energy ties with Iran, its largest export market in the Middle East.
Iran, meanwhile, threatened to boycott South Korean cars and electronics in retaliation for any new sanctions.
In the end, South Korea's sanctions were similar to those previously announced by Japan and the European Union.
A senior Foreign Ministry official who briefed the news media, on ground rules of anonymity, said the decision on Iran reflected a campaign to bring international pressure on North Korea to give up nuclear weapons.
''Our government expects Iran to join the international efforts for nuclear nonproliferation and take steps to faithfully implement its obligations under the relative U.N.S.C. resolutions,'' said a statement read by Kim Young-sun, a Foreign Ministry spokesman.
Trade between Iran and South Korea grew to $9.6 billion last year, up from $2.9 billion in 2001. In the first seven months of 2010 it rose 53 percent over the same period of last year to $7.4 billion -- thanks mainly to increased oil exports to South Korea and a growing Iranian appetite for Korean electronics and vehicles. Iran is the fourth-largest source of crude oil for South Korea, accounting for 10 percent of its oil imports.
On Wednesday, South Korea said it would not curtail oil imports from Iran, but it prohibited new investment, technical services, financial services and building contracts for Iran's petroleum and gas industries. South Korean companies are a major player in the construction and engineering markets in Iran, with an estimated $1.9 billion worth of current contracts.
Bank Mellat's Seoul branch will now need to obtain approval from the Bank of Korea, the central bank, before carrying out any financial deal.
South Korean financial regulators also plan to suspend the bank's operations for an unspecified period -- local news outlets said for two months -- for assisting Iran's suspected efforts to develop weapons. Officials here said that wiring money from a third country to Iran through the Bank Mellat branch in Seoul would be blocked.
''The Seoul branch cannot operate normally anymore,'' said the senior Foreign Ministry official.
South Korean officials said they were talking with Tehran to open accounts based on South Korea's currency, the won, in the Iranian central bank to help South Korean companies avoid going through European and Japanese banks and to facilitate oil trading and other legitimate dealings with Iran.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); BOYCOTTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WIRE TRANSFERS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%)

COMPANY: BANK OF KOREA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



228 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CONVERSATIONS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Views of Health Care Economics From a C.E.O. Named Bush

BYLINE: By ROBB MANDELBAUM

 BODY:
In the world of health care innovation, the founder and chief executive of Athenahealth has an outsize name. In part, that's because his name is Jonathan Bush, and he is the nephew of one former president and the cousin of another. But it's also because his company has mastered the intricacies of the doctor-insurer relationship and become a player in the emerging medical records industry.
Based in Watertown, Mass., Athenahealth offers a suite of administrative services for medical practices. It collects payments from insurers and patients, and it manages electronic health records and patient communication systems. All of this is done remotely through the Internet -- or ''in the cloud,'' as Mr. Bush puts it. Doctors don't have to install or manage software or pay licensing fees; instead, Athenahealth keeps a percentage of the revenue.
Lately, Athenahealth's stock price has been hammered by news of an internal accounting audit and missed earnings expectations. By July its shares had fallen by more than half from their January high. (They have since reversed some of that decline.) 
Even so, the company's sales have grown substantially over the last couple of years. While the bill collection service still accounts for most of the sales, the company's fastest-growing business has been its electronic records segment, which has benefited from provisions in the 2009 stimulus law and this year's health care overhaul.
What follows is a condensed version of a conversation with Mr. Bush about how he built a small medical practice into a national enterprise with nearly 1,200 employees, and how the new health care law is likely to affect businesses -- small firms as well as his own.
Q.Athenahealth got its start when you purchased a birthing practice in California back in 1997. But you're not a doctor -- why did you buy it?
A. You know, Bush family noblesse oblige. I wanted to take advantage of all this education and support I've had and do well by doing good, and health care seemed like a place that no one else in my family had been much. A new approach to health care seemed to me to be the oil fields of 1997.
Q.So what led you into the administrative services business?
A. I ran into all of the problems that medical practices ran into, all of which were unrelated to medical care. I couldn't get my claims paid, I couldn't make payroll because of all of these ridiculous regulatory and insurance rules that were changing all the time and were very esoteric, and the technical infrastructure to connect and move around was incredibly poor.
We had 13 little offices up and down San Diego County, and they were running up against scale-based obstacles, things that would need real management infrastructure and capital to do properly. So we built a little Web site for ourselves called Athenanet, and pretty soon all the doctors in the neighborhood wanted to be on Athenanet.
In fact, when we were trying to raise venture capital to go do more birthing centers, and it wasn't happening, one of the venture capitalists said in passing that he would give me $11 million for an unlimited license to Athenanet [laughs]. And I think our pre-money valuation for the whole company was $7 million. It was as if a budding, small airline wakes up to find that they invented the Sabre system.
Q.Your revenue has grown 40 percent in each of the last two years, from $98 million to $189 million --
A. Don't you love it?
Q.Well, not as much as you do.
A. And yet, the Street hates me. I don't know.
Q.What's going on in the health care industry to deliver that kind of growth to you?
A. We are a disruptive technology. We are the only cloud-based service in an industry segment full of sclerotic, enormous, personality-free corporations that have been in business making 90 percent margins doing nothing for decades and decades.
Q. What keeps other companies from building cloud-based systems?
A. For software companies, the biggest barrier to entry is that they give up their business model. Those companies would get hammered on Wall Street if they started selling a service that they have to deliver at a loss for five years. In terms of new entrants, there are two things that we've done that would take a good decade to replicate. One, we've built out the health care Internet. We've been building connections into insurance companies and laboratories and hospital medical records for years and years and years.
And the other barrier to entry is that rules engine. Every time a doctor anywhere in the country gets a claim denied, we have analysts ask the Five Whys. When we get to root cause, we write a new rule into Athenanet and from that day on, no other doctor gets that particular denial from that particular insurance company ever again. We now know of 40 million ways that a doctor can have a claim denied in the United States. The average practice has to rework about 35 percent of their claims, and we only have to rework about 5 percent of ours.
Q.What's the prognosis for bill collecting under health care reform?
A. Well, there's going to be new connectors and a whole series of new insurance products that will be managed by the states' health insurance commissioners. And the law provides for every state to do all of these its own way, so they will have their own rules and regulations, and each state will do it differently. That sounds like springtime in Complexity Land.
Q.What do you think will happen to the total cost of health care under reform?
A. Oh, it's going to go through the roof! It's widely accepted that this is not a cost-reform bill -- it's an access bill. It's in fact a cost-expansion bill.
Q. Last year, Dr. Atul Gawande made a pretty cogent case, writing in The New Yorker, not just that the small pilot projects in the reform would control costs but that they are the only way to control costs in an industry as sprawling as health care.
A. I e-mail a lot with Atul and he's a product of the Borg, at some big institution, and thinks in terms of papers and grants from Washington. I totally agree that demonstration projects are what changes a market, but outside of the Borg, we call those businesses. I suppose Washington trying to be an innovator also is fine, but at some point the demonstration project is going to have to be consumers using their judgment about which things they want.
Q.If you were still a small company, or if you were starting a business now, would health care reform help or hurt you as an employer?
A. Well, certainly the idea that somebody else is going to pay a lot of my health insurance cost, at the micro level, makes a lot of sense. It'd be great, yeah, thanks -- anything else you want to pay for? If you actually ever have to start paying this thing, all of this accelerates the increase in the cost. Eventually, consumers will need to eat a big part of their health care cost, because health care will fundamentally consume the entire G.D.P. in the not-too-distant future.
Everybody agrees that this is good in the way that it creates engagement in society by those who are outcasts. So if you're feeling like you don't want to believe in America anymore because you don't have health insurance, well, now you can believe a little more. It's bad in terms of the macro economy. But I don't know which one is more important in the grand scheme for today.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jonathan Bush, the chief of Athenahealth, a Web service that helps doctors and other providers manage records, billing and patient communications. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE McDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (72%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%)

COMPANY: ATHENAHEALTH INC (91%)

TICKER: ATHN (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



229 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHICAGO JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Considering Daley's Exit, With Hope and With Fear

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Moments after Mayor Richard M. Daley announced that he would not seek re-election, a text message popped up on Mary Williams-Taylor's mobile phone.
''Hallelujah!'' it read. ''Did you hear the good news?''
Just ending her shift as a hospital laboratory technician, Ms. Williams-Taylor, 50, was instantly struck by feelings of sadness and dread. ''Don't joke,'' she wrote back. ''This is awful. What are we going to do without Daley? I'm afraid to even think about it.'' 
The two friends and their quick exchange capture the primary emotions that have swept over Chicago since Mr. Daley, 68, said he would bow out of the office he has held since 1989: enthusiasm about an opportunity for real change for the first time in decades, alongside a real fear of the unknown.
Because of Mayor Daley's enormous influence over almost every aspect of city life, as well as the length of his tenure, his exit will leave a significant void; imagine if a strong mayor like Rudolph W. Giuliani or Michael R. Bloomberg held the reins in New York for 20 years.
All power radiated from Mr. Daley, so there will almost certainly be a new power structure here, from the neighborhood level to the City Council and city agencies and all the way to the mayor's office.
Mr. Daley has not groomed a successor, leaving no guarantee that the transition will be smooth or that the end result will look anything like what Chicagoans have grown used to over the last 21 years. The political waters are already churning, as though a dam broke, releasing a flood of pent-up would-be mayors.
''There are meetings going on from every creed, clique, race group and gender in every part of town,'' said State Senator Rickey R. Hendon, a Democrat. ''It's the wild, wild West, every man for himself. I'm a candidate myself at the moment. Everybody I know is running. The doorman in my building is running.''
But some people wonder who would have the vision and coalition-building skills to follow Mr. Daley and keep the local government steady, particularly in a time of dwindling resources and continuing economic uncertainty.
There are hopes that whatever replaces Daley administration will be more transparent, more of a technocratic meritocracy -- built around professionalism and strong institutions rather than patronage and personality politics. There is a fervent hope that this time will be different from the last time City Hall had no Daley. Those old enough to remember the years between Mr. Daley and his father, Richard J. Daley, who died in office in 1976, do not do so fondly.
The city stalled, and at one point in the mid-1980s, the government broke down into what was known as the Council Wars, where white aldermen blocked the reform agenda of Harold Washington, the city's first black mayor, turning City Hall into a tumultuous battleground of coarse racial politics. Even Mr. Daley's critics concede that he did much to calm the racial strife, promoting minorities and women and gaining a reputation as someone who believes in diversity.
''I'm already worried about the next guy,'' Ms. Williams-Taylor said.
The Chicago mayoralty has the name ''Daley'' stamped so prominently across it that ''some people think it's the name of the office,'' said Dick Simpson, head of the political science department at the University of Illinois, Chicago. ''They're just not used to thinking about a post-Daley era. There is some trepidation.''
The city itself wears the bold stamp of the younger Mr. Daley, who presided over Chicago's shift from a manufacturing economy to one based on the service industries and finance, keeping the city afloat and thriving as others in the Midwest faltered. He cloaked downtown in green, creating parks and environmentally friendly roofs, and planting flowers with a gardener's touch.
Still, many are looking forward to a change. Mayor Daley could be short-tempered, given to malapropisms and, some would say, dismissive of neighborhoods beyond the glitz of the lakefront. His administration was also tainted by scandal in patronage hiring and contract fraud, although he always managed to stay above the fray.
''I'm glad he's going,'' said Amber Terrell, 21, a South Side resident. ''He's been mayor all my life, and in my neighborhood, I don't see anything so good. Potholes, the schools are bad, it's dangerous, there's new parking meters everywhere. It's a shame. I'd like to know what this city would be like under somebody else.''
But who?
A sheriff who casts himself as a reformer, like Thomas Dart of Cook County, who has said in the past he has interest in the job? Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff who is a former Daley strategist who said in April that he would like to run for mayor one day? Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., who has made no secret of having his eyes on the post-Daley period? Or any number of aldermen? What about David Hoffman, the former federal prosecutor who made an impressive showing in the recent Democratic primary for the Senate seat once held by President Obama?
The nonpartisan primary election, on Feb. 22, is likely to be a free-for-all, said Larry Bennett, a political science professor at DePaul University. ''This is new ground,'' he said. ''We have not had an election like this is in any of our experience.''
Ms. Williams-Taylor said she already knew how she would vote in the primary. ''I'm going to write in Daley,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Richard M. Daley has wielded tremendous influence over Chicago in his 21 years in office. On Tuesday, he announced that he would not seek re-election next year, a surprise to many. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES REX ARBOGAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mayor Richard M. Daley at the start of the St. Patrick's Day parade in 2004. Mr. Daley has been in office since 1989. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BOYLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CITY LIFE (67%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



230 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Zvonareva and Wozniacki Adjust And Advance to the Semifinals

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

 BODY:
While her classmates in Moscow ease into the new school year, Vera Zvonareva is grinding through her tennis exams at the United States Open. The tournament's pass-fail format used to be a trial for Zvonareva, who had a hard time accepting any score short of perfection.
With her 6-3, 7-5 quarterfinal victory against Kaia Kanepi on Wednesday, Zvonareva demonstrated that she has learned her lessons well. The blustery conditions in Arthur Ashe Stadium made it difficult to execute the simplest of shots, but rather than letting her frustrations boil over, Zvonareva pared her expectations and her game. 
Instead of aiming for perfection, she focused on keeping the ball in play, with low-risk shots that lulled the less-experienced Kanepi into mistakes.
Kanepi finished with 60 unforced errors to Zvonareva's 28, affirming the soundness of Zvonareva's strategy and the maturation of her game. Her opponent in the semifinals will be the top seed, Caroline Wozniacki, who dispatched Dominika Cibulkova, 6-2, 7-5, on the same court -- but in a worse wind -- later in the day.
''With the wind going all the different directions and blowing, it's not easy to make those shots,'' said Zvonareva, the No. 7 seed. ''So sometimes you have to make the right choices. I think today I made the right choices where I had just to put the ball in play and where sometimes I had to step up a little bit and do a little bit more with the ball.''
Zvonareva, 26, had 10 winners, only one of which came from her forehand. When one of her forehands hit the net or sailed long, Zvonareva cracked a rueful smile. Otherwise she kept her emotions in check, showing less irritation with herself than she did while losing only three games against Andrea Petkovic in the previous round.
''I also know I'm not going to be able to play my best tennis every day and right now I'm accepting it,'' Zvonareva said, adding, ''You cannot get frustrated if you are playing against anyone. If you get frustrated, well, you will probably lose the match.''
Zvonareva's composure contrasted sharply with her outburst of tears at last year's Open in her fourth-round match against Flavia Pennetta, when she lost after squandering six match points. Zvonareva became upset about a bad tape job on her knees. The tape was causing discomfort, and she unraveled, slapping her legs and pulling the tape from her knees and crying.
Asked what she learned from that match, Zvonareva shifted in her seat and said: ''There is something to learn from every match you play. So there are probably things that made me a more experienced player at the moment.''
Zvonareva is tennis's answer to Michelle Wie, the professional golfer who spends part of the school year attending Stanford. After the Open, Zvonareva will return to Moscow and go to her classes at the Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
School started on Sept. 1, and Zvonareva said she had been cracking her books on statistics and finances between her matches. She has one more year, she said, before completing her degree in international economic relations.
Because there is little downtime built into the tennis calendar, Zvonareva said she can only attend classes intermittently. When she is traveling on the tour, she corresponds with her professors by e-mail and downloads lectures from the Internet.
''School helps me,'' she said, ''because I always have to study. It's something that puts my head away from tennis. I can really forget about tennis. Anything else I do, tennis is always in my head.''
Zvonareva is playing as if her mind were clearer. At Wimbledon, she defeated two former No. 1s, Jelena Jankovic and Kim Clijsters, on her way to the final, where she was beaten by Serena Williams in straight sets. Last month, she lost to Wozniacki, her next opponent, in the final of the Rogers Cup in Montreal.
Wozniacki, a 20-year-old Dane whose guests in her box included Donald Trump, described the conditions on Wednesday night as ''like playing in a hurricane.''
She had to dig deep to avoid a second-set tie breaker. Serving at 6-5 and facing a break point, she and Cibulkova engaged in a 15-stroke rally that ended when Cibulkova dumped a return into the net.
After closing out the match, Wozniacki said, ''For me to get that win under my belt showed me that I'm in good form.''
In five matches, Wozniacki has lost 17 games.
Like Zvonareva, Wozniacki handled the conditions better than her opponent, finishing with 18 unforced errors to Cibulkova's 43. She had 12 winners and spent most of the night running around her forehand, on which she had half her unforced errors.
''The wind was just going everywhere,'' Wozniacki said. ''I was trying to get into position so I could hit the ball.''
Wozniacki also shares Zvonareva's zest for learning. She has talked about taking online classes through Yale. On Friday, one will find out a lot about herself at the other's expense.
''I'm expecting a match,'' Wozniacki said, ''where I really need to play at my best level to win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vera Zvonareva of Russia won her quarterfinal over Kaia Kanepi of Estonia, 6-3, 7-5. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SOLOMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) UNITED STATES (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); ESTONIA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



231 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: On a Mission to Save Cruise Decor

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
MOORPARK, Calif.
THE beige stucco house, on a cul-de-sac here, 45 miles northwest of downtown Los Angeles, is filled with the remnants of midcentury cruise ships, in piles so large and precarious they make the house feel like an oceangoing attic.
For the last decade, many of the great ships of the 1950s, '60s and '70s have made their final voyages to Alang, India, where they are sold for scrap. But as they are being picked apart in a ship-breaking operation rarely seen by outsiders, Peter Knego, a former music promoter, has been buying up their furniture and fittings, remnants of an era when cruise lines turned to artists and craftsmen to create striking midcentury interiors.
In 2008, a mural by Enrico Paulucci, rescued by Mr. Knego from the Eugenio C (a 1965 Italian ship), sold for $38,000 at auction. But most of the items he saves are far less valuable. On his Web site, midshipcentury.com, wood and chrome cocktail tables from the Holland America Line's Standendam are $450; armless chairs from Eugenio C's cabins are $150; and stairwell light fixtures from the Olympia, of zigzag patterned leather with star-shaped cutouts, are $400. 
While the great ships of the 1920s and '30s -- Art Deco ocean liners like the Normandie and the Queen Mary -- have many devotees, the ships of the postwar years are far less celebrated.
''I didn't think this stuff was cool till six or seven years ago, so I understand it takes time for people to catch up,'' Mr. Knego said.
Altogether, Mr. Knego said, he has spent about half a million dollars on his seven trips to India, and another $70,000 or so shipping the spoils home to Moorpark. Friends help him unload the 40-foot-long containers and sort the contents in his backyard.
For the midcentury ships Mr. Knego loves, the beginning of the end was 9/11, which led to a decline in tourism that made many of the liners unprofitable. Now the end of the end is approaching. New provisions of the international Safety of Life at Sea (Solas) convention, effective Oct. 1, prohibit wooden construction in overnight passenger ships. That provision, Mr. Knego said, dooms most ships built before 1970, which would require such extensive refurbishment that it's more economical to scrap them.
Mr. Knego expects several of those ships -- including the Mona Lisa (formerly the Kungsholm) -- to end up in Alang. After that, he said, ''It will just be the ships of the 'Love Boat' generation -- with cheap, mass-produced details.''
Mr. Knego said that as a child he had various fixations -- butterflies and Henry VIII -- but that he found his true passion in the eighth grade, when he wrote a paper on the Lusitania. As an adult, he took as many cruises as he could on the midcentury ships.
In 2004, Mr. Knego, now 50, was working as a record promoter when he heard that one of those ships, the Stella Solaris, built in France in 1952, was headed to Alang. ''I didn't want to go,'' he said, ''but I knew I had to do it.''
Since then, he said, ''Every time I recover from one trip, I hear about another ship. It's been non-stop for the last five years.''
The process, he said, is driven more by the desire to save bits of maritime history than to make money. He supports himself in part by writing articles about cruise ships and in part from sales of a video that documents his first trip to Alang. Alang isn't Mr. Knego's idea of a vacation destination. He doesn't like heat or bugs or heights -- all three of which abound during his sojourns.
The cruise lines sell the ships to Alang's ship-breaking tycoons, who profit by recycling the steel and other materials recovered from the vessels. When the ships arrive in Alang, they are run onto the beaches at high tide, then allowed to sink into the sand, making it possible for workers to clamber aboard.
Human rights groups say those workers are handling asbestos and other hazardous materials with little if any protection. According to the NGO Platform on Shipbreaking, a coalition of advocacy groups, ship breaking as practiced in South Asia ''creates unacceptable levels of death, injury, work-related diseases and environmental pollution.''
Mr. Knego's attitude is that if the ships are going to be destroyed -- however that happens -- he would like to save as many of their riches as he can. But because the ship breakers would prefer to avoid prying eyes, he said, foreigners are generally unwelcome in Alang. Mr. Knego, who has light brown hair and pale blue eyes, moves around town in the backseat of a car, a Hindi newspaper covering his face.
He gets to the ships by launch, or sometimes simply by wading (being 6-foot-3 helps). Once he identifies the items worth saving, Mr. Knego said, he makes the ship breakers an offer, ''based on what I think the market is in India.''
''Then they multiply it by 10, because I'm a Westerner,'' he added. ''And then we haggle back and forth.''
Mr. Knego and his partner of 22 years, Mike Masino, a cost estimator for an aerospace company, have decorated their house with as much of the cache as possible. The living room is centered on a bar from the Aureol, which was built in Glasgow in 1951. Dining room furniture is from the Aureol, the Ivernia and the Stella Oceanis. A stair with a railing salvaged from the Ivernia leads to the second floor, where the master bedroom contains a mirror from the Empress of Canada and art from the Stella Oceanis by the Italian painter Emanuele Luzzati.
For Mr. Knego, living among the items is a kind of deja vu. Growing up in the Hollywood Hills in the 1970s, he persuaded his father, an actor who went by Peter Coe, to take him to see the ships when they docked in San Pedro or Long Beach Harbor.
Thanks to brochures from travel agents, he knew the ships' arrival dates as much as a year in advance, and planned his excursions accordingly.
Once on the ships -- in those days, there was no security to keep him off -- Mr. Knego would take extensive notes on the decor. Those notes and the accompanying photographs proved handy more than 30 years later. When he hears that a ship is about to be scrapped, Mr. Knego knows exactly what's onboard; that lets him decide whether to make the trip to India. (He generally stays in Alang, which is 500 miles northwest of Mumbai, for two weeks at a time.)
Along with thousands of brochures sent to the teenage Mr. Knego by the cruise lines, the notes and photos fill more than a dozen filing cabinets. They compete for space in the house with items like a huge painting of New York Harbor by the British artist William Ware for the Olympia. Mr. Knego and Mr. Masino refuse to part with it, even though they don't have a wall big enough to hold it, which is why it sits on its side in the family room.
But Mr. Knego hopes to sell most of his stock, some of which has traveled the world to end up under tarpaulins in his backyard or the five storage units he rents in nearby Simi Valley. Until the buyers come along, he said, ''I need a bigger house -- or two.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHIP TO SHORE: Top left, Peter Knego saves furniture and fittings from midcentury cruise ships. Far left, his cache fills his home plus storage. Left, his family room bar is from the Aureol, as are the doors bottom left. Bottom far left, the stairwell with panels by Emanuele Luzzati. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TOP LEFT, KAUSHAL TRIVEDI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



232 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ENTRY LEVEL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: When Youth Is a Job Qualification

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
Steven M. Volpe, 21, who graduated in June from the College of Staten Island, parlayed an unpaid spring internship at the New York City chapter of the Alzheimer's Association into a paid summer internship. In August he was offered a job as a social media associate. He lives with his parents in Dongan Hills on Staten Island and moonlights Saturday nights selling business machines at a local Staples.
First, he played: My father brought home a computer when I was about 9; it was a Compaq Presario, and I remember using it to play games like ''Oregon Trail'' and ''Where in the World Is Carmen Sandiego?'' I wasn't ever intimidated by computers; I think I started using them in elementary school in the fourth grade at St. Ann's School, and in high school, I got more interested. 
Then, he tinkered: My parents got me an eMachine, an inexpensive computer, but I learned how to upgrade the software to make it faster, replace the hard drive, stuff like that. In my senior year my father bought a Dell for the family; we kept it in the basement, and my sisters and I did our homework on it. I never watched much TV, so in my spare time, if I wasn't playing sports, I'd research stuff. I called myself a Google-holic.
Hands-on major: I thought I was going to be a history teacher, but after taking some of the core general ed and psychology courses, it seemed like history was all about memorization, and I wanted to do something more hands-on, so I made the segue to media studies. The range of courses you could take made it great: production, marketing and journalism.
Getting the point across: One course was called Media Audiences: some of it focused on microblogging, and we did a couple assignments involving Twitter, which is how I learned how it could be valuable in a corporate way, not just a celebrity way. Using 140 characters to communicate a point is pretty cool. But I'm not interested in what Ashton Kutcher or Diddy have to say. I mainly tweet for corporate releases for the association.
Meeting the boss: On the first day of my internship, I was being taken around the office for a meet-and-greet, and because we're a small office, I even got to meet the C.E.O., Lou-Ellen Barkan. I'd never been in a C.E.O.'s office before. I was expecting just to be helping out with marketing and events, but Ms. Barkan surprised me by asking me to do a research project about ways the organization could profit from the social media. She told me my age made me the right person for the job, so of course I said yes. I mean, what college student would say no to the chance to do a project on Facebook and Twitter?
Keeping it fresh: They had a Facebook account, but they didn't really keep their followers in the know; you can't build followers or awareness if you're only posting once a week or once a month. You don't want to overdo it, but you need to be out there with news and events every other day.
Feeling grateful: I graduated at the worst time in this state's economy, so wow, thank God I got this internship and it led me somewhere interesting. I have friends from college who can't even get nonpaying internships.
Still researching: I'm involved in everything we do -- marketing and events and finding alternate methods of fund-raising through texting and online. I don't know anybody with Alzheimer's, but I'm learning about it. This week I'm going to a dementia awareness lecture, and of course, now I'm researching the disease.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); HOMEWORK (73%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); HISTORY (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATION (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



233 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Makes a Play for Buyers and Investors with the Cruze

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting from Detroit.

 BODY:
LORDSTOWN, Ohio -- With its coming public stock offering as a backdrop, General Motors on Wednesday rolled out the Chevrolet Cruze, its most earnest attempt at building a compact car that Americans might buy because they like it -- not simply because it is cheap.
The Cruze is G.M.'s most significant new-model introduction in the United States since last year's bankruptcy, and the reception from consumers could play a large role in wooing potential investors, auto analysts said. Overseas, where the Cruze was introduced last year, the car is Chevrolet's second-best-selling vehicle this year, behind the Silverado pickup. 
''This is everything for us,'' Mark Reuss, the president of G.M.'s North American operations, said after a ceremony to signify the start of Cruze production at a 44-year-old plant along the Ohio Turnpike.
Mr. Reuss appeared with three red, white and blue Cruzes flanked by a high-school marching band, and a cadre of dignitaries including Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio. The officials suggested that more than G.M.'s future would be at stake when Chevrolet dealers begin selling the car this month.
''The rebirth of the American economy starts right here at Lordstown with a world-class, high-volume car built in the heartland of America,'' Mr. Reuss said.
The Cruze will not be as lucrative for G.M. as bigger, more expensive trucks and sport utility vehicles, but its importance cannot be understated, said James Bell, executive market analyst with the automotive information firm Kelley Blue Book.
''It has a chance to really change people's preconceived notions about General Motors,'' Mr. Bell said. ''Now they're actually going right into the space that they basically gave up to the imports 30 years ago. The business case for the Cruze is to break the perception gap and get people into Chevrolet showrooms that would have automatically passed by.''
But winning over American consumers with a small, fuel-efficient car -- long the domain of Japanese carmakers like Honda and Toyota -- has until now mostly eluded Detroit automakers. ''Just getting on the consideration list is something that all of Detroit has been struggling with,'' said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with the research firm IHS Automotive.
G.M. hopes an attention-getting fuel-economy number -- 40 miles a gallon in highway driving for the turbocharged Eco version -- draws in shoppers. That compares with ratings of up to 36 m.p.g. for the Honda Civic and 35 m.p.g. for the top-selling compact, the Toyota Corolla.
G.M. also is emphasizing safety, another forte of the Japanese automakers, by installing features like 10 air bags and traction control as standard equipment.
With a starting price of $16,995, the Cruze costs more than most of its competitors, but G.M. argues that it provides a better value, with amenities like air-conditioning and power locks that are basics in higher-end models but extra on most compacts. That approach helps the Cruze generate more revenue and allows the car to be built profitably at a union plant in the United States. (Most competing compact cars are built at nonunion plants or in other countries.)
The Cruze is arriving as competition among small cars is heating up, even though stable gas prices have contributed to a 5 percent decline in sales for that segment this year.
Ford Motor will introduce a redesigned version of its compact, the Focus, in early 2011. Hyundai and Honda also have revamped models on the way for next year.
The even smaller Ford Fiesta has been in high demand since its introduction this summer, and Chrysler will bring out the tiny Fiat 500 around the end of the year. G.M. is planning a new version of its subcompact, the Aveo, for next year.
To build the Cruze, G.M. has added a third shift at the Lordstown plant, which is operating around the clock after being down to a single shift during the height of the recession. The plant now has about 4,500 workers, including 800 who transferred from elsewhere at G.M.
Though G.M. has spent more time in the last few years promoting the Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid car, Mr. Reuss said the Cruze would have a bigger effect on G.M. financially, at least in the short term.
''This is our first demonstration that we're going to win in this marketplace,'' he said.
While G.M. was showcasing the Cruze in Ohio, the automaker's new chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, held his first town hall meeting with employees in Detroit. Mr. Akerson, who took over the job Sept. 1 from Edward E. Whitacre Jr., said he wanted the company to ''take an attack mentality to the business'' and become an aggressor in the marketplace, according to people who viewed an internal webcast of the event.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The first Chevrolet Cruze, General Motors' latest entry in the compact car market, rolled off the assembly line on Wednesday in Lordstown, Ohio. Mark Reuss of G.M. was behind the wheel, and Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio was his front-seat passenger. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: TED STRICKLAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



234 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Growing Appreciation for P.R. On Madison Avenue

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE recently acquisitive MDC Partners is at it again, with a deal that is indicative of the growing recognition along Madison Avenue of how much more interested marketers are becoming in using public relations to reach consumers.
Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners in New York, which is owned by MDC, is acquiring a majority stake in Kwittken & Company, a public relations agency in New York with annual revenue approaching $10 million and clients like Better Homes and Gardens Real Estate, McGraw-Hill and Thomson Reuters.
The acquisition is costing MDC an estimated $10 million to $15 million. Kwittken will become an operating unit of Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal, the second-largest MDC agency after Crispin Porter & Bogusky. Additional information about the deal is to be announced on Thursday by executives of Kwittken and Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal. 
The transaction is the third in five months for MDC involving a public relations agency; the others were Sloane & Company in New York, in April; and Allison & Partners in San Francisco, in May. And it is the sixth deal over all for MDC since last September.
None of the six agencies in which MDC has bought majority stakes specialize in traditional ad tasks like creating television commercials. Rather, their specialties, in addition to public relations, include social media, database marketing, experiential marketing and analytics.
Marketers want ''to find firms that can deliver performance,'' said Miles S. Nadal, chairman and chief executive at MDC, which is based in Toronto, and public relations agencies are excelling in ''understanding the changing dynamics of the marketplace,'' as what happens with a campaign in social media and earned media has become as important as its presence in paid media and owned media.
As a result, Mr. Nadal said, ''we love the P.R. space -- social, blogging, crisis management, events.''
Although public relations was not immune to the downturn in marketing communications last year, the industry has been rebounding faster than it did during its last slump in the wake of the dot-com bust, the trade publication Advertising Age reported.
''P.R. is taking on a higher strategic importance based on its unique role in amplifying a brand's message in today's digitally focused, social media world,'' said Lori Senecal, president and chief executive at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal.
Kwittken and her agency got to know each other, Ms. Senecal said, when they teamed up to work on a project for WGSN, a fashion trend forecaster in London. ''It went successfully,'' she recalled, ''so we thought, 'There's something more here.' ''
Kwittken will join operating units of Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal that also include Dotglu, for digital and customer relationship marketing; Lime P.R. and Promotion, which works primarily on consumer brands; and Media Kitchen, which offers media services like planning, buying and search-engine marketing.
Kwittken's services include brand management, reputation management and issues management. The agency was opened in 2005 by Aaron Kwittken and Jason Schlossberg, who had worked together at what is now Euro RSCG Magnet in New York, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas.
''I really missed being part of a larger organization,'' Mr. Kwittken said, ''and I'm looking forward to being part of one so like-minded,'' in that Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal ''is an agency that values public relations and invests in it.''
The 22 employees of Kwittken will remain with the agency, said Mr. Kwittken, 39, who continues as chief executive and managing partner. Mr. Schlossberg, 37, continues as president and partner, and both he and Mr. Kwittken will have minority ownership stakes in the agency. Mr. Kwittken will report to Ms. Senecal.
MDC and Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal have been busy lately in adding to the services offered by the agency to clients, which include BMW of North America, Church's Chicken, Coca-Cola, Mohegan Sun, the Pinnacle Foods Group and Weight Watchers International.
Adrenalina, an MDC agency specializing in marketing to Hispanic consumers, was recently merged with Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal. So, too, were two MDC agencies in Atlanta: Fletcher Martin and TrendCore, which gave Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal an Atlanta office, its first outside New York since 2006, when an office in San Francisco was closed after nine years.
Last fall, MDC described plans to spend $100 million on acquisitions in the coming 12 to 18 months. ''Already, we've spent $75 million,'' Mr. Nadal said, ''and we've got lots more planned.''
Although ''nobody knows what'll happen in the short term,'' Mr. Nadal said, referring to the economy, ''we're going to be in a continued slow recovery.'' He wants MDC to be prepared to take advantage of the ''consistent spending of a lot of marketers,'' he added, even if others are cutting budgets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lori Senecal of Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal, with Jason Schlossberg, left, and Aaron Kwittken, who opened Kwittken. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); SOCIAL MEDIA (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); DATABASE MARKETING (77%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); BRANDING (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (65%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (62%)

COMPANY: BETTER HOMES & GARDENS REAL ESTATE SERVICE (72%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (70%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%)

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (72%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (72%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



235 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; THE GIMLET EYE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Naomi Campbell: Model, Citizen

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
''I HAVE a past,'' Naomi Campbell said on Tuesday. ''I'm not proud of my past, some of the circumstances I was in. I've said that a hundred times. But I admit to my past. I own it. I don't deny it. Denial is a very bad thing.''
Some people receive a gold watch after 25 years on the job, but Naomi Campbell has already received all the bling a girl needs for one lifetime. ''I get gifts all the time,'' she said in August in The Hague at the war crimes tribunal of the former Liberian dictator Charles G. Taylor. ''Sometimes in the middle of the night,'' she added, ''without knowing who they are from.''
It was the middle of one night 13 years ago that lackeys for Mr. Taylor apparently dropped off two or three ''dirty-looking stones'' to Ms. Campbell. Whether that gift of diamonds was sufficient evidence to link Mr. Taylor to charges of financing a murderous regime using conflict diamonds seemed briefly beside the point back then. 
Anyway, it was narratively less compelling for one brief moment than the spectacle of a statuesque beauty wearing the sort of chaste ivory cardigan and tight sheath favored by bad girls in noir films, and an amulet to ward off the evil eye, taking the stand at The Hague and coolly hijacking an international news cycle otherwise caught up in two wars, a looming double-dip recession and biblical floods in Pakistan.
''Did you see her on the stand?'' asked Bethann Hardison, the model agent, and a Vogue Italia editor, who has known Ms. Campbell since the model was a baby-fat newcomer of 14. ''When they dragged her into court she looked like the brown Lana Turner. It looked to me like The Hague needed promo. You bring Naomi in, you get that sensationalism. It's very simple. The girl moves news.''
Like it or not -- like Ms. Campbell or not -- there is an element of truth in Ms. Hardison's observations. Unlike any other fashion model who comes to mind and also unlike most movie folks or politicians, Ms. Campbell seems to possess the ineffable magnetism that in the Hollywood era might have been termed star power. ''It's the same magic Elizabeth Taylor had and that Marilyn had,'' said the designer Anna Sui. ''You can't help but be captivated by her. It's not charisma. It's more powerful than that.''
Ms. Campbell's appeal is bewitching, Ms. Sui said, because she seems to ''embody what a glamorous person is supposed to be, someone who knows everyone, who gets the loudest applause when she walks through a door.'' It is a sentiment that Oprah Winfrey seemed to second when she remarked to Ms. Campbell in a recent interview that ''you're projecting the image and the image is also who you are.''
Yet asked to explain what it is about herself that makes not just her notorious antics and misdeeds but also her everyday doings so fascinating that tabloids gin up headlines -- as happened last week, from minutiae like her longstanding habit of carrying Pickapeppa hot sauce in her handbag wherever she goes -- Ms. Campbell demurred.
''Fame is not a good word for me,'' she said. ''I've always said, when you say I'm a role model, I don't know what to be. I can tell you this much. For the people who are truly close to me that magic spell don't work. Those are the people who tell me the truth and I need to hear that truth because it's dangerous for me if I don't.''
She is not an icon, she said; unless, of course, she is.
Ms. Campbell is ''an icon rather than a model,'' the designers Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana said this week in an e-mail response to a reporter's query.
The two were explaining what motivated them to produce a series of limited-edition T-shirts celebrating Ms. Campbell's unlikely milestone, 25 years in a business that usually spits out spent talent after a couple of years. The resulting $200 T-shirts go on sale at the Dolce & Gabbana boutique on Madison Avenue during Fashion's Night Out on Friday and feature images of Ms. Campbell shot by some of the biggest names in photography. Among them are Patrick Demarchelier, Steven Klein, Bruce Weber, Steven Meisel and the late Herb Ritts, who once pointed out to this reporter that the singular quality Ms. Campbell brings to the profession is that ''she really gives it her all.''
It certainly seems that way in the images Dolce & Gabbana selected, many of which highlight assets Ms. Campbell has always considered her best: her legs and her behind. The shirts will be sold during a multi-city tour Ms. Campbell plans to make with the designers from London to Paris, Moscow, Hong Kong, Beijing and Shanghai, and part of the proceeds from sales will benefit her charity, Fashion for Relief.
''People are always telling me I need to do more charity work,'' said Ms. Campbell, who, it is often forgotten, was a primary force behind successful benefits to raise relief funds after Hurricane Katrina and again after the devastating earthquake in Haiti last January.
''They say, 'Oh, Angelina Jolie is doing it, she's doing this and that,' and, you know, great! God bless Angelina Jolie, doing all of this where people can see it,'' Ms. Campbell said. ''The charity work I do is not for people to see. It's for me.''
Could this possibly be the same tabloid Naomi, the tempestuous sexpot with cocaine issues, anger-management issues, and a man-killer reputation in her past? Is this the woman who once chucked cellphones at assistants, was fired by an agency on the ground that ''no money or prestige could further justify the abuse that has been imposed,'' and who was called by a Vanity Fair columnist the ''biggest brat in the modeling business''? Is this the diva whose pouting insolence flared briefly even at The Hague?
Giving testimony at the Taylor trial was an ''inconvenience'' to her, Ms. Campbell said on the witness stand, later noting to the prosecutor that she could barely remember the diamonds in question because, ''I find, when I'm used to seeing diamonds, I'm used to seeing diamonds shiny and in a box.''
Is it possible, though, that approaching a professional quarter-century mark and middle age -- her 40th birthday in May was celebrated at a lavish party organized by her billionaire boyfriend, Vladislav Doronin, in Cannes -- have mellowed Ms. Campbell?
''I used to fight everything,'' she said. ''I used to be, like, 'Why am I in a restaurant and that person is staring at me?' I used to put on a pair of glasses and a hat and then wonder, 'How do they know it's me?' That's my irrationality.''
Now, she added: ''I'm a recovering person in progress. Every rehabilitation program I've been in says the same thing: Getting past the denial is half the battle. Take responsibility for your actions. No matter who you are, a banker or a model or an aesthetician, if you don't do that, you'll find yourself living in an insanity world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DIVA: Naomi Campbell at the Cannes film festival in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT SAYLES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (E1)
STAR POWER: Naomi Campbell giving testimony at The Hague in August. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
FLASH: In an Oscar de la Renta show in New York, fall 1999. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAD RICKERBY/REUTERS)
AT WORK: In the Zac Posen fashion show in New York, fall 2003. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT GRIES/GETTY IMAGES)
MELLOW?For Fashion for Relief charity in February in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART RAMSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 CELEBRATION: A T-shirt by Dolce & Gabbana, featuring Ms. Campbell. (E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVIDENCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); WAR CRIMES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); WITNESSES (72%); FILM (70%); DIAMOND MARKETS (67%); FILM GENRES (65%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%) NEW YORK, USA (89%) NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (89%); PAKISTAN (79%); LIBERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



236 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Hope for the Future, And It's in Her Size

BYLINE: By CINTRA WILSON

 BODY:
A NUMBER of art galleries in New York closed their doors after the economy tanked. These tended to be scrappy, up-and-coming enterprises surviving with little more than a rented white box and a discerning eye. They established reputations by sifting through packs of nameless young artists and -- with a little spit shine, P.R. and insider collusion -- gave them a booster shot of recognition, lifting them from total obscurity to a low rung of somewhere.
Client lists tended to be top-heavy with youngish Wall Street sharks, inspired by filthy new wealth to build collections with work by relatively undiscovered artists considered to have favorable odds as investments.
And then all the pretty money went away. The art market, like other markets, becomes conservative when the chips are down -- and hoards blue chips. Collectors went fetal and regressed to their love of oil paintings. The more vulnerable, high-risk galleries died, and the avant-garde, broke again, slumped back to Bushwick. 
I had never been to Debut, having been unaware of its low-key presence on Mulberry Street for the last two years, but the concept behind the store is not unlike that of the endangered art galleries. Lisa Weiss, Debut's owner, explicitly devotes herself to introducing high-quality, innovative designs by new designers with strong aesthetics and original visions.
The interior is, somewhat literally, a gallery; the white walls are sectioned into discrete areas, all featuring the goods of different designers you've never heard of, displayed on racks protruding from the walls next to gallery-type labels traditionally posted next to art installations. Example: ''Julian J. Smith'' the first white card reads in a bold font. At the bottom, ''Inspired by a ratcheted-up sense of futurism.''
And there, hanging next to the card, a handful of very structured, technically virtuosic space-age minidresses with excellent geometric and sometimes plastic-coated details in multiple fabrics, direct from a ratcheted-up future where linoleum comes in Navajo rug prints.
A center display featured the work of the Swedish designer Fannie Schiavoni, who makes exciting accessories out of chain mail, like a rather perplexing exoskeletal brassiere ($413) and a series of chain necklaces that connect two Road Warrior-cum-Xena Warrior Princess armored epaulets to the shoulders: layered metal scales like shingled aluminum guitar picks ($545) -- ideal for the socialite with a Zweihander broadsword in her Birkin bag.
Another display, by the Korean label Sang A, introduced a wild new world of sea leathers. I was fascinated by a matte-black doctor-bowling-bag hybrid. I was told by the friendly young saleswoman that it was made of sea snake, which has a soft, rubbery Braille texture, like a newborn basketball ($1,595). A clutch from the same designer was made of perch (of all things!) tanned red and gold, with scales about the size of a large human tooth. The fish, I reasoned, must have been a monster: one doesn't usually think of them as having pelts.
Apropos of unusual skins, a small row of experimental-looking, mismatched furs on the back wall by Quentin Veron, were made of combinations like ''Fin Raccoon with Goat Gilet'' ($2,160) and resembled wholly new creatures: skunk-borzoi hybrids. Persian heffalump.
I was impressed with a batch of dresses by the British-born, Moscow-based fashion designer Clare Lopeman: very body-conscious, Barbie nude-tone sheaths in a light jersey, printed with amazingly intricate, geometric designs inspired by the diagrams in a Soviet-era dressmaking book, which purported to reverse-engineer French couture for the crafty Communist homemaker.
I became instantly obsessed with Elisa Palomino, a former designer for Galliano, among other houses. The gallery placard next to her signature items informs the Shopper that her line was ''inspired by roaring '20s Japanese illustrator Kasho Takahata.'' Inspired by, perhaps, but Ms. Palomino is much too musical to stick to standards. The original places she goes from this departure point are To Die: stunningly feminine, wise exaggerations of flapper lines. A long, weightless floral dress in transparent, tiered chiffon; cherry blossoms unexpectedly printed on the peachy nylon of an hourglass-shaped down vest; a thick ivory knit sweater with pompoms on the shoulders, teardrop sleeves; and a kind of sea-anemone-turned-harlequin collar made of a wreath of distressed silk strips the width of grass blades.
To. Die.
And this is why small art galleries, and stores like Debut, are necessary. Merchandise from the usual designer suspects may be comforting, but it mostly stops being excruciatingly personal. You rarely find something that speaks to your pleasure centers so purely and directly, it knocks you sideways.
I INSTANTLY went mad, in a very personal way, for a small jewelry collection by Valerie MacCarthy (who, I later discovered via the Internet, is a gorgeous, flamboyant Paris-based opera singer). These creations hit me right in the bull's-eye of a secret, fetishy lust I have never told anyone about: a weird thing I have for vintage wooden speedboats. But Mme. MacCarthy seems to have pulled her Salt of the Earth collection straight from the catalog of my unspoken desires. The pieces are exquisitely carved wood, with little floating silver Art Deco railings redolent of chrome boat trim. I slipped on a ring ($390) and moaned involuntarily -- a little curve of perfectly smooth, cool wood, so delicious to the fingers as to make one reinvestigate, in one's mind, the relevance of ''tactile'' art.
And to think it could happen on Mulberry Street.
Without innovation, museums become mausoleums. To find hope in a marketplace, one must first have enough faith in the future to support newness -- and resist the temptation to go back to the graveyard, dig up and worship the bones of inspirations long deceased.
I'll buy one of those rings someday, when the economy rebounds. Logistics, after all, follow desire. To desire is to have a purpose, to walk toward a destination worth being excited about. Great new art is prophetic. It can sometimes be so ahead of its time that its presence, in a room, seems to be looking back over its shoulder at us from the brightness of its own future, and blowing us an affectionate little spark.
Debut
298 Mulberry Street (East Houston Street); (212) 343-2717.
LE WHO? A whole lot of designers you've never heard of, but you'll be glad Lisa Weiss discovered them. Debut hips you to tomorrow's fashion geniuses before they are haute ... and overpriced.
LE ZOO The furs may be unusual, and the clothes intergalactic, but the staff is laid-back, low key, entirely human and just as bemused by most of the merch as you are.
LE SHOCK OF THE NEW: How on earth was that made? How does that thing even exist? I don't know, but chances are, you definitely need one in your closet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); PAINTING (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (60%); BASKETBALL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



237 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: The Healers Of 9/11

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
This weekend, a Jewish woman who lost her husband in the 9/11 attacks is planning to speak at a mosque in Boston. She will be trying to recruit members of the mosque to join her battle against poverty and illiteracy in Afghanistan.
The woman, Susan Retik, has pursued perhaps the most unexpected and inspiring American response to the 9/11 attacks. This anniversary of Sept. 11 feels a little ugly to me, with some planning to remember the day with hatred and a Koran-burning -- and that makes her work all the more exhilarating. 
In the shattering aftermath of Sept. 11, 2001, Ms. Retik bonded with another woman, Patti Quigley, whose husband had also died in the attack. They lived near each other, and both were pregnant with babies who would never see their fathers.
Devastated themselves, they realized that there were more than half a million widows in Afghanistan -- and then, with war, there would be even more. Ms. Retik and Ms. Quigley also saw that Afghan widows could be a stabilizing force in that country.
So at a time when the American government reacted to the horror of 9/11 mostly with missiles and bombs, detentions and waterboardings, Ms. Retik and Ms. Quigley turned to education and poverty-alleviation projects -- in the very country that had incubated a plot that had pulverized their lives.
The organization they started, Beyond the 11th, has now assisted more than 1,000 Afghan widows in starting tiny businesses. It's an effort both to help some of the world's neediest people and to fight back at the distrust, hatred and unemployment that sustain the Taliban.
''More jobs mean less violence,'' Ms. Retik noted. ''It would be naive to think that we can change the country, but change has to start somewhere. If we can provide a skill for a woman so that she can provide for her family going forward, then that's one person or five people who will have a roof over their head, food in their bellies and a chance for education.''
In times of fear and darkness, we tend to suppress the better angels of our nature. Instead, these women unleashed theirs.
Paul Barker, who for many years ran CARE's operations in Afghanistan, believes America would have accomplished more there if our government had shared the two women's passion for education and development. ''I can only wonder at what a different world it could be today if in those fateful months after 9/11 our nation's leadership had been guided more by a people-to-people vision of building both metaphorical and physical bridges,'' Mr. Barker said.
A terrific documentary, ''Beyond Belief,'' follows Ms. Retik and Ms. Quigley as they raise funds for Afghan widows and finally travel to Afghanistan to visit the women they had been helping. Ms. Quigley has since stepped down from Beyond the 11th because she felt in danger of becoming a perpetual 9/11 poster widow, but she still is working on a series of Afghan initiatives. Ms. Retik, who has since remarried, remains focused on the charity.
Beyond the 11th began by buying small chicken flocks for widows so that they could sell eggs. Another major project was to build a women's center in the city of Bamian, where the women weave carpets for export. The center, overseen by an aid group called Arzu, also offers literacy classes and operates a bakery as a business.
Another initiative has been to train Afghan women, through a group called Business Council for Peace, to run a soccer ball manufacturing company. The bosses have been coached in quality control, inventory management and other skills, and they have recruited unemployed widows to stitch the balls -- which are beginning to be exported under the brand Dosti.
Ms. Retik's next step will be to sponsor a microfinance program through CARE. There are also plans to train attendants to help reduce deaths in childbirth.
Will all of this turn Afghanistan into a peaceful country? Of course not. Education and employment are not panaceas. But the record suggests that schools and economic initiatives do tend over time to chip away at fundamentalism -- and they're also cheap.
All the work that Beyond the 11th has done in Afghanistan over nine years has cost less than keeping a single American soldier in Afghanistan for eight months.
I admire Ms. Retik's work partly because she offers an antidote to the pusillanimous anti-Islamic hysteria that clouds this anniversary of 9/11. Ms. Retik offers an alternative vision by reaching out to a mosque and working with Muslims so that in the future there will be fewer widows either here or there.
Her work is an invigorating struggle to unite all faiths against those common enemies of humanity, ignorance and poverty -- reflecting the moral and mental toughness that truly can chip away at terrorism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TALIBAN (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); CHILDREN (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



238 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Debtors Feast At the Expense Of the Frugal

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Households and corporations alike are refinancing their loans in droves to take advantage of interest rates that seem impossibly cheap. But those same low rates come with a flip side, driving down the income of retirees and others who live off their savings.
It is a side effect of a government policy meant to push down interest rates to a point that businesses and consumers are compelled to borrow and spend again, and yet it is hurting anyone with a savings account.
With the regulated rate that financial institutions can borrow from one another at almost zero, banks are paying savers next to nothing. The average returns on interest-bearing deposit accounts slipped to 0.99 percent in July, according to Market Rates Insight, which tracks bank rates. It is the first time its measure has dipped below 1 percent since the 1950s, when its data begins.
As a result, the amount of money on deposit at United States bank branches fell during the first half of 2010, Market Rates Insight reported this week. It was the first time that had happened in nearly two decades, indicating that people are dissatisfied with how little interest they are earning from their bank accounts. 
Perversely, coming after a devastating financial crisis caused by companies and households that feasted on borrowing, ultralow interest rates are penalizing people who have paid down their debt and are now trying to save. It is also punishing those who rely on the proceeds of their nest eggs to pay the bills.
''It's the whole point of low rates, to entice borrowing and discourage saving, but it means a massive wealth transfer from savers to borrowers,'' said Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com. ''It is a trend on steroids now because interest rates have been cut to the bone.''
For example, anyone keeping $500,000 in a 12-month certificate of deposit earning a rate of 1.5 percent annually -- one of the best savings rates available nationally these days -- would earn $7,500 a year, hardly enough to live on. Just three years ago, that same investment would have generated $26,250.
The new low interest rates are having a personal impact. Take William D'Alessandro, 62, an editor of corporate sustainability newsletters in Amherst, N.H. He has moved from job to job and has no pension but planned to live on savings when he retired.
Now, year by year, Mr. D'Alessandro has had to put off his retirement until he can afford to buy, among other things, health insurance for himself and his wife, to supplement Medicare when he gets it.
''It is fearful,'' he said. ''We have been saving all these years, and now we want to go into retirement we can't. We have been traveling less. What am I going to do if I live to 82 -- or 99 like my grandfather?''
Now, savers are searching desperately for a better return on their money. ''All of our clients are struggling with this,'' said Cary Carbonaro, a financial planner who works in New York City and Long Island. ''It has never been as bad.''
With the jittery stock market posing too much risk for many people, they have rushed to Treasury bonds, which generate higher rates than regular bank accounts or short-term C.D.'s.
But so much money flowing into Treasuries has served only to depress the rate of return on those bonds, to a dismal 2.7 percent a year for a 10-year note; shorter-term bond rates are below 1 percent. Anyone investing $500,000 in 10-year Treasuries at current yields would earn $13,500 a year.
Some savers have begun to pour more of their cash into the corporate bond market, where big companies sell bonds to raise money, usually at a slightly higher return in exchange for modestly higher risk.
As demand for such bonds has soared, it has prompted corporations like PepsiCo and Wal-Mart to issue more bonds at bargain-basement rates of interest. Such companies sold $563.4 billion to United States investors last year, a record, and have sold $238.8 billion more so far in 2010, according to Dealogic, a financial data provider. Yet, economists complain that apart from a few notable corporate acquisitions that were financed largely with pent-up cash, many businesses are sitting on their money rather than spending it. For now, that would seem to undermine the purpose of low interest rates, which is to get companies and consumers spending again.
Nonfinancial corporations were holding about $1.8 trillion in liquid assets in the first quarter of this year, according to the Federal Reserve, a level that has been steadily rising and compares with $1.5 trillion at the start of 2009.
''They don't need the cash,'' said Bernard Baumohl, an economist at the Economic Outlook Group, but they are borrowing anyway because it is so cheap at the moment.
Once again, though, the unusually high demand for blue-chip corporate bonds is driving down the rate of return on those bonds. When I.B.M. sold $1.5 billion of three-year bonds in August, investors received only a 1 percent return.
So some ordinary investors seeking better returns are resorting to lending to companies with shakier credit. The so-called high-yield junk bond market has taken off, with nonfinancial companies issuing $159.6 billion in high-yield bonds to American investors last year, the most since at least 1995. They have borrowed a further $142.4 billion so far this year, according to Dealogic, a financial data provider.
This is giving the ordinary investors a rate of return they used to get from ordinary savings accounts or C.D.'s but with higher risk.
As long as rates stay this low, the plight of the saver will be especially disquieting for those who rely on their savings for a large slice, if not all, of their income. That is a particularly unnerving prospect for pensioners or for people approaching retirement age -- who now want to draw on the interest from their savings to support them when they are no longer working.
''You have spent your life being prudent, building a nest egg for your retirement, and now the returns are terrible,'' said Todd E. Petzel, chief investment adviser at Offit Capital Advisors, a wealth advisory company in New York. ''I am 58 years old. I know lots of my peers who are thinking of retiring, and they are scared to death.''
Among the winners from low interest rates are people taking out new mortgages. The benchmark 30-year fixed-rate mortgage has fallen to 4.53 percent, the lowest in more than half a century, according to Bankrate.com.
At these rates, refinancing is attractive. The Mortgage Bankers Association said last week that 83 percent of pending mortgage applications were for refinancing existing mortgages.
It is good for other kinds of borrowers, too. Marcel Lonneman, a retired AT&T engineer in Jamestown, R.I., said he would like to borrow more, but his partners in a real estate business he is associated with are reluctant to borrow at current interest rates because they think they may still fall further.
''It is an excellent time to be a borrower,'' he said. ''I've paid as high as 21 percent interest in 1981 for a real estate loan and have refinanced real estate loans several times for lower interest rates,'' he added in an e-mail. ''Better a borrower than a lender be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William D'Alessandro is 62 and wants to retire, but fears savings can't support him with interest rates slipping toward zero. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); TRENDS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BANK BRANCHES (70%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); PUBLIC POLICY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



239 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Speeding In Illinois Is Getting More Costly

BYLINE: By ANDREW KEH

 BODY:
Facing a $13 billion budget deficit, Illinois will soon find its coffers further supplemented by a reliable source: disobedient drivers.
Starting next Wednesday, bonds for the most common speeding tickets will increase statewide to $120 from $75. In situations where offenders are not required to appear in court, the bonds effectively act as the fine amount for the offense. 
''Looking at every other state, we realized our bonds were way too low,'' said Judge Jeffrey B. Ford of Champaign County Circuit Court, who was chairman of the Supreme Court subcommittee that began examining the issue in 2005.
Increasing revenues was not an explicitly stated purpose for the study, he said. ''We didn't even know the economy was going to tank when we started on this,'' Judge Ford said.
But, he added, ''Rest assured, you increase the bonds, you're going to increase revenue.''
A representative for Dorothy Brown, the clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois' largest county, said the annual increase in revenue would be approximately $2.9 million for the county's municipalities, $2.5 million for the county and $1.1 million for the state.
''The $75 fee had been in place for decades and had not increased to keep up with inflation or the rising cost of law enforcement,'' said Brian Day, a lawyer with the Illinois Municipal League.
Bond amounts for other traffic offenses, like driving without a seat belt or with a suspended license, will also increase.
In Illinois, revenue from mail-in bonds is divided three ways: 44.5 percent goes to the local government, about 39 percent goes to the county general fund and about 17 percent goes to the state treasurer.
''Illinois is one of the handful of states that's in a really dire fiscal situation, and it wouldn't surprise me if this was an effort to raise revenue,'' said Gary Wagner, an economics professor at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock.
Dr. Wagner helped conduct a study last year that found that decreases in local government revenue resulted in increases in traffic citations the next year. ''When local governments get to keep revenue,'' he said, ''there's incentive to issue tickets.''
The increases come on the heels of a state law enacted in July that takes $15 from each mail-in bond for a fund for the state police, which has been threatened with extensive layoffs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SPEED LIMITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



240 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; NEW YORK FASHION WEEK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4326 words

HEADLINE: The Next Wave

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
THEY are not exactly a New York Six.
Fashion always loves a moment, and none has captivated the industry quite so thoroughly in recent times as the ever-booming population of impressive young designers who have staked their flags proudly in Manhattan. Not a decade ago, the captains of industry were asking themselves who could revive American fashion in the eyes of the world, since the big guns of New York had grown stale, retired or expired, and Paris reclaimed the mantle as the place to be. A Paris Six emerged, as Cathy Horyn, fashion critic for The New York Times, noted in 2005, citing a small group of designers who held the most profound influence over global fashion at the moment, comparable to the Antwerp Six of the early 1990s, or the Japanese designers who dominated Paris in the two decades prior. 
What is most exciting about what is happening in fashion now, however, is that it is not just six names who are making waves in New York, but an entire generation of designers who have the potential to transform what we think of as American fashion. The majority of designers showing during New York Fashion Week, which begins today, started their labels within the last decade, chasing the dream of fashion in a city that has not always been so hospitable to talented designers. In fact, very few who started here since the 1980s managed to survive.
Yet there are more new designers working in New York fashion than at any point in its history, a rush of tenderfeet that one can say with some certainty began in 2002, when Jack McCollough and Lazaro Hernandez, two students at Parsons the New School for Design, sold their senior collection to Barneys New York and became the toast of the industry with their label, Proenza Schouler. Their example changed the way young designers looked at their careers. They no longer had to apprentice for years or scream to be heard -- New York was crazy for the new.
The savviest among them have created businesses that have eclipsed their predecessors in both scale and speed. Alexander Wang, who started his street-meets-couture collection in 2007, reached $25 million in sales last year; Phillip Lim, his contemporary, has flagships in New York, Los Angeles, Tokyo and Seoul. Their generation, which grew up with the Internet and the ease of access to information, is keenly aware of the power of fashion today in popular culture. They are also incredibly well connected, having formed a mutual support network through the many new initiatives designed to promote designers in New York, and uniquely suited to the moment.
''I suppose this is the first generation that has had access to everything in the palm of their hand,'' said Simon Collins, the dean of the school of fashion at Parsons. ''They can find factories on their phones.''
Among the new designers are a handful who have shown the greatest potential, six of whom The New York Times invited to a round-table discussion about their generation, their designs, their business strategies and their futures. Joseph Altuzarra started his sharp women's collection after working at Givenchy in Paris. Sophie Theallet, who worked for years in Paris before coming here, is the latest winner of a grant from the Council of Fashion Designers of America and Vogue magazine. Alexa Adams and Flora Gill, of Ohne Titel, bonded while working for Karl Lagerfeld and found their work complementary. (Ms. Gill was traveling and unable to attend.) Wayne Lee, whose label is Wayne, got her start as a buyer at Barneys. Max Osterweis, of Suno, happened on a great idea while he was traveling in Kenya -- to build a collection that celebrated its textiles and helped revive a garment industry there. Patrik Ervell began making men's wear after working at magazines like V.
What follows is a transcript of that conversation, edited for space and clarity.
Q. Do you feel that you are part of something that is happening right now? Do you sense this shift taking place in fashion?
MS. ADAMS: I would say I do. Especially when I was in school, you just had these huge labels, like bigger older labels, and there was an expectation that you were going to work for them. There wasn't a sense that anyone could start their own design label. But I feel like, even since we started, you are seeing all these people at the same time. I don't know what goes through people's minds, why we are doing the same thing at the same time, but definitely.
Q.Is there something that happened that caused that change? Is there any one reason people started thinking, I can start my own line now?
MS. ADAMS: The only thing I can say is the globalization of fashion, which I think is really amazing. There used to be an idea of an American fashion, French fashion or European fashion, and maybe an Asian fashion or a Japanese fashion. It's not that way anymore. If you are inspired by different designers and different places in the globe rather than just American fashion or New York fashion, then I think people feel much more open.
MR. ALTUZARRA: There is a definite sense of community here, which is very different from somewhere like Paris or Milan. I think it exists more in London, but the idea that you can succeed as a young designer is something very important in the industry in New York. It is something that people want to support. They are looking for talent, and they are looking for new things. I also think, when you look at Paris or you look at Milan, there are just so many really big, huge houses. This is a very practical matter, but they take up a lot of room on the schedule and budgets in general for stores. It's just a lot more difficult to break into those markets.
Q. And you think New York has more room for new faces, new lines?
MR. ALTUZARRA: Yes, people are always looking for what's new, which can be detrimental, because you could be a flash in the pan.
Q. Sophie and Joseph, you both worked in Europe but you decided to start your businesses here. How do you think your presence affects what people think of as American fashion?
MS. THEALLET: For me, I think it's very important to be in New York because, as Joseph said, you don't have the weight of the old-fashioned couture houses that exist in Paris. You don't have this big group, so it's possible for you to make something in New York because the people are willing to know about you and they give you that chance, and I think it's fantastic. You don't find that in Paris for sure, because it's more closed. I was inside that Paris business, but here it's more open. All the designers know each other, we hang out together.
Q. What do you think defines American fashion today? It always used to be good old-fashioned sportswear and practical clothes. Now it seems something that's hard to put your finger on.
MR. ERVELL: There isn't really an aesthetic school you can point to and say, this is what's happening in New York. It really is varied, and there are a lot of directions. But maybe what you can point to is that there is room for a lot of smaller, very specific points of view. I think that is unique here.
MR. OSTERWEIS: I started with the concept I wanted to do something useful and helpful in Kenya and start a business there. I had been collecting textiles there, and somehow I thought fashion would be really easy, because I didn't know anything about it from a business point of view. But I also felt there was a need to have a print-driven line, and I wanted to make clothes for friends so I just did it. And then I realized how hard it was once I started, but we were lucky enough to have support early on.
MS. LEE: You have to be a designer who is receptive to what your customers want, but at the same time you have to have your vision. For me, inspiration comes from when I am away from fashion. I really enjoy going to museums, to new places. That is really when I pick up inspiration. It's from my surroundings, the book I'm reading, people I'm with, conversations I'm having. At the same time you have to have your vision, but you also have to be receptive to what customers' needs are, so you try to find a medium.
Q. What about production, figuring out the retail and editorial worlds? How did you go about doing it? Was it hard for you?
MR. ALTUZARRA: Well, I had worked at other companies before in Paris as well. And I think that was very helpful when I was setting up the company. Just having a global vision of how things generally work with the press aspect and the commercial aspect was something that guided me through how I set up my company.
MR. OSTERWEIS: Doing it in Kenya where there is not a tradition of high-end women's wear being made was incredibly difficult. There's no kind of industry that is pre-existing. We have to work a little bit ahead of schedule just because we've got such a big, difficult production monster that somehow I've created.
Q. Who gave you the best advice?
MR. ERVELL: For me, the most important incubator for my business was the store Opening Ceremony. I had things in the store, like two or three pieces, when they opened, and really grew within that store for the first two years or so before it was anywhere else. That process of building up very slowly, before having any showing to the press or anything, was really valuable for me.
MS. THEALLET: For my part, it was Janet Brown, in Port Washington. She was a retailer. I was doing a company called Motu Tane before, and that company stopped. She called me and she said, no, no, no, you cannot stop. You have to continue what you are doing. I am going to call every retailer to say to wait for you, and she said to my partner, you are to function like an iPod. She helped us to make that decision to continue and make Sophie Theallet a brand.
Q. Did you say function like an iPod? What does that mean?
MS. THEALLET: Yes, to be really strong, and you are to make decisions really fast, and don't think about the problems that you are going to have. You have to go, and that's it. We don't want to hear about complaining or whatever. Just go.
Q. Well, that brings up an interesting point. Michael Kors, just before the C.F.D.A. awards this year, made a comment about how quickly the spotlight shines on new labels today. He said: ''The spotlight is so quick, it's really hard to start anything under the radar. I don't know if you can still let a business percolate and grow naturally.'' How do you all cope with the speed of exposure that is a result of the media frenzy, as well as the Internet age, and can you work it to your advantage?
MR. OSTERWEIS: We got a lot of attention, even before we had a single piece in a store. We had Time magazine come to Kenya to spend a week with us two or three months before we had anything in the stores because they were interested in the business model. I also talked to you before I had a single piece in a store, which meant that we had to control our growth, because our capacity wasn't there. We still control it, because we are building the capacity.
MR. ALTUZARRA: I think you can control the limelight. I mean, you don't have to say yes to everything. You can pick and choose and decide how you want to grow. Of course the Internet part is a little harder to control, but at least for magazines and for written press, I think that you can completely control how much exposure you get. The way I look at the development of the brand, it has been really important to wait for the right things to come along and not just jump on the first story that was offered to us. It is true that there is a thirst for newness in New York, and it's easy to build something up, but when you are building it so fast, it's also very easy to collapse. I think if you control the way that you build your brand, image-wise, but also in terms of distribution, you have a much more stable base over all.
MS. ADAMS: I would definitely agree with that. For all of us who are new, it's actually a huge opportunity. It's almost like, not a democratization of fashion, but something where there is this limelight that is looking for new things. You get the choice of what exposure you want, instead of begging to be part of a story of older brands and bigger companies. I especially like all the blog and Internet press, because I think it's really interesting to see all different people's viewpoints. Fashion doesn't have to be so monolithic or just one voice.
Q. What goes through your head when you have a show?
MR. ERVELL: Anxiety and stress. It's not fun at all. I mean, really, it's such an archaic way of showing clothes if you're just doing a runway show with people sitting down. It's kind of bizarre if you think about it. It doesn't really make that much sense, the logistics of it, getting everybody there on time and sitting down. But at the same time there is a kind of magic that happens. So it has its plusses and minuses, but what you think about is that it is incredibly stressful.
MS. THEALLET: I would love to send a tape to the journalists and that's it, but it's not possible, really, because the people complain about the show, but at the same time they need to go to the show to see what you are doing. I know it's not an easy way, so I'm doing a presentation this year, so it will be a bit different.
Q. There's a lot of noise around the shows these days. What do you think is driving the either the interest in New York in fashion or in Fashion Week?
MS. ADAMS: I think it's the energy, and fashion as entertainment, which I think is a shame. I'm interested in more of a craft tradition or working with interesting materials or the idea of a personal relationship with clothing. Everyone wants to go to a show, but you can see it in any picture anywhere on the Internet one hour afterwards -- or at the same time if we stream the shows. In terms of who I wanted to reach, there is a specific person who feels something in common with the clothes, rather than the idea of fashion as reality entertainment or drama.
MR. ALTUZARRA: There is also a lot of curiosity in general. To me, a lot of it is fueled by blogs and the Internet. Look at Anna Dello Russo's fame, thanks to the Internet. It's incredible to me that people outside of the industry know who Carine Roitfeld or Anna Dello Russo are because it's such a really small, insular heart of the fashion industry. A lot of people that I seem to see in front of show venues are just there to take pictures or to see people going into the show, not even necessarily trying to get in.
Q. Does that ever make you feel like a novelty in that regard, having everybody watching you?
MS. THEALLET: If you choose to do fashion, anyway, you make the choice to be watched. Somewhere, even if you don't want to say it, you want the people to watch after you. We're all here because we want success. That is also the reality of why we are doing what we are doing, because we can do another job.
Q.We're also at a point where there are a lot of new initiatives that are designed to help designers survive in New York, from the Council of Fashion Designers of America and Vogue and the Fashion Incubator around the corner. Have these things really helped designers in New York?
MR. ALTUZARRA: Yes, definitely. These initiatives are very specific to New York. They were definitely a big draw when I decided to open the company in New York. I think there is a monetary and financial aspect to all of these initiatives. They just help you out with money. But there is also a huge press aspect to it as well and exposure that is very rare. It doesn't really exist in other cities. It doesn't exist in Paris. It doesn't exist in Milan. The amount of exposure you get from the C.F.D.A. Vogue Fund is really astonishing.
Q. Who inspires you as designers? Who are your role models?
MR. ALTUZARRA: I think, not necessarily aesthetically, but as a business, Dries Van Noten is a really interesting business, because it's based on clothes, which seems pretty much near impossible. It's privately owned. It seems like a very stable business. And it's a pretty big business. Whenever I go into an appointment with a store and I ask what's selling well, it's always Dries Van Noten, pretty consistently.
MR. OSTERWEIS: I like Dries as well, and I think Junya Watanabe and Rei [Kawakubo] I like quite a lot.
MS. ADAMS: Even before we started our company, I have always been inspired by the way Raf Simons has grown his business.
MR. ERVELL: When I was a teenager in the '90s, I was looking a lot at Helmut Lang. When I think about what's a good business model or what's a good approach to treating a brand and all these things, I always think the way he did it was impressive.
MS. THEALLET: Of course, Azzedine Alaia, for the way that he is, because he is doing collections exactly as he wants. Dries, as you say, for the way that he makes a business, and Prada also. And Yves Saint Laurent for his personality and for what he did in fashion.
MS. LEE: I really admire Martin Margiela. He is very visionary, but he has always paced his exposure, and his line always stays true to what he believes.
Q. So not one American designer? Do you think that's telling?
MR. ALTUZARRA: I was thinking about this before. A business like Ralph Lauren I admire. I just don't know if that is something that can really be achieved anymore. That level and that size, that all-encompassing product range, that lifestyle. I just think it doesn't feel like it's really possible anymore. On that scale, something like Prada is a little more attainable. What I think is interesting about Prada is that there is also this idea of a created heritage. Prada is not that old of a brand, but it feels really old, which I think is really smart, which is what Ralph Lauren did. Essentially he appropriated America as his legacy and his heritage.
Q. What did you mean when you said it would be impossible just to sell and design clothes today?
MR. ALTUZARRA: That's exactly what I meant. There is a very interesting disconnect, sometimes, between what clients are looking for and what buyers are looking for and what designers are making. You can do something really well in Italy with beautiful fabric, and it's going to cost $2,000 at retail, but Zara is going to make the same thing in Portugal, one month later, for $250. The people who are really discerning will buy your product, but most of them will just want the look of what you made and buy it at Zara. I think it's become harder to have a big business based on clothes. There are very practical financial concerns, like you have much smaller margins. There's demand for high-quality clothing with high perceived value at a lower cost. We've tackled this issue by keeping our cost structure very, very small. We're an extremely small team, basically making sure that we build our sales before building basically the infrastructure of our company and the cost structure of a company.
MR. ERVELL: I don't know if I've figured out the secret, but something that has helped a lot, especially in the last six months since we launched it, is online retail, selling at retail price directly to the customer online. That has changed the way the business is run.
MR. OSTERWEIS: Do you sell internationally online?
MR. ERVELL: We do, but mostly the orders come from North America, which is understandable.
MS. ADAMS: We've had a huge amount of growth in China, which has really been interesting. I guess politically or economically, you are seeing there is more money in China, and people are interested in buying clothing from new designers. They are really open, so for us, we've seen a lot of growth there. It's been surprising and interesting. Age really isn't an issue for us in Asia, especially in China.
Q.Is China on your minds today? Everyone in the industry is trying to figure this out. Given that yours are new businesses, what can you do?
MR. ERVELL: For me also, Asia -- non-Japan Asia -- has been really big for me, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan and also now starting mainland China. It's a mystery to me, because I've never been there, but at the same time, it seems to work and they seem to be interested. They buy it well and they are informed. It's been a really big part of our growth in the last year or two.
MR. ALTUZARRA: Do you make a different product line for them?
MR. ERVELL: No. Same wholesale prices.
MS. ADAMS: We don't do different sizing. We do the same thing as we do for everyone else.
Q. We've heard from a lot of stores that young women in their 20s are just not as brand loyal as their predecessors might have been. How do you as designers deal with this generation that is shifting away from brands?
MS. ADAMS: I actually think it's fantastic because it's not so much about people obsessing over a brand, or over perceived luxury. I don't know about everyone here, but that's the way I dress. If I see something I love, whether it's vintage or our own clothes or some shoe I find really beautiful that I see, that's how I dress rather than feeling like I'm only going to buy one look. Someone's going to tell me how I should dress? Or what my look for the season should be, and I'll buy a designer head to toe? I just don't think that's realistic to how people want to dress. And to me, I think it's freeing for how we design our clothes.
Q.Do you have to design a certain number of sweaters and pants with the stores and magazines in mind? Especially online sites where they are really focusing on categories when you're shopping?
MS. ADAMS: I think about categories, definitely. You want a well-rounded collection. I don't want to just have some items and then miss out on something else. We also see what people are interested in, in terms of what we buy, what sells better, or what people are particularly interested in. The good thing about having your own business is that you see how you are being received, but also, you have the power to make the decision of what you are actually going to design.
Q. What was the single best decision that you have made?
MR. ERVELL: I think just starting small and slow, and that's not everyone's approach. It was mine. I literally just started with two or three pieces in a friend's store and just built it very gradually from there.
MS. THEALLET: To apply to the C.F.D.A., because it made my name recognized as an American brand. People were thinking I was a Frenchwoman who does fashion and comes to New York to sell to New York, which I am not doing. My company is American, and everything that I am doing actually is done in New York.
MS. LEE: I think the single best decision was for me to have a smaller company structure. I take over a lot more responsibilities, and, in a way, I get to learn a lot more.
MR. ALTUZARRA: I'd have to agree, that's also the best decision I've made, to keep the company very small and the infrastructure very small.
MS. ADAMS: I would say for me, probably to work with another partner. Myself and Flora design together, and we have a third partner, Stephen [Courter], who works with us on the financial side, on the press and sales, and also merchandising. That has been really freeing and helpful for us, business-wise, because we can focus on the collection.
MR. OSTERWEIS: For me, I think it was hiring Erin [Beatty], who I design with. For one, she knew what she was doing, and two, she also has worked in big companies and small companies, so she also had a big say in how we structured the company. I definitely needed a lot of hand-holding. I probably still do.
Q. Well there's also a new generation of press out there, the fashion bloggers. What do you think of them? Do you take them as seriously as you take the traditional media, or more so? And whom do you follow?
MR. ERVELL: I think some of them are really insightful and have really interesting things to say. Going back to Twittering and things like that, I think there's an advantage in keeping that at arm's length as a designer. If people know that you're going to the grocery store or...
MS. THEALLET: ...doing your laundry...
MR. ALTUZARRA: I think it's like a pendulum, and now we're in this moment where it's just very extreme. I have a feeling that if all of a sudden, if everyone is Twittering, and everyone is live-streaming their show, there is going to come a point when everyone is going to want to see the show that is not live streamed. They are going to want to know what someone who is not Tweeting is doing.
Q. What do you think the future of this city's fashion is going to be?
MS. THEALLET: I thing it's becoming more and more huge. I think people are really watching more and more what's going on in New York with all these new designers. I think people are looking at what's going on, because there is a lot of effervescence and it's great. It's a takeover.
MR. ERVELL: I'm guessing it's probably harder to start a company now than it was four years ago. The economy, it's a completely different world now. Maybe there was a window where there was a lot of space to start new. To start new now might be harder.
Q. One last question: How do you know that you've made it?
MR. OSTERWEIS: Give us a few years.
MS. THEALLET: When I'm going to have an atelier the way that I dream, because so far, I am a really small company. I have like two persons working with me: my partner, myself and my seamstress and that's it. So when we know that we are going to make it, I'm going to send you a postcard from an island.
MS. LEE: I think we've all made it. We're all actualizing our dreams. We're all doing what we want to do, so in a sense, we've made it.
How to Catch Rising Stars: THE six designers who participated in the Times's round table will present their spring collections during Fashion Week. While the shows are not open to the public, their new looks can be viewed online soon after each show at nytimes.com /fashionweek. Ohne Titel Exit Art Sept. 11; Noon Altuzarra Milk Studios Sept. 11; 8 p.m. Patrik Ervell Milk Studios Sept. 11; 3 p.m. Wayne Ceco Sept. 13; 1 p.m. Suno Milk Studios Sept. 11; 7 p.m. Sophie Theallet Lincoln Center Sept. 14; 6:30 p.m.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RISING STARS: Left to right, from top, the fashion designers Max Osterweis, Joseph Altuzarra, Alexa Adams, Sophie Theallet, Patrik Ervell, Wayne Lee. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
WAYNE LEE: Her camouflage sportswear and gently smocked dresses have been a contemporary zone hit.
PATRIK ERVELL: Two looks from his refined fall collection that combined elements of uniforms with American sportswear.
MAX OSTERWEIS: He offers a fresh take on traditional Kenyan textiles. (DESIGNERS' PORTRAITS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTOGRAPHS OF MR. ERVELL'S DESIGNS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTOGRAPHS OF MS. LEE'S DESIGNS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTOGRAPHS OF MR. OSTERWEIS'S DESIGNS BY SUNO.) (E16)
SOPHIE THEALLET: Her clothes look super simple but are surprisingly intricate in construction.
ALEXA ADAMS: Her designs with Flora Gill for Ohne Titel combine collages and stunning treatments of fur.
JOSEPH ALTUZARRA: The stylish young designer brings a sense of tailoring that is sexy and rigid. (DESIGNERS' PORTRAITS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTOGRAPHS OF MS. THEALLET'S DESIGNS BY ERIN BAIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PHOTOGRAPHS OF MS. ADAMS AND FLORA GILL'S DESIGNS BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PHOTOGRAPHS OF MR. ALTUZARRA'S DESIGNS BY JENNIFER ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); SALES FIGURES (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



241 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Latest Fed Report Finds Signs Growth Is Slowing

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The United States economy showed ''widespread signs'' of slowing, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday, though modest growth continued from mid-July through the end of August.
The latest regional survey by the 12 district Federal banks, known as the beige book, described an economy in which many sectors, from consumer spending to manufacturing, continued to expand. But there were also ''widespread signs of a deceleration,'' the report said.
In at least five of the 12 Fed districts -- New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago and Richmond, Va. -- conditions were ''mixed'' or had slowed, the report said. 
''It suggests we are not going into a double dip, but it just suggests we are slowing,'' John Canally, an economist for LPL Financial, said of the report. ''It tells me the Fed is on hold for a very long time. There is no indication here that they are worried about wages or prices getting out of control.''
The publication, which is based on information supplied by business contacts in the different regions, confirms the thrust of much of the economic data in the last month that has shown a sluggish pace to the recovery. Gross domestic product has been revised downward to 1.6 percent from 2.4 percent for the second quarter and the housing market has slumped.
In its report, the Fed said the economy had continued to pick up, but that growth had been uneven and in some regions, had started to slow.
''I think there has been a change in perception that the economy has turned the corner and put aside a lot of these fears of a double-dip recession,'' said Michael Dueker, head economist for North America at Russell Investments.
''People might be dismayed at the slow rate of recovery of the economy, but at the same time people are starting to realize the economy has turned the corner,'' he said.
Brian Bethune, IHS Global Insight's chief United States financial economist, said the ''frank description'' by the Fed of widespread deceleration ''suggests a great deal of concern about the direction of the economy.''
Federal Reserve officials signaled in August that their confidence in the recovery had dimmed, and took measures to keep interest rates low and encourage growth. With short-term interest rates already close to zero, Fed officials announced plans to use the proceeds from the central bank's huge mortgage bond portfolio to buy long-term government debt.
Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said in Jackson Hole, Wyo., last month that the central bank was determined to prevent the economy from slipping into a cycle of falling wages and prices, and that he expected modest growth in the second half of the year to expand in 2011.
The survey touched on many of the topics that have concerned the markets since the start of the recession, like the effect of household debt and the housing market on the economy.
The Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, is to meet on Sept. 21.
The survey found that consumer spending, which is crucial because it dominates the overall economy and because of its implications for the job market, appeared to increase even though there was an emphasis on essential and lower-priced goods with limited spending on big-ticket items.
Generally, most districts reported that retail sales picked up, though not in Atlanta, New York and Dallas, where they either slowed or declined.
A separate report from the Fed showed that consumer borrowing fell in July as the use of credit cards continued to shrink. Borrowing declined at an annual rate of $3.6 billion in July, the 17th drop over the last year and a half. The fall compared with a $1 billion decline in June.
According to the beige book, manufacturing expanded in most districts. A rise in manufacturing has been a bright spot in the recovery because it is considered a portent of possible hiring.
The survey noted modest improvements in credit quality, according to reports from financial institutions, and found that loan demand was lower or generally stable.
Upward price pressures remained limited for most categories of goods and services, although they were higher for such commodities as grains, according to the Dallas and San Francisco districts, and industrials materials, the survey said.
Several districts, including Atlanta, Chicago, San Francisco and Kansas City, Mo., reported that businesses absorbed higher costs to avoid passing them on to consumers.
Wage pressures were also limited. The survey said that over all, the pressures remained modest, with most of the districts that commented on wages reporting that there was little or no upward pressures or increases.
But there were exceptions. Dallas, for example, said that wage pressures were nonexistent, except for airline and temporary workers. Wage pressures inched up in Boston, Chicago and Kansas City as employers dealt with a mismatch in skills between the available positions and the applicants.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: A Steadier Economy With Areas of Weakness: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed on Wednesday. The survey is based on information collected on or before Aug. 30. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (62%); BONDS (62%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (69%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (53%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (72%) WYOMING, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



242 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Underfunded and Over the Top

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The lush $1.6 billion stadium in New Jersey is about to hold its first regular-season games -- employing blue lighting for the Giants on Sunday and green lighting for the Jets on Monday night.
This electronic frill is so that players, fans and owners do not suffer from separate inferiority complexes during home games, feeling like tourists in their own building.
The Jets will suit up cornerback Darrelle Revis, whom they just re-signed for a guaranteed $32 million for the next four years to bat down opponent's passes. Jets fans consider this a reasonable expenditure. 
But if anybody in hard-times Camden -- in the southwestern part of the state -- wants to read about this stadium at the city's public libraries, they better not try on Friday.
The two remaining Camden libraries will be closed every Friday for a year, with employees taking a 20 percent cut in pay. This is better than the earlier plan, which was to shut down the libraries completely. The threatened closings touched a nerve. I heard about them on the radio a few weeks ago, and they stuck in my mind.
''These are people who need this stuff the most,'' Jerome Szpila, the interim director of the Camden Free Public Library, said on Wednesday. ''They don't have P.C.'s at home.''
What a world. As city employees in Camden take a cut in pay and its residents face the padlocking of libraries, the Jets and the Giants can afford a new palace. While it is true that the owners of the two teams paid for the new stadium, the state provided all kinds of goodies known as infrastructure -- and it built the old stadium, which has yet to be paid off.
The $110 million debt remaining on the old stadium was examined by Ken Belson on Wednesday in The New York Times. That amounts to about $13 per resident, some of whom can afford it, some of whom cannot. That doesn't include the millions of dollars in interest on those bonds.
Obviously, there is no direct economic link between stadiums new and vanished and libraries shuttered or unshuttered. But the cost of extravagant new stadiums all over the country suggests a skewed sense of priorities in all of us.
The demand for new stadiums turns sports commissioners into legal versions of loan sharks as they storm into recalcitrant municipalities and threaten the locals for being such deadbeats. Hey, buddy, pay up or else we take away your team.
''Cities compete with each other,'' Szpila noted. ''Philadelphia has a new stadium, so New York has to have one.''
He was referring to the seven-year-old football stadium just across the Delaware from Camden -- part of the movement in which every region tries to keep up with the trend of luxury boxes, where fans can watch games behind soundproof glass.
Giants Stadium was perfectly good, except that people became spoiled in the economic boom and thought they needed to eat shrimp and sip white wine at football games while watching very large men collide with one another.
''I fought long and hard against a new stadium,'' said George R. Zoffinger, the former head of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, sounding a slightly populist note. Zoffinger, who now runs a hedge fund, pointed out the little extras the region supplied to the two football teams, including roads and a much-needed rail link. As for frequent claims that teams provide tangible income to the communities that underwrite them, Zoffinger said, ''That is bogus.''
Everything I learned from opposing the proposed Olympic facility on the far West Side of Manhattan -- which never happened -- confirmed for me that sports do not provide steady, significant income for the neighborhoods around stadiums. Instead, teams charge for personal seat licenses and take over parking and other money-making chores in the deadly cycle of paying for $32 million cornerbacks.
Debts for vanished stadiums in Seattle, Indianapolis and Philadelphia are still being underwritten, according to The Times article, and so are facilities in Houston, Pittsburgh and Memphis that no longer house major professional teams. It never ends.
In Camden, residents can watch traffic heading toward three separate facilities housing the Eagles, the Phillies, and the 76ers and the Flyers. Very little trickles down into Camden, which recently closed a tiny branch library. Library officials proposed a budget of $823,000 but are now barely surviving on the minimal budget of $389,000.
If the state found a way to retire the debt for Giants Stadium, the people of Camden would probably not benefit. But still, every state has its priorities. New Jersey has a $32 million cornerback -- and blue lights and green lights so everybody can feel at home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giants Stadium has been razed and replaced by a parking lot, but a $110 million debt remains. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); LIBRARIES (88%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (93%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



243 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Health Plan Won't Fuel Big Spending, Report Says

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A new government study says President Obama's health care law will have negligible effects on total national health spending in the next 10 years, neither slowing nor fueling the explosive growth of medical costs. 
About 32.5 million people will gain coverage, and health spending will grow slightly faster than projected under prior law -- at an annual rate of 6.3 percent, rather than 6.1 percent, the report said.
The government report, by the office of the chief Medicare actuary, undermines the claims of the law's fiercest critics and some of its biggest champions.
Cuts in Medicare spending, which start in the next few months, and a tax on high-cost employer-sponsored health plans, which takes effect in 2018, will largely offset the cost of expanding Medicaid and subsidizing private insurance for low-income people, said the report, being published online Thursday by the journal Health Affairs.
''In the aggregate,'' said Andrea M. Sisko, the principal author of the report, ''it appears that the new law will have a moderate effect on health spending growth rates and the health care share of the economy.''
In 2009, the report said, national health spending, public and private, totaled $2.5 trillion and accounted for 17.3 percent of the economy, as measured by the gross domestic product. The report predicts that health spending will rise to $4.6 trillion and account for 19.6 percent of the economy in 2019.
By contrast, in February, before passage of the comprehensive health care law, the same team of government experts, using the same economic and demographic assumptions, predicted that national health spending would reach $4.5 trillion, or 19.3 percent of the gross domestic product, in 2019.
The report foresees a big jump in health spending in 2014, when major provisions of the new law, including a requirement for most Americans to have insurance, take effect.
From 2013 to 2014, the report says, overall health spending is expected to increase by 9.2 percent, which is significantly more than the 6.6 percent increase predicted in February.
The report foresees an abrupt increase in private health insurance spending, expected to rise 12.8 percent in 2014, to $1.1 trillion. The government had been predicting a 6.7 percent increase before the signing of the new law.
''We expect that the level of health care spending for the formerly uninsured will nearly double as a result of their gaining coverage'' through new insurance exchanges, the report said. ''For those who previously held individually purchased coverage, many are projected to be eligible for federal premium subsidies.''
The report predicts that some workers will have to pay more out of pocket as many employers scale back coverage in 2018 to avoid the tax on high-cost plans.
Under the law, all states will have insurance exchanges where individuals, families and small businesses can buy coverage. The report predicts that 30.6 million people will be getting insurance through such exchanges by 2019, significantly more than the 24 million estimated by the Congressional Budget Office.
The report offers the first official estimates of new administrative costs. Federal and state agencies will spend more than $37 billion over 10 years creating and operating the exchanges, it said, and ''Medicaid administration costs at the state and federal level are projected to increase by $31 billion over the same period.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); WRITERS (68%); MEDICAID (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



244 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Obama, in Rally Mode, Steps Up Jabs at G.O.P.

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and JACKIE CALMES; Helene Cooper reported from Cleveland, and Jackie Calmes from Washington. David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
CLEVELAND -- Seeking to rally his struggling party for the final weeks of the midterm election, President Obama delivered his most partisan speech of the campaign so far on Wednesday, casting Democrats as fighters for the middle class and Republicans as protectors of ''millionaires and billionaires'' and special interests.
Mr. Obama called for letting the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy expire but making the rate cuts for the middle class permanent. And he suggested Republicans would hold ''hostage'' the extension of the middle-class rates to get the top rates extended as well. 
Republican Congressional leaders fired back quickly that Democrats were proposing in effect to raise taxes. And they united around a proposal on Wednesday from Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, to cut domestic spending and freeze all tax rates for two years -- drawing the battle lines for the campaign's final weeks.
Recalling a campaign visit to Cleveland in 2008, Mr. Obama said: ''A lot has changed since I came here in those final days of the last election, but what hasn't is the choice facing this country. It's still fear versus hope, the past versus the future. It's still a choice between sliding backward and moving forward.''
Mr. Obama chose to speak in the Cleveland suburb of Parma to underscore the contrast with Republicans since Mr. Boehner, who could become the House speaker if his party wins a majority, two weeks ago unveiled a Republican economic message for the election that hinged on extending the Bush-era tax rates.
At times in the president's speech, he seemed to be running against Mr. Boehner, naming him seven times during his indictment of the Republicans.
Mr. Obama had stepped up his attacks on Republicans over the summer. But in his speech here he went further.
''I realize in some cases there are genuine philosophical differences,'' Mr. Obama told a largely sympathetic crowd of around 3,000 at Cuyahoga Community College. But, citing his initiative for small-business tax cuts that Republicans have blocked in the Senate, he added, ''They're making the same calculation they made just before my inauguration: If I fail, they win.''
Mr. Obama's newest proposals to help the flagging recovery, like his earlier proposal for a small-business bill, include ideas that typically have strong Republican and business backing. The new proposals, which the administration had previewed in the days before his speech on Wednesday, would increase and make permanent a tax credit for businesses' research expenses, allow businesses to write off the full costs of equipment purchased through 2011, and provide $50 billion more for infrastructure construction projects.
The administration figures that if Republicans unite to oppose the proposals, as many expect, that will be further evidence of their determination to stymie Mr. Obama.
Mr. Obama differentiated between the Republican Party today and an earlier time when the party, he said, upheld ''a noble Republican vision of what this country can be'' and had statesmen like Dwight D. Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan who ''didn't spend all their time playing games or scoring points'' and ''didn't always prey on people's fears.''
The president acknowledged that ''people are frustrated and angry and anxious about the future.'' But he said that returning to Republican governance would mean a return to the failed policies of tax cuts and minimal regulations that led to the financial crisis and the housing bubble and the worst recession since the Depression.
''There were no new policies from Mr. Boehner,'' Mr. Obama said. ''There were no new ideas. There was just the same philosophy that we had already tried during the decade that they were in power -- the same philosophy that led to this mess in the first place: Cut more taxes for millionaires and cut more rules for corporations.''
Mr. Boehner got out ahead of Mr. Obama's speech. Appearing on ABC-TV's ''Good Morning America,'' he said that extending the top Bush tax rates would benefit small businesses; Democrats argue that few small businesses pay taxes at the top rates.
And Mr. Boehner sought to appear conciliatory in suggesting a compromise that would extend all the tax rates for at least two years, though he said he remained dedicated to making them permanent, a move that would cost more than $3 trillion over the next 10 years.
Other Republican leaders, including the Senate minority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, quickly endorsed Mr. Boehner's call for a two-year compromise.
In effect they were seizing an opening from the president's former budget director, Peter R. Orszag. He wrote in The New York Times this week that while only the middle-class tax rates should continue, passing legislation given Republicans' opposition suggested a deal that retained all the tax rates for two years. Then, Mr. Orszag wrote, all of them should end to reduce future deficits.
Mr. Boehner, in a statement after Mr. Obama's speech, said, ''If the president is serious about finally focusing on jobs, a good start would be taking the advice of his recently departed budget director and freezing all tax rates, coupled with cutting federal spending to where it was before all the bailouts, government takeovers and 'stimulus' spending sprees.''
Even as Mr. Obama sought to unite his party around his political message and his policy agenda, there was evidence that endangered Democrats would go their own ways.
Senator Michael Bennet, a Democrat of Colorado who is in a tough battle to keep his seat, said in a statement that he would not vote for additional stimulus spending and that new transportation initiatives could be paid for from money remaining in the nearly $800 billion recovery plan enacted last year.
''We must make hard choices to significantly reduce the deficit,'' Mr. Bennet said.
Mr. Obama, until this speech, had left it to his Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, to make the case this summer against extending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy. That raised doubts among Democrats in Congress about whether Mr. Obama was willing to lead the fight, or whether he might settle for a temporary extension of the top rates as some Democrats in tough races favored.
In recent days, Mr. Obama got assurances from Congressional leaders that most Democrats wanted to do battle and believed that the public was on their side on the issue.
Yet Republicans seem as certain of the potency of their position against raising any taxes now, especially given other poll findings that many voters have lost confidence in Mr. Obama's handling of the economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama, speaking Wednesday in Parma, Ohio, cast Republicans as protectors of ''millionaires and billionaires.''
 Protesters outside Cuyahoga Community College, where President Obama delivered his remarks on the economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



245 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: In Obama Economic Stance, Risk of Confusion

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
In proposing an economic package this week that includes spending $50 billion on roads, rail lines and other projects, President Obama opened the fall election season by doing what he has done from the first days of his administration: arguing that, in effect, stimulating the economy today and reordering it for decades to come are basically the same thing.
In this way, Mr. Obama risked confusing the voters -- and not for the first time. By consistently conflating short-term and long-term economic goals, the president and his Democratic Party may have missed an opportunity to explain the crucial difference between the two, and they have all but ensured that voters this fall will give them credit for neither. 
Mr. Obama is already faced with the reality that voters have, fairly or not, decided that his first big effort to revive the economy, the roughly $800 billion package enacted right after he took office, was a qualified failure, and that anything tagged as further ''stimulus'' will be cast by Republicans as throwing good money after bad.
But that obscures a more fundamental problem facing Mr. Obama and the Democratic Party, which stems from decisions they made immediately after taking office in an atmosphere of heightened urgency.
Let's start with the premise that for the last 35 years or so, American politics from one cycle to the next has largely been defined by a series of recessions, which interrupted periods of sometimes unsustainable growth. The two parties have perennially debated how best to balance tax cuts and government spending to get the economy -- to use a signature phrase of the times -- ''back on track.''
At the same time, though, the underlying, longer-term economic problem was coming into focus: the United States was slowly moving away from the industrial age and into a digitized and globally competitive world, and that transformation was threatening to displace the middle class and erode the country's economic dominance in the decades ahead.
There were thoughtful liberals who argued, as far back as the 1980s, that policy makers needed to distinguish in the public mind between basic domestic spending, much of which goes to sustain less affluent and older Americans day to day, and the kind of public investments that might give future workers better access to the new economy.
Retooling the education system, installing universal broadband, upgrading rail lines and electrical grids -- these were things that only an active government could realistically do, just as an earlier generation of politicians had built the dams and highways that were the ballast of the industrial economy. Getting such projects done justified some tolerable level of public debt, proponents argued, just as a family might consider a steep mortgage on a home in a high-quality school district to be an investment in the children's success.
And yet, little was achieved by way of investing in 21st-century infrastructure, largely because the public never seemed open to the idea of huge new spending.
Recall now the portentous moment when Mr. Obama assumed the presidency in 2009. In those first weeks, Mr. Obama had an approval rating that reached 70 percent, and he benefited from a clear public consensus that the United States had reached a cataclysmic moment of reckoning in its economic life -- and that neither he nor his party had caused it.
That was a moment, perhaps, when Mr. Obama might have given one of his trademark orations to an anxious public, an opportunity to lay out the different dimensions of the economic crisis in a way that had eluded his predecessors. You could have imagined Mr. Obama's explaining then that the country had to respond in two related but distinct ways: first by spending hundreds of billions of dollars in the short term to avoid a depression, and second by making a series of large-scale investments over time that would modernize the foundation of the economy.
What happened, instead, was this: The administration turned control of the roughly $800 billion stimulus package over to Congress. Congress decided that the most expedient thing to do was to throw every kind of expenditure one could think of, short-term and long-term, into a single bill, because the public was willing to spend the money right then and the legislative politics required addressing the demands of disparate constituencies.
This is what Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, meant when he said that you ''should never let a serious crisis go to waste'' -- that the stimulus bill had to pack in as much investment as possible, because the chance to spend on such transformative priorities might not come again.
Whether or not this was sound economic policy, it was a fateful decision. The long-awaited teachable moment about the need for long-term investment was lost. Mr. Obama would later try, fitfully, to explain the separate need for public investment. But more often, he has done what he did again this week, which is to emphasize the argument that making investments in infrastructure is worthwhile mostly to stimulate the sluggish economy in the short run.
The problem with this argument is that it builds support for neither short-term nor long-term spending. Republicans have had considerable success making the very term ''stimulus'' seem toxic -- and since voters see no real distinction between stimulus spending and long-term investment, they are just as likely to see the latter as a waste of tax dollars, too.
What all of this means for the country is that even if Mr. Obama ultimately succeeds in stabilizing the economy, he faces a political climate that seems to be growing more hostile to the scale of public investment that many economists say the nation needs to keep pace with foreign competitors.
And that, you would think, is the very definition of a crisis having gone to waste.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TAX FIGHT President Obama called for ending tax cuts for the wealthy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); LIBERALISM (65%); CHILDREN (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



246 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: DIPLOMATIC MEMO; In a Speech on Policy, Clinton Revives a Theme of American Power

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- It was not quite as lofty as Madeleine K. Albright's description of the United States as the world's ''indispensable nation,'' but Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton came close to channeling her predecessor on Wednesday in declaring a ''new American moment.''
In a speech meant to showcase the successes of the Obama administration's foreign policy, Mrs. Clinton emphatically reasserted the primacy of American power in a dangerous world. Whether it is American aid after the floods in Pakistan or American brokering of the recently revived Middle East peace negotiations, she said, ''The world is counting on us.'' 
''After years of war and uncertainty,'' she said, ''people are wondering what the future holds, at home and abroad. So let me say it clearly: The United States can, must, and will lead in this new century.''
In an era of engagement and multilateralism, Mrs. Clinton's speech at the Council on Foreign Relations was almost a throwback -- an unalloyed statement of American might. It seemed intended to send a bracing message during a tough election season in the United States, with President Obama battling economic problems at home. But it also sent a strong message about Mrs. Clinton herself.
Fourteen months ago, she stood before the same audience, her arm in a sling with a broken elbow, and spoke about the need for the United States to develop a ''new mind-set about how America will use its power'' -- one based on partners and persuasion, rather than raw force.
Today, as Mrs. Clinton prepares to plunge into Middle East peacemaking, the talk of partnerships and persuasion is still there, but her emphasis was far more on the need for American leadership. She even dipped her toe into domestic politics, if only to argue that the swelling federal debt, and the bitter debate about it on Capitol Hill, threatened America's standing abroad.
''It undermines our capacity to act in our own interests and it does constrain us where constraint may be undesirable,'' she said, ''It also sends a message of weakness internationally.''
In the category of foreign policy achievements, Mrs. Clinton said the administration had put American relations with Russia on a new footing, deepened its dialogue with China and India, and masterminded a global response to Iran's nuclear ambitions.
On several of these, however, it may be premature to claim victory. Mrs. Clinton said, for example, that the United States had prodded the United Nations into passing its most robust sanctions ever against Iran, and that the Iranian government was starting to feel the heat.
''Through classic shoe-leather diplomacy,'' she said, ''we've built a broad consensus that will welcome Iran back into the community of nations if it meets its obligations, and will likewise hold Iran accountable if it continues its defiance.''
But two newly ambitious players, Brazil and Turkey, voted against the Security Council resolution, displeased that Washington brushed aside their effort to broker a diplomatic solution. It is also unclear how much sanctions have slowed Iran's enrichment of uranium for nuclear fuel.
Similarly, Mrs. Clinton said the United States had re-engaged with Asia and with the alphabet soup of economic and political organizations in that region. But none of that has prevented relations between the United States and China from fraying over exchange rates, North Korea and military issues.
Success in foreign policy process, in other words, has not always translated into success in foreign policy substance.
Given the sweeping nature of her remarks, Mrs. Clinton said surprisingly little about Afghanistan, where the United States is trying to extricate itself from a nine-year war, or about North Korea, where it is nervously watching Kim Jong-il's apparent effort to turn power over to one of his sons.
One indisputable success is Russia, where, as she noted, the White House signed an arms treaty that now goes to the Senate for ratification. Calling for a ''detente'' with Republicans on foreign policy, she said, some things ''should just be beyond any kind of election or partisan calculation.''
Mrs. Clinton also drew attention to Sudan, an often-overlooked foreign policy problem, saying that a referendum next January, in which southern Sudan is expected to vote to break away from the north, is a ''ticking time bomb of enormous consequence.'' The United States, she said, was trying to get both sides to confront the potential dangers.
In another eye-catching statement, Mrs. Clinton compared Mexico's rampant drug trafficking to an insurgency and said the drug cartels threatened to turn the country into Colombia 20 years ago, ''where the narco-traffickers control certain parts of the country.''
The last time Mrs. Clinton spoke to the Council on Foreign Relations, she was battling a perception that she had been marginalized. This time, the council's president, Richard N. Haass, ribbed her over persistent Washington chatter that she may one day swap jobs with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to bolster Mr. Obama's chances of re-election (she smiled and ever so slightly shook her head).
Next week, Mrs. Clinton will travel to Egypt and Israel to take part in the next round of talks between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas. Both leaders, she conceded, faced steep domestic hurdles to making a deal.
Still, Mrs. Clinton said, prognosticators who write off the negotiations as an inevitable failure are wrong ''because both sides and both leaders recognize there may not ever be another chance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's remarks to the Council on Foreign Relations differed from those of last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); POLITICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (82%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



247 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Strategy for H.P., Courtesy of Apple

BYLINE: By ROB COX and NEIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Oracle's boss, Lawrence Ellison, may have unwittingly given Hewlett-Packard some brilliant advice. Before snatching Mark V. Hurd to help run his software company this week, Mr. Ellison called the board's parting ways with the H.P. chief executive ''the worst personnel decision since the idiots on the Apple board fired Steve Jobs.''
Extend Mr. Ellison's logic, and Apple could provide sort of a blueprint for getting H.P. back on track. After Mr. Jobs lost a power struggle at the company he co-founded, Apple brought him back about a decade later. It could be time for H.P.'s own Jobsian moment. 
The company letterhead provides the inspiration. Bill Hewlett and David Packard met while they were undergraduates at Stanford and built their first product, a resistance-capacitance audio oscillator, in a garage in Palo Alto, Calif., with initial capital of $538. The trouble is, both men are deceased.
There is still a good related option: Hewlett's son Walter. True, he is known in Silicon Valley primarily as a musician and an academic, having founded the Center for Computer Assisted Research in the Humanities at Stanford. But he has displayed remarkably good business judgment and a passion for his father's company.
Mr. Hewlett led a 2002 shareholder campaign against the chief executive, Carly Fiorina, and her $24 billion takeover of Compaq. That deal, as Mr. Hewlett rightly predicted, plunged H.P. further into the commoditized PC business and hurt profit margins, ultimately leading to Ms. Fiorina's departure and Mr. Hurd's appointment.
Now, H.P.'s board needs a major shake-up. It had already shown dubious judgment over a witch hunt to uncover information leaks. Now it has overreacted to ''l'affaire Hurd,'' and compounded the error by failing to ensure that his departure would not hurt the company. A rearguard legal effort to restrain Mr. Hurd has come too late: the stock has lost $17.5 billion of value since he resigned. By contrast, Oracle's is unchanged.
Mr. Hewlett is no operations man, and his H.P. tenure ended bitterly. But he is an experienced corporate director, knows the company and, above all, carries the spirit of invention and enterprise -- the very essence of Silicon Valley's past half-century -- that inspired the company's founders. It is hard to see better qualities for a new chairman.
Cheap Stocks
Successful long-term investors buy good assets when nobody wants them, and sell when the risk-averse pile in. Bonds are considered to be havens today, after the stock market's lost decade. That could be about to reverse; the great bull market in government bonds is probably over.
Since 1982, when runaway inflation was going to destroy capital, if not capitalism itself, bond investors who took the risk that the beast would be tamed have been hugely rewarded. But the opportunity to buy 10-year Treasuries with a 14 percent yield followed a bear market that had wiped out the value of fixed-interest securities.
Companies had shown more resilience to rising inflation, so around 1960 in the United States, Britain, Germany and Japan, the ''yield gap'' between government bonds and shares was reversed. For the next half-century, the dividend yield on shares was below that on government bonds. Until now.
In Britain, Germany and Japan, shares now yield more than government debt. In the United States, the gap has shrunk to around 0.3 percent. This, says Citigroup, is the end of the cult of the equity -- extinguished by two 50 percent bear markets (after the dot-com mania and then the credit bubble), a glut of equity issuance and the flight of pension funds from shares to bonds.
Yet funds are buying bonds because they (or their advisers) deem them low-risk, not because they believe them to be inexpensive. Today's bond prices signal that inflation will not return for at least a decade, despite sustained and determined efforts from the world's central banks to stimulate it.
The risk that central banks will succeed is not priced into bonds while the risk that they will not -- and that economies will stagnate (or worse) -- is priced into stocks. Yet companies have rebuilt their balance sheets after the crisis, and despite sluggish top-line growth, dividends -- the unsung, vital part of long-term performance -- look sustainable.
Many companies are even raising their payouts. The FTSE 100 embraces a fair cross section of world shares. Evolution Securities estimates its forward yield at 3.8 percent, while 10-year British gilts return 3 percent. Such inversions are extremely rare -- as rare as the best opportunities to buy good assets cheaply.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Walter Hewlett is a son of Bill Hewlett, one of the founders of Hewlett-Packard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (79%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); APPLE INC (92%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (90%); MARK HURD (89%); STEVEN JOBS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



248 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: For Emanuel, Temptation In the Form of a Dream Job

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Rahm Emanuel was running for Congress on the North Side of Chicago, he would often make calls while he was out shaking hands near the city's elevated trains, with their distinctive rumbling sending an unmistakable signal that he was standing in his district.
Mr. Emanuel was born and raised in Chicago, but he has never been seen as one of the city's towering figures. And that, his friends say, is one reason why being mayor of Chicago has long been among his biggest political ambitions. 
But is it better than being chief of staff to the first president from Chicago?
To those who know Mr. Emanuel well, the answer is unquestionably yes, which is why they believe he is seriously weighing leaving the White House in the wake of Mayor Richard M. Daley's abrupt announcement on Tuesday that he intends to step down next year.
''Something like that doesn't come around a lot,'' said Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, doing little to douse speculation about Mr. Emanuel. ''It's no surprise that's a job he's been interested in.''
Yet the decision is complicated by the timing of leaving President Obama and the West Wing during one of the most trying periods for the administration. And there is an even bigger question for Mr. Emanuel to consider: Could he win?
In a year in which political races across the country are causing angst for the White House, the vacancy in Chicago's mayoral race could touch off a dominolike series of personnel changes at the White House.
To keep the issue from becoming a distraction, Mr. Emanuel tried to set the tone on Wednesday by not directly mentioning it during his daily senior staff meetings. But less than two months before the midterm elections, as Democrats try to turn around their political fortunes with a batch of new economic proposals that Mr. Emanuel helped write, several aides said the prospect of a new leader in the corner office of the West Wing was hard for the rest of the staff to ignore.
Mr. Emanuel told friends that he had not yet made a decision about whether to run, but that he would probably make up his mind in the next week or so.
''He has a sense of responsibility to his family, the president and the enterprise,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, who has worked alongside Mr. Emanuel in Chicago for years. ''It's something that he would really like to do, but it's not without complications.''
Mr. Emanuel carries significant weight in Washington, surviving a bruising tenure in the Clinton administration and swiftly rising through the Democratic ranks during his six years in Congress. He gave up his hopes of ultimately becoming speaker of the House when he resigned his Congressional seat to be Mr. Obama's chief of staff.
While Mr. Emanuel has been one of the most active and influential White House chiefs of staff in modern presidential history, there were few signs that the campaign for a rare opening as Chicago mayor would be delayed as he deliberates.
The field of possible candidates seemed to grow by the hour on Wednesday as the news settled in that Mr. Daley truly was stepping aside. For Mr. Emanuel, who gained his first political experiences as a shoe-leather operative in Chicago, the decision over whether to run for mayor is far more complicated after two years in the White House.
In Chicago, a vast patchwork of neighborhoods, every mayoral candidate needs a natural constituency. Several Democratic officials in the city said they were uncertain where Mr. Emanuel's base of support would come from, beyond his former Congressional district on the city's Northwest Side.
Many Jewish voters in Chicago, like elsewhere in the country, are furious at Mr. Emanuel over the Obama administration's policies toward Israel. Several liberal groups inside the Democratic Party, from labor unions to other progressive organizations, blame Mr. Emanuel for playing a role in what they believe as failing to fully capitalize on the party's majority by not pursuing more liberal policies.
Here in Washington, even before Mr. Emanuel made a decision on whether he intended to leave the White House, a guessing game quickly began over who would succeed him. The potential replacements were divided into categories of temporary and permanent, depending on how quickly he would return to Chicago if he decided to run. Nomination papers must be filed by Nov. 22 for the Feb. 22 election.
Early possibilities included: Thomas E. Donilon, the deputy national security adviser; Ronald A. Klain, the vice president's chief of staff; and Phil Schiliro, the president's top liaison to Capitol Hill. If Mr. Emanuel needed to leave quickly, the president could turn to a short-term replacement, including: Pete Rouse, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama who was known as the 101st senator for his long service to Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota; and Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to the president and a confidante of the Obamas.
The departure of Mr. Emanuel, should it take place, would offer a moment for the president to infuse his ranks with fresh energy and ideas. But administration officials said they believed it was unlikely a candidate from outside the West Wing would be selected.
The president has given his blessing for Mr. Emanuel to pursue a campaign if he decides to, aides said, but it was unlikely that Mr. Obama would become involved in the mayor's race. And if Mr. Emanuel moves forward with a candidacy for City Hall in Chicago, he will do so without the endorsement from Mayor Daley.
''It can be the people of the city of Chicago that will make that decision,'' Mr. Daley told reporters, explaining his decision to stay out of the race. ''The people of Chicago can make that recommendation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People who know Rahm Emanuel well believe he is weighing leaving the White House to run for mayor of Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (70%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



249 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Cuba: Communist Economic Model Loses a Stalwart Defender

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Fidel Castro said Cuba's economic model no longer worked, an American journalist reported Wednesday. Jeffrey Goldberg wrote in his blog for Atlantic magazine that he asked Mr. Castro, left, last week if Cuba's model of Soviet-style Communism was still worth exporting to other countries. ''The Cuban model doesn't even work for us anymore,'' Mr. Castro said, according to the report. Mr. Goldberg said that Julia Sweig, a Cuba expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, thought Mr. Castro's answer was an acknowledgment that the state played too big a role in the economy. The comment appeared to reflect Mr. Castro's support for the economic reforms instituted by his younger brother, President Raul Castro. In the interview, Mr. Castro, 84, also criticized President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran for anti-Semitism and denying the Holocaust. He also criticized his own actions during the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis when he urged the Soviet Union to launch nuclear weapons against the United States, saying ''it wasn't worth it at all.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); HOLOCAUST (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (92%); RAUL CASTRO (79%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



250 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Bracing for Cuts, Military Firms Shed Workers

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
Tightened spending at the Pentagon is unsettling the defense industry, with Lockheed Martin announcing Wednesday that one-quarter of its executives had applied for buyouts as the company cut costs.
Officials said most of the 600 executives requesting the buyout were at or near retirement age. But the response shows how significantly the industry has begun to contract as a long surge in military spending comes to an end. Lockheed had expected only 200 or so executives to apply, the company said. Nonetheless all 600 requests are expected to be honored.
The retrenchment at Lockheed, the world's largest military company, seems likely to heighten concerns about further job cuts in the high-paying aerospace and defense industries at a time when the nation's unemployment rate remains high. Lockheed has reduced its work force by 10,000, to a total of 136,000, since the beginning of last year. 
Boeing, another big Pentagon contractor, said Tuesday that it would cut the number of executives in its military aircraft business by 10 percent as part of broader consolidation that will eliminate more than 400 jobs.
The company, which also makes commercial jetliners, has already trimmed 1,700 jobs in its military business as part of a reduction of 10,000 jobs across the company.
And Northrop Grumman recently announced plans to close troubled shipyards as it considers spinning off its $6 billion shipbuilding business.
Northrop announced in late August that it would lay off 642 workers at its shipyard in Pascagoula, Miss., by the end of the year. By 2013, it plans to close a shipyard near New Orleans that employs 4,700 people and shift the work to Pascagoula.
The loss of jobs comes as the defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, has canceled or restructured nearly three dozen weapons programs since last year. And as the growth in military spending slows, Mr. Gates is pushing for more overhead cuts and greater efficiency to free money for the most crucial programs.
Pentagon officials have said they are singling out wasteful spending and that the belt-tightening would not necessarily lead to job losses.
But top industry executives say that it would be hard to meet Mr. Gates's goal of saving $100 billion over the next few years without cutting jobs and closing plants, and that could stir Congressional opposition to some of the proposals.
''It seems that many senior executives expect the future to be less bright, and some of them may be pretty smart to take the buyout since their next chance to get out could be on far less attractive terms,'' said Loren B. Thompson, a Lockheed consultant. He said the buyouts and recent layoffs ''are a sure sign that things are deteriorating for the industry.''
Lockheed's chief executive, Robert J. Stevens, said in a statement on Wednesday that the 600 buyouts would ''enable us to achieve significant cost savings and a leaner management structure at a time when our customers have an urgent need for more affordable solutions to the global security challenges they face.''
Lockheed officials said the buyout offer had been extended to vice presidents as well as directors, a title accorded to many program managers and department heads. The terms were fairly generous. Executives with 20 years at the company could receive a lump sum equal to 1.25 times their annual base pay, as well as $2,000 for each year they had been at the company to help pay for their own health insurance.
The company said so many people took the offer that it would have to hire some replacements. It could not immediately say how much the buyouts would save.
As part of the Pentagon's cost-saving plan, Mr. Gates has also proposed closing a major military command and reducing the number of generals and admirals. The Pentagon's top weapons buyer, Ashton B. Carter, has been talking to industry executives about how to reduce cost overruns and make weapons more affordable.
Like other big contractors, Lockheed has reorganized some of its operations, and it is planning to divest itself of two units. Most of the companies have also been expanding their international sales and adding jobs in hot new areas, like computer security, to try to maintain their profit margins even if Pentagon sales flatten out or decline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CLOSINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SHIPBUILDING (86%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (72%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (97%); BOEING CO (56%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (55%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (97%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); NOC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (55%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (79%); ROBERT J STEVENS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



251 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Debating the Economy

 BODY:
Americans are deeply worried about the economy and their jobs -- and about whether their elected representatives in Washington have a real plan for digging out of this mess. They are right to be worried. But this week, at least, voters were given a clear choice about the direction the country can take in November and beyond.
President Obama -- who took too long to engage this debate -- gave two sensible and, finally, passionate speeches. He said that to create jobs and stabilize the economy, the federal government will have to help businesses invest more, and it will have to spend some more, for a while longer. And he said that the country will never be able to wrestle down the deficit if Congress gives in to Republican demands to extend $700 billion in unjustified and unaffordable tax breaks for the wealthy. 
The speeches were a pointed rebuttal to Representative John Boehner, the House Republican leader, who has spearheaded his party's implacable opposition. In a speech in Ohio last month, billed as the definitive Republican position on the economy, he declared that ''the prospect of higher taxes, stricter rules and more regulations'' was choking recovery.
The president was exactly right when he said that Mr. Boehner's proposals were nothing more than a return to the past decade of economic mismanagement; the same policies that helped turn budget surpluses into crippling deficits nearly destroyed the financial system and cast millions of Americans into long-term joblessness.
''Do we return to the same failed policies that ran our economy into the ditch,'' he asked on Wednesday.
The immediate battle is over President George W. Bush's tax cuts, which are set to expire at the end of this year. Mr. Obama wants to make the tax cuts permanent for families that make less than $250,000 a year and let the tax cuts expire for those who make more -- about 2 percent of taxpayers. Mr. Boehner says he wants to extend all of the tax cuts for two years -- although there is little doubt that the goal of Republicans is to extend all of them permanently.
It makes good sense to extend the middle-class tax cuts temporarily because the weak economy needs the boost, but it makes no sense to extend them for the rich. Middle-class Americans spend tax breaks, while wealthy taxpayers generally save them. In the longer term, more revenue will be needed to keep rebuilding the economy and meet health care and other obligations.
We're not surprised that Mr. Obama avoided that hard truth. But Mr. Boehner and his party's position is an utter denial of reality. In the real world, it was lower taxes for the rich, lax rules and deregulation that hurt middle-class Americans and dragged the economy to this dangerous pass.
Mr. Boehner's much professed concern for small businesses is misdirection. The tax cuts that Mr. Obama would let expire would affect very few owners of small businesses -- how many do you know who make more than $250,000 a year? -- by any common-sense definition of that term.
Mr. Boehner said he was fed up with ''Washington politicians talking about wanting to create jobs as a ploy to get themselves re-elected while doing everything possible to prevent jobs from being created.'' Amazingly enough, he was not talking to Republicans.
Mr. Obama did more than just rebut Mr. Boehner. He also offered some sound ideas -- some that also had Republican support, at least until Mr. Obama raised them. He proposed on Wednesday to allow businesses to write off all the investments they make in 2011, rather than over several years, to close loopholes that reward businesses that send jobs overseas and to permanently extend a research and development tax credit.
Mr. Obama again called on Congress to pass legislation that would make more credit available to small businesses -- legislation that Senate Republicans, for all their claims of concern for small businesses, have delayed passing.
If there is any good news from Mr. Boehner and other Republicans it is that they suddenly want to seem eager to shed their reputation as the Party of No. This week, they suggested that they might be open to some of Mr. Obama's ideas, which include a $50 billion initial investment to create jobs improving roads, rail lines and airports -- as long as those projects were not paid for by taxing billionaires, oil companies and other wealthy corporations. That, of course, is just how Mr. Obama intends to pay for them -- and just how he should.
Mr. Obama's speeches were a robust effort by the president to rally Democrats for the election. It has been a long time coming. And we wish that Democratic leaders in Congress could show the same clear thinking and the same willingness to go head to head with the Republicans. Some commentators are likely to say that Mr. Obama should not have given a national stage to Mr. Boehner, a relative unknown despite his immense power in Congress and his ambition to be the next speaker of the House. But that is just what he needed to do.
For far too long, Mr. Boehner and others have been dominating the political debate with insincere sound bites, Jedi mind games and plain bad economics. How can they claim to care about the deficit and insist on more tax cuts?
The answer, unfortunately, is that they can, and they have, because Mr. Obama has sat on the sidelines and most Congressional Democrats have run for the hills. We are glad to see Mr. Obama fully in the fight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (85%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



252 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; WHO LIVES THERE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3049 words

HEADLINE: The Outsiders

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
NEWPORT, R.I.
''ISN'T it pretentious?'' That was Richard Saul Wurman, a slight figure in cargo shorts, T-shirt and sandals, at the door of his ''super mansion'' -- to use the words of his friend the designer Massimo Vignelli -- otherwise known as the Orchard.
Its double staircase stretched out prettily on either side of Mr. Wurman, the infamously bombastic architect, designer, cartographer and creator of the TED conference. (That's the wildly profitable genius-fest -- TED stands for technology, entertainment and design -- where fractal finders and Apple makers, ex-presidents and cartoonists have mingled.) Above, thick green ivy twined atmospherically. Below him, parked in the pea-stone driveway, a black Lexus sedan sported the license plate ''MOMSIE''; the plate on the white Lexus convertible nearby read ''POPSIE.''
Sure, a visitor agreed, the place was pretentious. 
Mr. Wurman beamed. But the joke's not on him. It's on his adopted city, its name still associated with the last vestiges of high WASP society.
Seventeen years ago, when Mr. Wurman and his wife, Gloria Nagy, an author of social satires, bought the house, a 19th-century copy of an 18th-century French country house that sits on eight high-walled acres, one grown son would tease on his visits, ''Momsie, Popsie, Biff is here!''
''Our kids thought the house was a riot,'' said Ms. Nagy, 65. She wore a long-sleeve white T-shirt and jeans cut off at the knee; her apricot hair was tucked into a white baseball cap. ''Our friends acted like we had moved to another galaxy, like this was the scariest thing they could imagine. One friend in California was furious. She said, 'I guess I don't know anything about you if you could move to someplace like that.' ''
Mr. Vignelli, too, was mock-horrified. ''You don't leave New York to go to Newport,'' he said. ''You go to London, Milan, Paris. In Newport, you know, there is nothing outside your house. All you have is your things inside, and that's the end of it.''
He continued: ''The kind of people there need each other. They need their booze at 5, their costume parties. They need to know who is who, and who married what and how much money. It's a kind of zoo. In that zoo, of course, Ricky has his own private pavilion, and he never goes out. I think he is considered an alien.''
Indeed, most locals, particularly those who live in houses like Mr. Wurman's, have never heard of their famous neighbor. Outside Newport, Mr. Wurman enjoys a happy notoriety as a connector and king-maker. Despite its proximity to nowhere convenient, his house is the hub from which he organized the TED conference -- sold in 2002 for a reported $14 million -- as well as its spin-off, TED MED (TED, with a medical focus), which he still owns, and a host of other synergistic projects and conferences. (In his spare time, Mr. Wurman writes and publishes books; his most recent, a fable about himself, is his 82nd.)
Exhausted by her husband's constant stream of visitors, Ms. Nagy had him turn an old stable here into an air-cooled conference center. During one typical week last month, a member of the Clinton Foundation came to visit, as did a rear admiral, the dean of a design college, a digital entrepreneur, a German urban planner working in Bangalore and Martha Stewart, who phoned as she was driving through town (Mr. Wurman wasn't home). ''I've had better lineups,'' he said later.
ONE hot August afternoon, Mr. Wurman, who is extremely fond of certain profane terms, employed a common one to dismiss his neighbors. Afterward, he added, ''I love living in this house, and I'm not blase about it at all, but this town is an intellectual wasteland without any sense of humor. I've been living here for 17 years, and if you asked me to tell you when I last had lunch with anybody but my wife or someone that came to see me from India or New York or Boston or Germany, I couldn't come up with a name.''
Not that he really cares. The absence of a local social life, Ms. Nagy said, is the price of living here. ''Everything comes down to choices. Nobody gets away with anything. We pay prices for everything,'' she said. ''Anyway, after 12 or 13 years here, I started to meet people.''
In 1993, Mr. Wurman and Ms. Nagy had had eight productive years in a New York City loft. ''We have always worked at home, we are the original mom-and-pop shop, living above the store,'' Ms. Nagy said.
She likes to say that she and her husband are both utterly unemployable. She was writing gently satiric novels; he had made a name for himself as an ''information architect,'' a phrase he coined to describe what he and others were increasingly doing, which was organizing data -- information -- into clear patterns. To wit, Mr. Wurman had created and self-published the Access Guides, intuitively designed and enormously successful city guidebooks, as well as a new United States road atlas; he had also redesigned Pacific Bell's Yellow Pages and written a best seller, ''Information Anxiety,'' which was itself a kind of guidebook or map to information of all stripes, from idle chitchat to that produced by the news media.
A protege of Louis Kahn, the modernist architect, Mr. Wurman had long ago flamed out in the world of traditional architecture. (Years before, he had been fired as dean of architecture and urban planning at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, for not putting in enough hours, he said. Earlier, he had dissolved his own practice because the service nature of the profession and the slow pace of the work was profoundly irritating to him.)
That year, the last of their four children had left for college, and there was no compelling reason to stay in New York. They were negotiating on three-quarters of an acre with a potato silo in the Hamptons, and Mr. Wurman had already drawn up plans for a new house there. But Ms. Nagy was feeling queasy about ''New York with sand,'' as she calls the East End of Long Island, and when she came across an ad in The New York Times Magazine, she was curious. ''For Sale by Owner,'' it read. There was a grainy photograph of the Orchard on its eight acres, with a $2.2 million price tag, half the price of the potato silo. They had never been to Newport, or known anyone who had. Its foreign-ness and relative remoteness were appealing.
''It was a point in our lives when we wanted to get off the merry-go-round,'' she said. ''I didn't want to throw our lives away like the people I write about, frantic and empty and then you're dead. My mother died when I was in my 20s, and I had this heightened sense that time was precious. I didn't want to waste it being inauthentic. I wanted to do better work, dig deep with friends, or by myself. To paraphrase Anita Brookner, 'At some point you're going to have to come to terms with who you are, however unpleasant, if you're going to be anything at all.' ''
It was a Sunday in late spring, and as they drove up the long allee driveway toward the yellow brick-and-limestone house, they saw a chauffeur-driven Daimler and a Rolls-Royce out front.
''An old woman with a boy toy was coming down the stairs,'' Ms. Nagy said. ''And going up was a young vixen with a very old man. Welcome to Newport.''
The vixen nixed the place, Ms. Nagy recalled, because it had no ballroom.
Mr. Wurman added: ''But the bones were fantastic. Everything was original. It just needed some spit and polish, and paint. The bedroom had pink shag carpeting, but underneath was pink terrazzo.''
There were 13 bedrooms, 11 perfectly maintained period fireplaces and 11 perfectly maintained period bathrooms.
The owner, a dealer of Erte prints, pressed a cocktail on them, but they retreated to a local restaurant to clear their heads. Mr. Wurman had a drink anyway. Ms. Nagy got very quiet. ''When she's that way, you know she's wildly enthusiastic,'' Mr. Wurman said.
THE two met 34 years ago, when they were seated next to each other at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art at a tribute to Charles and Ray Eames. ''He was covered in chains,'' Ms. Nagy said, shuddering slightly. ''I thought he was some kind of movie producer.''
Mr. Wurman ignored her during dinner, and later told her he had been staring at her legs for two hours. She thought, ''This guy is really creepy.''
Inevitably, they fell in love. Both were divorced. Ms. Nagy had a young son and daughter; he had two teenage sons. And everyone they knew, including their children, protested the marriage.
''Everyone objected to me,'' Mr. Wurman said.
''He wasn't flat broke, but he was one of those boy wonders that couldn't find his derriere with two hands and a map,'' Ms. Nagy said, raising an eyebrow at her husband. ''I wasn't paying your bills, so how did you manage?''
''I always manage,'' he said. ''In the 30 years since we've been married, I want to finish this one sentence'' -- he added, glaring at his wife, who had started to speak. ''In the 30 years since we've been married, even though I wasn't burning up the world in the beginning, at the end of each year we always had a little more money than before. It was clear we were better together.''
''I cleaned up his rough edges,'' Ms. Nagy said. ''I always had his back, and I told him the truth. And I told him some very tough truths. He was too old to be the boy wonder. Too old to be Louis Kahn.''
''My turn,'' her husband said. ''She's the most honest person I know. Which bothers me sometimes.''
Frank Gehry, who is an old friend -- Ms. Nagy was his first publicist -- describes their marriage as ''a match made in Heaven.''
''They're both healthily ambitious, and they know how to enjoy life better than the rest of us,'' he added. ''Better than I do, anyway.''
Mr. Wurman turned 75 last March. ''I was very difficult to live with,'' he said. ''O.K., I am always difficult to live with, but last year was very hard. I was focused on the birthday, on what happens. I'm a different weight.'' Mr. Wurman, once famously bearlike, had lost 90 pounds.
He added: '' I decided I would celebrate the year by saying yes to everyone asking if I would give a speech, if they would throw me a birthday party.''
Ms. Nagy interjected: ''You have to wait while I throw up all over the table. At 70, he was convinced it was all over, now his phone is ringing off the hook. When we moved 17 years ago, he was convinced it was over, too. I remember buying him a fishing pole.''
''She's a stronger person,'' Mr. Wurman said.
''I'm just a more self-aware person,'' she countered. ''The key to living with Richard is to make him think everything is his idea.''
Mr. Wurman: ''I object to that.''
Can we talk about the house?
''Let's talk about Gloria,'' he said. ''I live with this woman, and I read her books, and I can't believe she has all these ideas and observations and I don't see what she sees and I don't hear what she hears. The dives she makes. I feel so shallow because I'm skimming on the top of the world, happy as a clam, and she's diving deeply.''
''It's called being a man, honey,'' Ms. Nagy said.
But she is proud of her husband, and fiercely protective of his talents. She recalled sitting next to ''a very famous German architect who was very snotty'' and who prodded her to explain what, exactly, her husband did.
Ms. Nagy recalled saying something like: ''What Richard does is allow his brain to operate like a great big cellular Cuisinart, mixing all his knowledge, thoughts, frustrations, observations, visual, conceptual and gathered information and feelings about everything together, hitting the high switch and pouring it all out in the form of ideas baked in one mold or another: conference, book, map, exhibit.''
The architect, she said, retorted: ''Smoke, he sells smoke, unlike what we are doing, which is real creative work.'' He said this while smoking, Ms. Nagy added.
Nicholas Negroponte, founder and former director of the M.I.T. Media Lab, had this to say, responding by e-mail to a reporter's question: ''Ricky has spent his life in the 'understanding' business,'' Mr. Negroponte wrote. ''That is what he does. He helps people understand places, people, health, processes, just about anything. TED is an eclectic party of intellectuals, innovators, designers and entertainers. The meeting affected the times and the times affected the meeting, synergistically making today a period where design is viewed as strategy, not fluff. The house -- what can I say? Ricky has always been bigger than life, but the house is bigger than Ricky. He and Gloria use it for themselves, which is very different than most people, for whom it would be first and foremost a trophy or status symbol.''
IN the beginning, the huge wrought-iron gates were wide open, rusted out and unwieldy. But a porous property is confusing in a tourist town like Newport. The green lawns enticed picnickers, many of whom would knock on the door and ask for a tour. One morning, Ms. Nagy came downstairs and found an elegantly dressed woman and her teenage daughter lost in the front hall. They had mistaken the Orchard for the admissions office of the Salve Regina University across the street. Now the gates are oiled and working, locked up tight.
There are four full-time employees working inside and out, including a house manager and the couple's personal assistant. Shortly after moving here, painting the place and buffing its rough edges, Mr. Wurman and Ms. Nagy moved their white loft furniture, their collections of ethnic pieces and textiles, the artwork from friends -- Jim Dine, David Hockney, Dale Chihuly, among others -- right into the place. Seventeen years later, it still looks contemporary and appealingly eclectic. The other day, the baby grand player piano was banging out Baroque compositions. Atop it was an intriguing nest of what looked like ribbon candy woven into a bowl. It was soft to the touch, a patented formula of what turned out to be packing glue that is the medium used by their son, Tony Wurman, a glass blower and artist. Joshua, his brother, is a severe-weather chaser; Reven, another son, is a photographer in New York; and Vanessa, their daughter, has developed an equestrian center in Charlestown, R.I.
The grounds are a cross between a French formal garden and a Slim Aarons photo, peppered with the massive volumes -- cones, balls, pyramids -- that Mr. Wurman is deeply fond of. In fact, he has redesigned all eight acres into contiguous landscapes of circles: there are roses planted in a spiral; a labyrinth of stones; a whorl of Indian columns; a pool shaped like a semicircle. He has collected giant iron submarine buoys that look like planets or land mines and deployed them about the place.
After the renovation, which took two months, and the move, which included packing up 55,000 pounds of books, Ms. Nagy was finishing a new novel. Coming up for air every few days, she would cast her eye on the town's inhabitants. Who were these people, with their committees?
''I had no idea how different people were when you got outside the urban stew,'' Ms. Nagy said. ''People would say, 'Did your people summer here?' We came from families where you summered in your backyard. I never heard people talk with an English accent in America. I wanted six pals, and we can all be in the kitchen cooking spaghetti. I couldn't meet one pal.''
They were asked to dinner, but Ms. Nagy soon realized that these overtures were coded entreaties for money -- for the hospital, the library, the local museum. ''I was turning 50, and I was really lost,'' she said. ''And Richard's life was just taking off with TED. I didn't even know how lonely I was. In the beginning, I was like Perle Mesta. We had houseguests all the time. Driving to Providence one day, I became completely undone and couldn't stop crying. I realized that I was feeding and housing a lot of people who were only coming because I was feeding and housing them. And I drew a line in the house and told Richard, 'If it's business, take them out.' I had no privacy. I learned a lot. We are down-to-earth, not fancy people, who happen to live in a fancy house. And nobody knows what to do with that.''
Home matters, she said, as the place to collect her family -- there are now six grandchildren, and each has a bedroom painted in a different color -- and a few close friends. It is a place to start writing less, she is hoping. Her husband, energized by his 75th birthday, is doing more than ever.
In typical Wurman-hyberbole, he said: ''The ones upcoming are going to be the very best.'' There's TED MED in October; a cities project involving a new method to map the cities whose populations will soon top 21 million, as well as an accompanying documentary and the building of worldwide urban observatories; and something else that sounded like a conference, but this reporter wasn't sure.
Oh, yes, Mr. Wurman said, it is the conference to end all conferences, ''a game changer.'' In any case, he's super-busy in his super mansion. His wife rolled her eyes again.
''It's been romantic to come here,'' he said. ''The best thing was dropping out of New York and the whole myth of the super-rich, the myth of superficial wisdom.''
But aren't you super-rich, asked a visitor?
''I am super-wise,'' he said. ''And I've been lucky, I've sold a lot of things. I couldn't do this without Gloria. She gives me permission.''
Ms. Nagy interjected: ''What, do I put a vise on your head?''
''No,'' he said. ''It's the permission of my being here with you.''
Ms. Nagy had the last word. ''Richard has never done anything he hasn't wanted to do since his mother made him stand in a bowl at 18 months and have his picture taken. You can see why nobody thought we would last 30 days.''
He grinned and stumped away, an elfin figure in sandals with semicircular soles, herded this way and that by his white Labs, Isaac, Jacob and Abraham.
Online Correction: September 11, 2010, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly referred to Salve Regina University as Salve Regina College.
Correction: September 16, 2010, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about Richard Saul Wurman and his Newport, R.I., home misspelled the name of the town where his daughter built an equestrian center. It is Charlestown, R.I., not Charleston.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOMEBODIES: Gloria Nagy and Richard Saul Wurman (with dogs Isaac, Abraham and Jacob) work and live in a 19th-century copy of a French country house in Newport, R.I. (D1)
SPIT AND POLISH: The house didn't need much work inside beyond a paint job. The couple simply imported the entire contents of their SoHo loft -- white furniture, 55,000 pounds of books and artwork by friends like Jim Dine (left, over the stairs) and Dale Chihuly (above, sneakers painted by Mr. Chihuly). Below left, a wall of Mexican folk art. There are three swimming pools, including an indoor one, below. (D6)
 GATE-CRASHERS: Ms. Nagy and Mr. Wurman's children like to tease their parents about their fancy digs. ''Momsie, Popsie, Biff is here!'' was one son's refrain whenever he visited. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TRENT BELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2010



253 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (History) 9/11 STATE OF EMERGENCYCondoleezza Rice, the national security adviser for the Bush administration on Sept. 11, 2001; Donald H. Rumsfeld, the former secretary of defense; and Gen. Richard B. Myers, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recount the decisions made and obstacles faced -- including failed communications inside the White House bunker and a heated phone conversation with President George W. Bush -- in the aftermath of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Andrew Card, the White House chief of staff at the time, tells the story of interrupting the president's visit to the Emma E. Booker Elementary School in Sarasota, Fla., to whisper the news that a second aircraft had flown into the twin towers (above, Mr. Card with President Bush at that moment). The special also features interviews with air-traffic controllers and F-16 pilots involved in the response that day and with Deena Burnett and Alice Hoglan, whose loved ones were on board the hijacked United Airlines Flight 93. 
7:30 P.M. (NBC) N.F.L. OPENING KICKOFF 2010 The National Football League begins its 91st season as the reigning Super Bowl champions, the New Orleans Saints, face off against the Minnesota Vikings at the Superdome. This pregame celebration, simulcast on the N.F.L. Network, honors the Saints and their hometown with performances by the Dave Matthews Band and Taylor Swift. The game kicks off at 8:30. A special edition of ''N.F.L. Total Access,'' at 4 p.m. on the N.F.L. Network, will feature an interview with the Saints' head coach, Sean Payton, as well as a remote interview with Rex Ryan, the head coach of the New York Jets.
8 P.M. (Food Network) EXTREME CUISINE WITH JEFF CORWIN Mr. Corwin travels to the Louisiana bayou, where he samples blue crabs, spicy wild boar, gar and fried shrimp, washed down with a hefty swig of moonshine.
8 P.M. (Showtime) REDLIGHT (2009) Film footage smuggled out of brothels and first-person testimonials illustrate the plight of several young Cambodian sex slaves, former and current, as they struggle to re-enter society and bring their captors to justice with the help of the human-rights advocate Somaly Mam and the politician Mu Sochua. Guy Jacobson, the founder of the Redlight Children Campaign, an organization raised to create awareness about child sex-trafficking, and Adi Ezroni, an Israeli actress and advocate, directed. The actress Lucy Liu, a Unicef good-will ambassador, narrates this documentary, shown in honor of Human Trafficking Awareness Month in Washington.
8 P.M. (CW) THE VAMPIRE DIARIES Season 2 opens as Elena (Nina Dobrev) discovers the bloody body of her Uncle John and learns the fate of her brother Jeremy (Steven R. McQueen). Meanwhile, Damon (Ian Somerhalder, above with Ms. Dobrev), who was revealed last season to be a doomed vampire, finally figures out that Katherine, Elena's vampire doppelganger (also played by Ms. Dobrev), is back -- and intent on reclaiming what she thinks is hers. ''Nikita,'' starring Maggie Q as an assassin out for vengeance, has its premiere at 9. Writing in The New York Times, Alessandra Stanley called the series ''a well-made thriller for grown-ups: a heroine in a decidedly unheroic line of work.''
9 P.M. (Fox Business Network) STOSSEL John Stossel examines government policies that stifle the growth of small businesses, with the help of his guests: John Samuelsen, the president of Transport Workers Union Local 100; Dana Berliner, a senior lawyer at the Institute for Justice; and Donald J. Boudreaux, a professor of economics at George Mason University.
9 P.M. (Lifetime) PROJECT RUNWAY Michael Kors challenges the contestants to make something he specializes in: resort attire.
9 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF D.C. Things turns sour when Michaele and Tareq invite the women to a grape stomp at their vineyard and then make disparaging comments about Mary's daughter. Meanwhile, Cat discusses politics.
10 P.M. (Sundance) THE DAY BEFORE The director Loic Prigent (''Signe Chanel'' and ''Marc Jacobs & Louis Vuitton'') watches as Donatella Versace prepares for a runway show and offers a guided tour from the fitting rooms of the house of Versace to the bedroom of her brother Gianni Versace, who was murdered in 1997 by the serial killer Andrew Cunanan. In ''Girl on the Run: 10 Years,'' at 10:30, Mademoiselle Agnes, a French fashion commentator, looks back at the past decade in fashion through interviews with Yves Saint Laurent(who died in 2008), Tom Ford, Karl Lagerfeld, John Galliano, Jean Paul Gaultier, Catherine Deneuve and Anna Wintour. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (86%); SEX TRAFFICKING (84%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (84%); HIJACKING (75%); CHILDREN (74%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (74%); AIRLINES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (69%); CIVIL AVIATION (69%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (68%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (65%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); SLAVERY (60%); SMUGGLING (60%)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (83%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (82%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (58%); MINNESOTA VIKINGS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TAYLOR SWIFT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (71%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



254 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
PRIVATE SCHOOLS EMERGE
In South Africa
As many of South Africa's public schools have failed a postapartheid generation of children from poor townships and rural areas, new private schools are springing up to serve poor and working-class black children, giving the still dominant public system some newfound competition and perhaps even devising models that will end up influencing it. PAGE A6
REASSERTING U.S. PRIMACY 
In a speech at the Council on Foreign Relations meant to showcase the successes of the Obama administration's foreign policy, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton emphatically reasserted the primacy of American power in a dangerous world. Diplomatic Memo. PAGE A8
National
HEALTH PLAN WON'T PROPEL
Big Spending, Report Says
A new government study says President Obama's health care law will have negligible effects on total national health spending in the next 10 years, neither slowing nor propelling the explosive growth of medical costs. PAGE A16
FROM SPORTS STAR TO KINGPIN
Edgar Valdez Villarreal was once square-jawed football star fat United High School in Laredo, Tex., who hailed from a stable family. But few who knew him then would have pegged him as likely to become one of Mexico's most feared and savage drug leaders. PAGE A21
New York
CLASSES BEGIN AS SCHOOLS
Face New Hurdles
Classes began for a million city schoolchildren, who returned to schools that are facing serious challenges. sShools remain crowded, and a redefinition of proficiency on state tests caused the passing rates of many schools to plummet. Schools have had to cut their budgets by four percent, leading many of them to forgo new after-school programs. PAGE A22
Business
MILITARY CUTS PUSH
Suppliers to Shed Workers
Tightened spending at the Pentagon is unsettling the defense industry, with Lockheed Martin announcing that one-quarter of its executives had applied for buyouts as the company cut costs. Boeing, another big Pentagon contractor, said it would cut the executive ranks in its military aircraft business by 10 percent. PAGE B1
IRISH BANK TO BE SPLIT UP
The Irish government, bowing to market fears that its escalating banking losses might cause it to seek a Greek-style bailout, said it would split the troubled Anglo Irish Bank into two entities, one of which would eventually be shut. PAGE B1
Obituaries
FED SAYS GROWTH IS SLOWING
The United States economy showed ''widespread signs'' of slowing, the Federal Reserve said, though modest growth continued from mid-July through the end of August. PAGE B3
Sports
REALITY SHOW HELPS JETS
With Image Makeover
The Rex Ryan regime -- and the HBO reality series ''Hard Knocks'' -- has altered the way people look at the Jets and given them an unexpected marketing boost just before the move into the New Meadowlands Stadium. Richard Sandomir, TV Sports. PAGE B15
CLEMENS SUED BY TRAINER
Less than a week after Roger Clemens appeared in a Washington courthouse to plead not guilty to charges of making false statements to Congress, his lawyers showed up in another courtroom -- this time in Brooklyn -- to defend their client in a defamation lawsuit brought by his former trainer. PAGE B16
Arts
ACTING AS GUARDIANS
Of America's Front Lawn
Each year, groups seeking space to build on the National Mall show up before the National Capital Planning Commission, one of the gatekeepers for what functions as the nation's cultural front lawn. Because there is only so much space and a concern about cluttering the Mall's signature green expanses, the commission has to be good at saying no and at offering alternatives. PAGE C1
Home
READ THE PAPER FIRST,
Then Use It to Kill Weeds
For gardeners who have problems with weeds, a layer of newsprint plus compost can help protect plants from some persistent invaders. Anne Raver, In the Garden. PAGE D1
Thursday Styles
A ROAD TO FAME,
Paved With Hair
Thousands of people in Los Angeles and New York are trying to make a name in the competitive world of celebrity hairstyling, angling to do the hair for celebrities and models in magazine spreads, on the red carpet and the runways -- and become famous themselves. PAGE E3
Op-ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A31
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); HEALTH CARE (75%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); ATHLETES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); AIRCRAFT MFG (67%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); BUDGET CUTS (64%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (53%); BOEING CO (53%); IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (75%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAREDO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



255 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Dante Enters New Realm, Sotheby's 10th Floor

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The line between auction houses and art galleries keeps blurring. It is no longer unusual for Sotheby's and Christie's to take over entire galleries. Sotheby's did it in 1996, when it bought the Andre Emmerich Gallery. Christie's followed, taking over Hall & Knight in 2004 and then Haunch of Venison three years ago. Like dealers, both companies also do much business selling works of art for clients privately. Now Sotheby's is encroaching on dealer territory yet again but in a slightly different way. This month it is opening ''Divine Comedy,'' an exhibition of some 75 works organized around the theme of Dante's epic poem.
The show, on view from Sept. 30 through Oct. 19, will include about 75 works dating from the first century to the present and culled from collectors, artists, dealers and foundations. 
The organizer is Lisa Dennison, the former director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, who joined Sotheby's in 2007 and is now its chairwoman for North and South America. She called on experts throughout the company for help. ''We see this as an extension of our private sale business,'' she said in a telephone interview. Referring to the company's Upper East Side headquarters, she added, ''Our 10th-floor space is often unoccupied, and we wanted to do something there that will use all our specialists and that crosses geographies.''
Ms. Dennison was quick to point out that Sotheby's had organized exhibitions before. It has shown and sold sculptures on the grounds of Chatsworth in Derbyshire, England, and other stately homes in the English countryside. And last year it held an exhibition of the collection belonging to Steven A. Cohen, the hedge-fund billionaire, also in its 10th-floor galleries, although Sotheby's experts said then that nothing was for sale.
Not everything in ''Divine Comedy'' will be for sale either, Ms. Dennison said, because she wanted to include material that would flesh out the show's theme. On view will be one of Richard Prince's nurse paintings from 2005, a Flag Art Foundation loan that is not for sale. The same goes for a 1950s painting by Francis Bacon that is coming from an anonymous collector.
The show will be organized by themes from the poem: Inferno, Purgatory and Paradise. Most of the works will be contemporary, but there will be a first-century Roman marble and several old master paintings as well as examples of 19th-century European art and 20th-century design.
Among the contemporary artists represented will be Maurizio Cattelan (a sculpture of Hitler), George Condo (two paintings, including one of a cross-eyed God) and Damien Hirst (two butterfly paintings).
Prices will range from $35,000 for a photograph by Sante d'Orazio to upward of $10 million for works including a painting by the Belgian master Frans Francken from about 1633. But no price tags will be displayed. ''It's more amorphous,'' Ms. Dennison said.
Interested buyers will have to get that information from a Sotheby's expert. The show will be accompanied by a catalog that will sell for $65.
WHITNEY'S MEMBER MENU
To the Whitney Museum of American Art, the days of one-size-fits-all museum memberships are over. While institutions have always offered more privileges to those willing to pay more to be members, this week the Whitney is introducing what it says is an economically accessible program called Curate Your Own Membership. Starting at $85 ($10 more than its current Classic membership), the program lets members customize their plans, choosing from a menu of ''series.'' (For an extra $40 members can add a second series.)
''During the height of the recession, the Whitney, like all museums, began to see a dip in membership,'' said Kristen Shepherd Denner, the museum's director of membership and annual fund. ''So it got me thinking: What do members really want? I suddenly realized I didn't know.''
Market research, including surveys and focus groups, proved eye-opening. ''One of our biggest surprises was that age did not dictate someone's interests,'' she said. Some of the older people polled, for example, were particularly interested in cutting-edge art, social activities and education, three areas of interest often associated with a younger crowd. ''It cut across all demographics,'' Ms. Denner said.
So as with a menu from a Chinese restaurant, members can choose a Social Series that includes invitations to parties, preview and events; an Insider Series with behind-the-scenes tours; a Learning Series, which includes gallery talks; a Family Series with stroller tours and a Kids Passport stamped at each visit; or a Philanthropy Series, with the payment helping to underwrite exhibition and education programs rather than parties, previews and lectures. Details are available at the museum or on its Web site, whitney.org.
''We're hoping that if people select what they want, the chances are they will stay with us,'' Ms. Denner said.
MENIL'S JASPER JOHNS LIST
In an effort to become an international resource for drawings, the Menil Collection in Houston is planning to publish the catalogue raisonne of Jasper Johns's drawings. Bernice Berend Rose, who joined the Menil in 2007 as the chief curator of its new Drawings Institute, will lead the project, along with a group of scholars that includes Kate Ganz, a drawing expert, and Roberta Bernstein, an art historian who has written extensively about Mr. Johns. (Ms. Bernstein is also hard at work on a catalogue raisonne, or definitive listing, of Johns's paintings and sculptures, which is being underwritten by the Wildenstein Institute.)
''Jasper Johns has been an important artist to the Menil,'' Josef Helfenstein, director of the Menil, said in a telephone interview. ''It's hard to imagine a better lead project for the Drawings Institute.''
The institute, which has been in the making since 2003, will eventually have its own building. But for now it exists only in shows and other initiatives, Mr. Helfenstein said, with several projects currently in the works.
The Menil has perhaps the most important collection of Mr. Johns's drawings outside New York, helped in large part by a bequest from David Whitney, a collector, former curator and longtime trustee. Mr. Whitney was also a friend of Mr. Johns and before his death in 2005 had amassed perhaps the finest group of drawings by the artist in private hands.
Mr. Helfenstein said he estimated that the catalogue raisonne would take five years to complete. Louisa S. Sarofim, chairwoman of the Menil's board, is providing the lead financing -- a ''substantial six figures,'' a Menil spokesman said. Mr. Helfenstein said, ''We will also have to raise additional money,'' adding that it was too early to say how much it would cost to complete the publication.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A detail from ''Mankind's Eternal Dilemma -- the Choice Between Vice and Virtue'' by Frans Francken the Younger, from about 1633, part of Sotheby's ''Divine Comedy'' exhibition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POETRY (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (91%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (91%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (58%); STEVEN COHEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) ENGLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (70%); SOUTH AMERICA (55%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



256 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Things Could Be Worse

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
TOKYO
''Japan's problems now are the same as they were in the 1990s, when you were writing about them. It's depressing.'' So declared one economist I spoke to here. ''But the Japanese don't seem all that depressed,'' objected another. Both were right -- and the conversation crystallized some thoughts I've been having about Japan's situation, and ours.
A decade ago, Japan was a byword for failed economic policies: years after its real estate bubble burst, it was still suffering from chronic deflation and slow growth. Then America had its own bubble, bust and crisis. And these days, Japan's record doesn't look that bad to an American eye. 
Why not? For all its flaws, Japanese policy limited and contained the damage from a financial bust. And the question in America now is whether we'll do the same -- or whether we will take a hard right turn into economic disaster.
In the 1990s, Japan conducted a dress rehearsal for the crisis that struck much of the world in 2008. Runaway banks fueled a bubble in land prices; when the bubble burst, these banks were severely weakened, as were the balance sheets of everyone who had borrowed in the belief that land prices would stay high. The result was protracted economic weakness.
And the policy response was too little, too late. The Bank of Japan cut interest rates and took other steps to pump up spending, but it was always behind the curve and persistent deflation took hold. The government propped up employment with public works programs, but its efforts were never focused enough to start a self-sustaining recovery. Banks were kept afloat, but were slow to face up to bad debts and resume lending. The result of inadequate policy was an economy that remains depressed to this day.
Yet the picture is grayish rather than pitch black. Japan's economy may be depressed, but it's not in a depression. The employment picture has been troubled, with a growing number of ''freeters'' living from temporary job to temporary job. But thanks to those government job-creation plans, the country isn't suffering mass unemployment. Debt has risen, but despite constant warnings of imminent crisis -- and even downgrades from rating agencies back in 2002 -- the government is still able to borrow, long term, at an interest rate of only 1.1 percent.
In short, Japan's performance has been disappointing but not disastrous. And given the policy agenda of America's right, that's a performance we may wish we'd managed to match.
Like their Japanese counterparts, American policy makers initially responded to a burst bubble and a financial crisis with half-measures. I've lamented that fact, but at this point it's water under the bridge. The question is: What happens now?
Republican obstruction means that the best we can hope for in the near future are palliative measures -- modest additional spending like the infrastructure program President Obama proposed this week, aid to state and local governments to help them avoid severe further cutbacks, aid to the unemployed to reduce hardship and maintain spending power.
Even with such measures, we'll be lucky to do as well as Japan did at limiting the human and economic cost of the economy's financial woes. But it's by no means certain that we'll do even that much. If the Republicans go beyond obstruction to actually setting policy -- which they might if they win big in November -- we'll be on our way to economic performance that makes Japan look like the promised land.
It's hard to overstate how destructive the economic ideas offered earlier this week by John Boehner, the House minority leader, would be if put into practice. Basically, he proposes two things: large tax cuts for the wealthy that would increase the budget deficit while doing little to support the economy, and sharp spending cuts that would depress the economy while doing little to improve budget prospects. Fewer jobs and bigger deficits -- the perfect combination.
More broadly, if Republicans regain power, they will surely do what they did during the Bush years: they won't seriously try to address the economy's troubles; they'll just use those troubles as an excuse to push the usual agenda, including Social Security privatization. They'll also surely try to repeal health reform, which would be another twofer, reducing economic security even as it increases long-term deficits.
So I find myself almost envying the Japanese. Yes, their performance has been disappointing. But things could have been worse. And the case Democrats now need to make -- the case the president finally began to make in Cleveland this week -- is that if Republicans regain power, things will indeed be worse. Americans, understandably, are disappointed over, frustrated with and angry about the state of the economy; but disappointment is better than disaster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEFLATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (64%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



257 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Anticipating Power Shift, And Hiring Republicans

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With Democrats in danger of losing control of Congress, some prominent lobbying shops, trade groups and contractors are already moving to bring more Republicans on board to bolster their political fortunes.
Lobbyists, political consultants and recruiters all say that the going rate for Republicans -- particularly current and former House staff members -- has risen significantly in just the last few weeks, with salaries beginning at $300,000 and going as high as $1 million for private sector positions.
''We're seeing a premium for Republicans,'' said Ivan H. Adler, a headhunter for the McCormick Group in Washington who specializes in placing lobbyists. ''They're the new 'It' girl.''
Raytheon, the military contractor, just hired as its top Washington lobbyist a former senior Republican aide in Congress, and Wal-Mart and Target are said to be looking for Republicans to beef up their Washington offices, according to consultants with knowledge of the talks. 
In a town built on connections, the surge in interest is a turnaround for Republicans, who in the first year of the Obama administration had difficulty finding top-tier political jobs in the private sector and were considered something akin to political exiles.
With polls indicating a strong showing for Republicans in November, ''it's made Republicans more relevant,'' said Drew Maloney, the chief executive of Ogilvy Government Relations, a top Washington lobbying shop.
If Republicans succeed in regaining control of the House and perhaps even the Senate, firms seeking influence over federal policies are looking to gain an edge by tacking toward the right. That will become particularly important, they say, if Republicans try to roll back some of the major initiatives in health care, business regulation and other areas that Democrats have pushed through Congress in the last year.
Renewed battles over big-ticket legislation would also be likely to mean a financial windfall for lobbyists and political consultants, who have proved largely immune to the country's economic problems. With major legislative debates in Washington, revenue for more than 13,000 lobbyists rose more than 5 percent last year, to $3.5 billion, and continued to climb through the first half of this year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group.
JPMorgan Chase, among at least a dozen recent hires, brought in Mel Martinez, the former Republican senator from Florida, as a senior executive. Robert L. Wilkie, a top Pentagon official in the administration of President George W. Bush, was hired by CH2M Hill, a construction and design firm, as a vice president overseeing military projects. And Research In Motion, which makes the BlackBerry, hired Jason C. Scism, a top Republican aide to Representative Darrell Issa of California, into an executive spot that was last held by a Democrat.
Meanwhile, a number of other companies and trade groups are said to be in the market for Republican officials between now and November, headhunters and lobbyists say. (Executives at Target and Wal-Mart, among the companies mentioned, declined to comment on their possible hiring plans.)
Political consultants emphasize that while demand for Republican credentials is on the rise, a mix of factors, including Congressional experience in critical areas like health care or financial reform, comes into play along with party affiliation in filling government relations jobs. Private contractors vying for government work are particularly uneasy about being identified too closely with one party or the other, and a number of companies that have recently hired Republicans deny that party politics was a driving factor.
But at the Washington lobbying firm of Locke Lord Bissell & Liddell, executives acknowledge that the prospect of a Republican resurgence has led them to look for someone with solid conservative credentials.
''We feel like moving into next year, it'll be important to influence House Republicans, so we'll clearly be looking to move more into that area,'' said Phil Rivers, a partner at the firm.
''Our recent hires have been Democrats because that's where our needs were,'' Mr. Rivers said, but with Republicans appearing poised to add many seats in November, ''that's where the need will be.''
The House and Senate have ethics restrictions that seek to blunt the impact of the ''revolving door'' between senior Congressional staff positions and the private sector. There are rules over negotiations for private sector jobs, and a one-year ''cooling off'' period restricting Congressional contacts by former staff members. But the restrictions in the House are looser than those in the Senate, preventing contacts and lobbying by former staff members only with their former office, not the entire House. The Senate prevents any lobbying of the entire body for a year.
While many Washington consultants say they believe that organizations looking to influence policy need to play to the party in power, there is a competing school of thought that derides such strategic shifts as fickle and largely ineffective.
Several Washington lobbying powerhouses, like Patton Boggs and the Podesta Group, maintain a stable of lobbyists from both parties, no matter who is in power, based on the belief that they always need to work both sides of the political aisle.
Jack Quinn, a top aide to President Bill Clinton and a founder of the lobbying shop of Quinn Gillespie & Associates, said he had always recruited lobbyists and lawyers from both parties to make it a ''bona fide bipartisan operation.''
Even so, some Republicans working at trade associations are being wooed aggressively by major lobbying firms in just the last few months, said Jacqueline Arends, a Washington consultant who assists private organizations looking to fill government relations posts.
''We're seeing them being recruited by K Street,'' Ms. Arends said, using the nickname for Washington's lobbying corridor, ''which has a lot more money to throw around'' than the trade groups.
Republican lobbyists with senior-level experience in government are now sometimes getting offers approaching $1 million a year, Ms. Arends said. (She declined to identify individuals or firms, citing client confidentiality.)
''It's very clear that the pendulum is swinging back, and having balance is going to be very, very important,'' she said.
But for Republican staff members in Congress, the lure of the private sector may pose a dilemma if their party does indeed regain power.
Mr. Maloney, the Ogilvy executive, said he had spoken with some Republican staff members on Capitol Hill who were torn by the possibilities of working within Congress as the party in power, or moving to the private sector at a high salary while their marketability is rising.
For House Republican staff members, ''if they want to move, this is the time,'' he said. ''But at the same time, a lot of these people want the opportunity to work in the majority.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former United States Senator Mel Martinez, a Republican of Florida, was hired by JPMorgan Chase as a senior executive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT AUDETTE/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); HEALTH CARE (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); RAYTHEON CO (56%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); RTN (NYSE) (56%); RIM (TSX) (50%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); DARRELL E ISSA (58%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



258 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Apple Plays to App Developers by Revealing Its Policy Guidelines

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
Apple, which keeps a tight lid on its products and inner workings, is loosening up a little.
The company said on Thursday that it would relax its rules on how software developers can build applications for its iPhone and iPad. And for the first time it published detailed guidelines explaining how it decides what programs can and cannot be sold through its App Store.
Apple has long faced criticism from developers who say its application review process is opaque and that it makes seemingly arbitrary decisions about what is acceptable for its customers. 
This year, some were incensed when the company purged some sexually suggestive applications it deemed to be inappropriate -- like a jigsaw puzzle featuring scantily dressed women -- while a Sports Illustrated application with bikini-clad models remained.
Analysts said the moves on Thursday were a sign that Apple was growing increasingly aware of competition in the smartphone market, and was trying to be friendlier to the developers whose applications have helped drive the success of its products.
In particular, Android, the mobile operating system by Google, has steadily increased market share in the United States and abroad. Shipments of smartphones using Android grew by 886 percent during the second quarter from a year earlier, according to the research firm Canalys. And a wave of Android tablet computers that will compete with the iPad are on the way.
''Apple is concerned enough about the shifting tide towards Android that it feels it has to loosen restrictions to keep developers on its side,'' said Jeffrey S. Hammond, an analyst at Forrester Research.
Although Mr. Hammond said that Apple's App Store was outpacing opponents in both the number of applications available for download and the amount of revenue generated for developers, he said Apple's announcement was a ''pre-emptive strike.''
''Google has done a better job at leveling the playing field for independent developers, and that matters,'' he said. ''I don't think Apple can tolerate that, especially with the dozen or more pads that we're going to see hit the market in eight to nine weeks.''
In the newly released guidelines, which are written in an unusually conversational style, Apple acknowledges that its App Store policies could give the impression that the company is made up of ''control freaks,'' but adds that ''maybe it's because we're so committed to our users and making sure they have a quality experience with our products.''
Although the guidelines list many things that will lead to an app's rejection, like the inclusion of pornography or violent images, or mimicking features that are already on the iPhone, they still leave much to interpretation. For example, Apple says that ''apps that are not very useful or do not provide any lasting entertainment value may be rejected.''
Even so, software developers, many of whom have expressed frustration about the app review process, said the company's newfound candor came as a relief.
''This is gold. This is great,'' said Dom Sagolla, chief executive of Dollar App, a mobile development company based in the Bay Area. ''It feels like we're finally getting a clue about what Apple wants.''
''This is a document I've been wanting to see for two years,'' said Raven Zachary, president of Small Society, a software development firm. ''It's going to foster the creation of better apps because we know going in what to do and what to avoid.''
Apple also said it would begin to allow developers to use third-party tools to create applications for its iOS mobile operating system, which is used on the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. It had banned such tools in April.
The change means developers can more easily convert applications written for other types of mobile phones, including those that use Adobe's Flash technology, which Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, has repeatedly said he will not support. The news bumped shares of Adobe up more than 12 percent to close at $32.86. Apple shares were little changed.
Apple's new rules also specify that developers can put advertisements in their applications that come from outside companies. Its earlier rules had raised some questions about whether developers would be limited to using Apple's iAd service, locking out companies like AdMob, which is owned by Google.
Omar Hamoui, the former chief executive of AdMob who is now the vice president for product management at Google, said in a blog post that the changes were ''great news for everyone in the mobile community.''
''Apple's new terms will keep in-app advertising on the iPhone open to many different mobile ad competitors and enable advertising solutions that operate across a wide range of platforms,'' he added.
Good will aside, analysts said Apple may also be trying to keep federal regulators at bay. The ban on third-party tools and the uncertainty about outside ads had prompted the Federal Trade Commission to begin asking questions about Apple's approach to competition.
''At some point, Apple asked themselves whether this is doing us more harm than good, between unhappy developers and the F.T.C. sniffing around,'' Mr. Hammond said. ''For once, Apple is being a little bit defensive in their strategy as opposed to being offensive. It just shows how the race is starting to tighten in this market.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Analysts said Apple's new friendliness to developers reflected concern over competition from Google. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (72%); MARKET SHARE (68%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



259 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: The Genteel Nation

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Most people who lived in the year 1800 were scarcely richer than people who lived in the year 100,000 B.C. Their diets were no better. They were no taller, and they did not live longer.
Then, sometime around 1800, economic growth took off -- in Britain first, then elsewhere. How did this growth start? In his book ''The Enlightened Economy,'' Joel Mokyr of Northwestern University argues that the crucial change happened in people's minds. Because of a series of cultural shifts, technicians started taking scientific knowledge and putting it to practical use. For example, entrepreneurs applied geological research to the businesses of mining and transportation.
Britain soon dominated the world. But then it declined. Again, the crucial change was in people's minds. As the historian Correlli Barnett chronicled, the great-great-grandchildren of the empire builders withdrew from commerce, tried to rise above practical knowledge and had more genteel attitudes about how to live. 
This history is relevant today because 65 percent of Americans believe their nation is now in decline, according to this week's NBC/Wall Street Journal poll. And it is true: Today's economic problems are structural, not cyclical. We are in the middle of yet another jobless recovery. Wages have been lagging for decades. Our labor market woes are deep and intractable.
The first lesson from the economic historians is that we should try to understand our situation by looking for shifts in ideas and values, not just material changes. Furthermore, most fundamental economic pivot points are poorly understood by people at the time.
If you look at America from this perspective, you do see something akin to the ''British disease.'' After decades of affluence, the U.S. has drifted away from the hardheaded practical mentality that built the nation's wealth in the first place.
The shift is evident at all levels of society. First, the elites. America's brightest minds have been abandoning industry and technical enterprise in favor of more prestigious but less productive fields like law, finance, consulting and nonprofit activism.
It would be embarrassing or at least countercultural for an Ivy League grad to go to Akron and work for a small manufacturing company. By contrast, in 2007, 58 percent of male Harvard graduates and 43 percent of female graduates went into finance and consulting.
The shift away from commercial values has been expressed well by Michelle Obama in a series of speeches. ''Don't go into corporate America,'' she told a group of women in Ohio. ''You know, become teachers. Work for the community. Be social workers. Be a nurse. ... Make that choice, as we did, to move out of the money-making industry into the helping industry.'' As talented people adopt those priorities, America may become more humane, but it will be less prosperous.
Then there's the middle class. The emergence of a service economy created a large population of junior and midlevel office workers. These white-collar workers absorbed their lifestyle standards from the Huxtable family of ''The Cosby Show,'' not the Kramden family of ''The Honeymooners.'' As these information workers tried to build lifestyles that fit their station, consumption and debt levels soared. The trade deficit exploded. The economy adjusted to meet their demand -- underinvesting in manufacturing and tradable goods and overinvesting in retail and housing.
These office workers did not want their children regressing back to the working class, so you saw an explosion of communications majors and a shortage of high-skill technical workers. One of the perversities of this recession is that as the unemployment rate has risen, the job vacancy rate has risen, too. Manufacturing firms can't find skilled machinists. Narayana Kocherlakota of the Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank calculates that if we had a normal match between the skills workers possess and the skills employers require, then the unemployment rate would be 6.5 percent, not 9.6 percent.
There are several factors contributing to this mismatch (people are finding it hard to sell their homes and move to new opportunities), but one problem is that we have too many mortgage brokers and not enough mechanics.
Finally, there's the lower class. The problem here is social breakdown. Something like a quarter to a third of American children are living with one or no parents, in chaotic neighborhoods with failing schools. A gigantic slice of America's human capital is vastly underused, and it has been that way for a generation.
Personally, I'm not convinced we're in decline. There are strengths to counter these weaknesses. But the value shifts are real. Up and down society, people are moving away from commercial, productive activities and toward pleasant, enlightened but less productive ones.
We can get distracted by short-term stimulus debates, but those are irrelevant by now. The real issues are whether the United States is content with gentility shift and whether there is anything that can be done about it in any case.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (53%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (52%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



260 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: For G.O.P., 3-Way Primary May Dash Hopes in a House Race on Long Island

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
It was supposed to be one of the best hunting grounds for Republicans hoping to pick off vulnerable Democrats in Congress: the First District of New York, in Suffolk County, where Timothy H. Bishop, a four-term representative in a part of Long Island with deeply conservative pockets, had become perilously identified with his party's liberal wing.
But a bitter three-way primary contest, and the likelihood that the Republican and the Conservative Parties could nominate different candidates, are conjuring yet another nightmarish vision for New York Republicans, who squandered a similar opportunity upstate last year. 
''If I'm Bishop, I'm sitting there watching this and absolutely loving it,'' said Desmond M. Ryan, a lobbyist and onetime Republican operative who is the executive director of the Association for a Better Long Island.
The chance to take on Mr. Bishop, 60, in a year in which Republicans feel the winds at their back drew a fairly impressive field of contenders, even if none had won elective office before: Randy Altschuler, 39, a self-made businessman; George Demos, 33, a former prosecutor who worked on the Bernard L. Madoff case at the Securities and Exchange Commission; and Christopher Cox, 31, the pedigreed son of the state Republican chairman, Edward F. Cox, and a grandson of President Richard M. Nixon.
But with each of the candidates spending heavily -- Mr. Altschuler and Mr. Cox have spent a combined $3 million of their own money -- the final days of the race have been consumed by mudslinging, name-calling and accusations that not one of the three is really who he purports to be.
In direct mailings and broadcast advertisements bombarding Fox News viewers and listeners of WABC radio, each man accuses the others of being carpetbaggers, frauds and bogus conservatives.
Mr. Altschuler has the Conservative Party's endorsement. But Mr. Cox, with the backing of a sizable Tea Party organization, is also contesting the Conservative Party's primary, hoping to eke out a victory through write-in ballots. And he and Mr. Demos accuse Mr. Altschuler of buying the Conservative designation with big contributions to the party.
Mr. Demos, for his part, notes that Mr. Altschuler was once a member of the Green Party, and that Mr. Cox, whom he calls a ''country club Republican,'' supported abortion-rights candidates like Charlie Crist, the governor of Florida, and Assemblywoman Dede Scozzafava in upstate New York. Ms. Scozzafava dropped out of a special Congressional election last year and endorsed the Democratic candidate and the eventual winner over his Conservative rival.
The carpetbagger charge, meanwhile, seems to be a wash: Mr. Cox voted in Suffolk County for the first time in June, a few months after moving from Manhattan into a relative's Westhampton Beach compound; Mr. Altschuler considered running for Congress in New Jersey in 2006, and voted for the first time in Suffolk in 2008; and Mr. Demos first registered to vote using his family's summer home on Shelter Island as his address, but mainly voted as an absentee, until he rented an apartment in the district a year ago to mount his campaign.
''These are guys who are trying to draw a distinction where there are very few differences, and a number of them are just not real, including their supposed residencies,'' said Lawrence Levy, an expert on suburban politics at Hofstra University and a former columnist for Newsday.
There has been little discussion about issues so far, though Mr. Altschuler is trying to break through with a positive message to voters who are worried about the moribund economy that he created 700 jobs as a business owner. Mr. Cox and Mr. Demos say that Mr. Altschuler's outsourcing company profited by moving jobs to India.
''That's not a record you run on when there's record unemployment in America,'' Mr. Demos said.
Mr. Altschuler insisted his company did not cost any Americans their jobs, that it merely freed up professionals who were doing clerical tasks. Still, he expressed dismay at the criticism: ''These are the least free-trade Republicans I've ever met in my entire life.''
''People understand that I am the only job creator in this race,'' he added. ''The reason my opponents are so adamant against me is they have no record of job creation.''
Mr. Cox does claim to have created jobs as a lawyer and a business consultant, but has shied away from providing any numbers or details about those efforts, which is something his rivals, of course, ridicule.
''There's nothing that would qualify him to run for Congress other than winning the birth lottery,'' Mr. Demos said.
While Mr. Demos is hoping voters will see him as the only candidate capable of making the general election about Mr. Bishop's vulnerabilities, not his own, he lacks organizational strength and is short on cash in the final days of the race.
But with Mr. Cox and Mr. Altschuler spending so heavily and mustering sizable get-out-the-vote armies, the prospect that the Republican and Conservative nominations could go to different candidates could pose a dilemma for those who want to unseat the Democratic incumbent.
''Even if one candidate gets both lines,'' Mr. Levy said, ''I think the blood is bad enough and the factionalism is deep enough that you cannot count on the Republican organizations to come together behind him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chris Cox, center, grandson of President Richard M. Nixon, is hoping to win the Conservative Party's line with write-in ballots. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
George Demos, former prosecutor, hopes to be seen as the candidate best able to capitalize on the incumbent's vulnerabilities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Randy Altschuler, a businessman and candidate for the Republican nomination, has the Conservative Party's endorsement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (63%); ABORTION (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY H BISHOP (90%); CHRISTOPHER COX (89%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); BERNARD MADOFF (57%); CHARLIE CRIST (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



261 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Deaths Challenge a Beach-Driving Tradition

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
NEW SMYRNA BEACH, Fla. -- Sandy Fletcher, a bartender with a dark tan at the Breakers beachfront restaurant here, remembers seeing the commotion in July. Lifeguards had stopped the usual flow of Sunday traffic on the hard sand. Sirens blared. ''We knew it was something bad,'' she said. Cellphones started ringing. ''Then they said it was a 4-year-old.''
Aiden Patrick's life had ended minutes earlier. Barefoot and smiling, the boy had been running toward his father when a pickup ran him over. He was the second child killed this year on the beaches of Volusia County, around Daytona Beach, and more than a month after his death, many residents are still pretty shaken up.
But the tradition of beach driving lives on. Indeed, what others might see as another accident waiting to happen, most residents here see as a birthright, mixing two of America's favorite summer pastimes. 
''The parents should have been watching him,'' said Ms. Fletcher, the mother of a 6-year-old. ''It was high tide; the beach was packed. It's like crossing the street.''
Patrons the length of the bar agreed. ''I like it just the way it is,'' Susan Webster, 51, said. ''There's no other beach like it, and this is what makes it.''
Holding on to history is not something Florida typically excels at. But along the central coast, where some of the nation's first European settlements appeared, brass plaques honoring the past are surprisingly common.
The area never grew as rapidly as counties farther south, and New Smyrna Beach in particular -- a community of about 24,000 -- still maintains an Old Florida feel, with its creaky porches, shuffleboard courts and live oaks draped with fuzzy moss.
Inside City Hall, officials are quick to note that beach driving started with horses and buggies. Jake Baker, an urban planner, has proof: an official map from August 1889 showing that the town's 300-foot-wide stretch of sand was marked ''Beach Street'' and ''dedicated for a public highway.''
''When you think about it,'' Mr. Baker said, ''that was the easiest place to drive.''
Old photographs also show picnicking visitors by clusters of early model Fords -- perhaps the first tailgate parties. Yet speed and danger are part of the legacy, too. In the 1930s, the earliest stock car races whizzed by the water at low tide. Nascar, founded in 1948, used the wide beach between New Smyrna and Daytona, with its hard-packed sand as fine as flour, for its races until 1959.
Debates over the practice are nothing new. Over the decades, several lawsuits have been filed, either by environmentalists looking to protect sea turtles or by waterfront homeowners complaining about property rights.
The results are mixed. Turtle nests now mean that driving is prohibited in some areas. But in March, a homeowner in New Smyrna Beach lost his case when a state judge ruled that his private property rights were not infringed by an activity that was more than a century old.
Frank Bruno, chairman of the Volusia County Council, said the lawsuits -- along with other factors, including softer sand drifting south -- had led to more safety regulation and less beach for driving.
A generation or two ago, nearly all of Volusia County allowed cars on the sand. Now, of the county's 50 or so miles of beach, vehicles are allowed on only 17 miles.
''We try to make sure that people know what's available,'' Mr. Bruno said.
In some Florida communities, accidents over the years have put an end to the mix of cars and children on the sand. At the state park in St. Augustine, where a 16-year-old tourist from Pennsylvania was run over 10 years ago -- she fell into a coma, and died last month -- driving is no longer allowed.
But in New Smyrna Beach and Daytona Beach Shores, where Ellie Bland, a 4-year-old British girl, was run over and killed in March during a family vacation, residents and officials seem determined to keep the status quo. Last month, both communities passed resolutions declaring their continued support for beach driving.
The Volusia County Council has also denied tearful requests from the Patricks to end the practice.
Instead, the Council added a bright yellow compromise: new signs that say ''slow -- children playing'' now hang by ramps leading to the beaches and on the wooden markers noting the 10 mile an hour speed limit. Mr. Bruno said most residents had no interest in doing more.
''Change doesn't come fast here in Volusia County,'' he said. ''We hold on to what we have.''
Economics, he acknowledged, are at least partly responsible. Each year, eight million visitors come to the county's beaches. New Smyrna Beach has the second-lowest property tax rate in the county, largely, city officials say, because its beaches attract so many tourist dollars.
''On weekends as far as you can see in either direction, there are thousands of cars,'' said Brandon McKenney, 39, whose family owns the Breakers, which sits beside a tollbooth charging $5 for each car let onto the beach. ''Where are you going to put them? They'd have to buy or build parking lots, and my taxes are high enough.''
For Jason and Portia Patrick, Aiden's parents, that is the argument that hurts the most. ''You don't want your taxes to go up -- you know what, trade your child,'' Mrs. Patrick said.
She and her husband, a project designer for fire-prevention systems, live in Deltona, about 30 miles inland. Their simple concrete home still has pictures of Aiden hanging prominently on the walls. In one photo, he shows off his tiny biceps; in another, the ocean can be seen just behind his cheerful grin.
The Patricks, who have three other children, said they went to New Smyrna Beach regularly because it was close, and because they did not realize how often injuries occurred. County recordsshow that more than 40 people have been struck by vehicles on the beach in the past five years.
Mrs. Patrick, 31, said that Aiden was just learning how to cross the street and that he could not have understood that the beach was just as dangerous. He darted away in an instant, she said, noting that it could have happened to any parent.
''You don't mix cars and people. It's pretty simple,'' Mrs. Patrick said.
The driver of the pickup, a red Dodge with extra-large tires, was not cited for speeding or any other violation. Nor was the driver of the vehicle that killed Ellie Bland.
The Patricks do not blame such people for the death of their son, a preschooler who was buried in his favorite Spider-Man costume. They blame local tradition and an unwillingness to let go.
''Nascar graduated,'' Mrs. Patrick said, adding, ''I don't want another family to go through this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Driving on the beach is a tradition in New Smyrna Beach, Fla., and residents recently endorsed maintaining it despite the danger it sometimes posed.
Aiden Patrick, 4, was killed by a man driving on the beach
 his parents, Portia and Jason Patrick of Deltona, Fla., would like beach driving banned. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (78%); BEACHES (78%); AUTO RACING (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); LITIGATION (64%); NASCAR RACING (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



262 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Lazio's Links to Banking Industry Haunt His Campaign for Governor

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
In 2008, JPMorgan Chase had a problem. A bill that threatened the profits of its lucrative credit card business had the potential to gain momentum in Congress. But the bank had a stable of lobbyists on its payroll ready to plead its case, including a well-connected rainmaker, former Representative Rick A. Lazio.
The bill, which sought to strictly limit increases on credit card interest rates, stalled in Congress, a victory for JPMorgan Chase and other financial institutions that issue credit cards. But it is not a victory that Mr. Lazio talks much about these days. 
As he campaigns across the state to become the Republican candidate for the governor of New York, Mr. Lazio has played down his work as a lobbyist for JPMorgan Chase, glossing over the subject in his biography posted on his campaign Web site.
His strategy comes as he faces an unexpectedly strong challenge from Carl P. Paladino, a Buffalo businessman, whose insurgent campaign has been fueled by populist anger over the risky practices and excesses of Wall Street that have been blamed as a main cause of the economic collapse.
And the presumed Democratic candidate for governor, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, has already relentlessly pounded Mr. Lazio over his role as a lobbyist for JPMorgan, where he received a $1.3 million bonus in 2008, the same year the federal government bailed out Wall Street banks.
While Mr. Lazio has not said much about his tenure in the world of high finance, interviews and a review of government records show that Mr. Lazio was part of a team in place to argue the firm's case in Washington, particularly against legislation being championed by Democrats and consumer groups.
Mr. Lazio has cut his official ties to JPMorgan, stepping down as an executive vice president at the bank after announcing his bid for governor about a year ago. But with Mr. Lazio as the Republican establishment's favored candidate, his work overseeing the bank's vast lobbying operation from 2004 to 2008 is drawing intense scrutiny.
The extent to which Mr. Lazio directly contacted former colleagues on Capitol Hill is unclear. But records show he was registered to lobby on a number of key issues for JPMorgan at the same time he oversaw the firm's lobbying operation.
Through his campaign, Mr. Lazio declined to discuss his role at JPMorgan, as well as the legislation he was registered to engage in lobbying activities on.
But David James, a Lazio spokesman, said Mr. Lazio was not a front-line lobbyist. He also said he could not describe the nature of Mr. Lazio's lobbying activities because he did not have JPMorgan records detailing his meetings and other activities.
''He was hired to represent the views of JPMorgan much in the same way a lawyer is hired to represent a client,'' Mr. James said.
Mr. Lazio, who is from Long Island, arrived in Congress in 1993 and left politics after his failed bid to defeat Hillary Rodham Clinton in the 2000 Senate race. Wall Street quickly welcomed Mr. Lazio, who had served on the House panel that oversees the financial industry.
Mr. Lazio's first job after Congress was as a lobbyist for the Financial Services Forum, a trade group for chief executives that paid him more than $900,000 in 2004, according to its tax filings. He then moved to JPMorgan Chase, where he continued his lobbying work as executive vice president for Global Government Relations and Public Policy.
As a lobbyist, Mr. Lazio was seen at Congressional fund-raising receptions and other gatherings of lawmakers and their staff. Records show he was registered to weigh in on several major issues that were of major importance to JPMorgan and the banking industry.
He was part of a team registered to lobby on a matter that had the financial industry up in arms: the bill that sought to tightly limit interest rates and fees on credit cards.
The bill, introduced the previous year by Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, had the support of a broad array of consumer groups, including Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Center for Responsible Lending and Consumer Action. The groups argued that borrowers were being saddled with excessive fees and sudden interest-rate increases.
The bill sought to crack down on credit card issuers by setting a cap on interest rate increases and prohibiting interest rate increases on existing debt. But the industry, including JPMorgan, argued that making restrictions too tight could lead to a drastic decline in the amount of lending to consumers -- an assertion consumer advocates dismissed.
''Many of these practices were extremely profitable, and the legislation would have curbed those profits,'' said Travis Plunkett, legislative director for the Consumer Federation of America.
In the end, that Senate bill failed.
Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Manhattan Democrat who had a similar bill reining in credit card issuers, recalled getting a call from Mr. Lazio in 2008 as her bill picked up support. He told her JPMorgan would agree to voluntarily abide by some of the goals she sought. Ms. Maloney recalled telling him that she would press to get her bill enacted anyway, because only a law would ensure permanent protection for consumers.
The records also show he was registered to lobby for JPMorgan in 2008 on a bill that would restrict banks and other financial institution from enrolling customers in programs that would charge them overdraft fees without the express permission of the customers.
Consumer groups argued that banks were making huge profits at the expense of their customers by automatically enrolling them in overdraft protection programs that charged hefty fees. But financial institutions like JPMorgan argued at the time that the bill would anger consumers because consumers expected to get overdraft protection automatically with their accounts.
Mr. Lazio was also listed as a lobbyist in 2008 on another bill that drew criticism from the financial industry. The bill, introduced in the House in 2007, would, among other things, place restrictions on high-cost mortgages. But the industry, including JPMorgan, maintained that some of the provisions of the bill were so restrictive that they could dry up lending for consumers.
The bill never made it out of Congress in 2008.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 11, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about Rick A. Lazio's ties to Wall Street erroneously included one of his lobbying clients in the government bank bailouts in 2008. The company, JPMorgan Chase, accepted TARP funds from the government, but was not bailed out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick A. Lazio, seeking the Republican nomination for governor, at a clambake Wednesday in Onondaga County, N.Y. (A21)
 Mr. Lazio campaigning upstate. As the Republican establishment's favored candidate, his work as a lobbyist is drawing scrutiny. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); GOVERNORS (57%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



263 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Narrowed in July as Exports Rose

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit narrowed by 14 percent in July as exports by American companies rose by about $2.8 billion, suggesting that trade would be less of a drag on growth in the months ahead.
Commerce Department figures showed that exports totaled $153.3 billion in July, up from $150.6 billion in June. A $2.3 billion increase in capital goods, most of it civilian aircraft, accounted for the bulk of the export increase. Industrial supplies and materials, and food and beverages also rose.
The trade deficit narrowed to $42.8 billion, down from a revised $49.8 billion in June, the department said. Imports totaled $196.1 billion in July, $4.2 billion less than June. Much of the decline, $1.9 billion, came from lower imports of consumer goods. 
Economists said that the smaller trade deficit in July meant there would be less of an impact on the third-quarter gross domestic product than the deficit had in the second quarter. The estimate for second-quarter growth was revised downward to 1.6 percent, from 2.4 percent, partly because of the expanded June trade deficit, which dragged growth down by 3.4 percentage points that quarter.
''Third-quarter growth may not look too bad,'' economists from Capital Economics wrote in a research note.
The gap in July was smaller than the forecast of about $47 billion by analysts, who suggested that there might be a cooling off in growth as companies slowed the rebuilding of their inventories and as the impact of other factors, like the government's fiscal stimulus measures, faded away.
Analysts said the outlook for growth depended on whether consumer demand picked up in the months ahead -- a major question mark given the weak job market.
Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR, said that while the monthly figures could be volatile, the underlying trend suggested the July data would be a neutral factor on economic growth.
''With the boost from the inventory swing fading, final demand growth will be increasingly important in driving trade flows,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''As such, the underlying growth rates of both imports and exports ought to moderate in coming months.''
The July figures showed that the United States had trade surpluses with Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia and Egypt.
The trade deficit with China -- America's largest with a single country -- was $25.9 billion in July, slightly less than the $26.2 billion in June.
United States trade with China carries political freight, especially as it relates to its exchange rate. The Obama administration has been hoping China follows through with its pledge to let the renminbi fluctuate against the dollar. Economists and American politicians have said that the currency's value, if stronger, could ease Chinese exporters' advantage over American manufacturers.
''If that did happen it would be a factor to rebalance the widening trade gap with China,'' said Robert A. Dye, the senior economist PNC Financial. That in turn would trickle in to G.D.P.
''We have an unsustainable trade imbalance with China,'' he said.
The United States also had trade deficits with the European Union, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Mexico, Japan, Germany and other countries.
Thomas J. Duesterberg, president of the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, a public policy and economics research organization, said manufacturers were expected to benefit from a marginally weaker dollar against some currencies, and from strong growth in the developing world, including China, India and Brazil.
American manufacturers are maintaining their competitiveness by keeping costs under control, including unit labor costs, he said.
''Exports are a source of strength for the manufacturing sector, and we anticipate that they will continue to be a source of strength,'' Mr. Duesterberg said.
Chemicals, plastics, capital goods, semiconductors and medical equipment were among the export categories showing year-on-year improvements.
Still, the American trade deficit with the European Union expanded in July, to $9.9 billion, from $7.8 billion.
''Europe is growing but it is growing weakly,'' Mr. Duesterberg said. ''If Germany were not growing as strong as it was, then we would see even weaker sales. What would help U.S. exports even more is if the southern tier of Europe were growing a little bit more strongly, and that could pull in exports.''
Concerns over European debt, especially in Spain, Portugal, Ireland, Italy and Greece, surfaced earlier this year and continue to be felt in economic and financial markets.
Steven Ricchiuto, a chief economist for Mizuho Securities USA, said the decline in imports suggested that American consumers were still focused on increasing savings rather than on spending.
Mr. Dye said after a lackluster back-to-school season, retailers would probably experience only modest improvements in the holiday season sales compared with last year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Imports totaled $196.1 billion in July, $4.2 billion less than in June, the government reported. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GREEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); EMPLOYMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (93%); EGYPT (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



264 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Public Schools Face Lawsuit Over Fees

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON; Ian Lovett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Public schools across the nation, many facing budget shortfalls, have been charging students fees to use textbooks or to take required tests or courses.
Now a civil liberties group is suing California over those proliferating fees, arguing that the state has failed to protect the right to a free public education. Experts said it was the first case of its kind, and could tempt parents in other states to file similar suits.
In the suit, to be filed in a state court in Los Angeles on Friday, the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California names 35 school districts across California that list on their Web sites the fees their schools charge for courses including art, home economics and music, for Advanced Placement tests and for materials including gym uniforms. 
''We found that the charging of fees for required academic courses is rampant,'' said Mark Rosenbaum, the A.C.L.U.'s legal director in Southern California. The suit names two anonymous plaintiffs, both students attending high schools in Orange County; their parents also declined to be identified.
But other parents have been speaking out about the fees. Sally Smith, who has put three children through public schools in San Diego, including a daughter who is a high school senior there, said she has watched fees for uniforms and to participate in team sports rise for years. ''All these fees were really taking a bite out of our budget, and our children lost the opportunity to participate in a lot of activities because we couldn't afford them,'' Ms. Smith said.
Since the late 1970s, courts in nearly every state have seen lawsuits arguing for education equity between rich and poor districts. And since the 1990s, lawyers representing low-income students have filed a string of so-called educational adequacy suits, arguing that states have not allotted enough money to provide an adequate public education, said Michael P. Griffith, a school finance analyst at the Education Commission of the States, a nonpartisan research center based in Denver.
''What's new here is that this is not about funding levels for education, but about whether districts are charging kids to get a public education,'' Mr. Griffith said. ''That's a brand-new argument. I wouldn't be surprised to see groups in other states adopt the same line of reasoning.''
In San Diego, one of the cities whose school system is cited in the suit, a grand jury investigated similar reports this year and concluded that the fees were prohibited under California law. Nonetheless, the grand jury said in a June report, ''Student fees are charged in almost all district schools.''
It listed examples: $1,833 for the cheerleading program at one San Diego high school, $180 for water polo at another high school and $400 for the wrestling program at a third school.
Mark Bresee, the general counsel for San Diego Unified School District, said in an interview that after some parents complained about the fees last year, he looked into it and concluded that some schools were indeed assessing improper charges. Mr. Bresee said he has tried to clarify the rules for the district's 180 schools.
He acknowledged that even now, some school Web sites that have not been kept up to date may suggest that students are required to pay fees impermissible under state law.
''The school's Web site pages are one of the problems we've had in this yearlong quest to get information out there and clean this up,'' Mr. Bresee said.
The district's Web site currently offers a detailed list of dos and don'ts for San Diego school principals.
May a school charge fees for uniforms for team sports? ''No, a school must provide a free uniform to any student who is a team member,'' the Web site says. What about gym clothes? Charges for standardized physical education attire are permissible, but the school may not mandate that the clothing be bought from the school.
Permissible charges include those for optional attendance at school-sponsored activities, for food served to students, for replacing books lent to students that they fail to return and for art materials if students take home what they make.
Officials in several of the districts cited dispute those assertions. Chaparral High School in the Temecula Valley Unified district in Riverside County, for instance, is accused of requiring students to pay an examination fee to enroll in Advanced Placement classes.
Jeff Okun, an assistant superintendent, said that students could enroll in the classes at no cost, but that taking the A.P. test required paying a fee to the College Board.
''The fee and the class are two separate things,'' Mr. Okun said.
The lawsuit names Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger as a defendant, arguing that it was his responsibility to crack down on school districts imposing illegal fees.
Matt Connelly, a spokesman for Mr. Schwarzenegger, said, ''The administration is aware of the lawsuit and will review the complaint once it has been served on us.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); LAWYERS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (73%); WATER POLO (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); WATER SPORTS (65%); WRESTLING (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



265 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Betting on $2 Billion Sale: Will the Market Blanch?

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The 15-story building that covers an entire block north of the meatpacking district looks more like a brick fortress than a sleek Park Avenue office tower.
But the owners put the building, at 111 Eighth Avenue between 15th and 16th Streets, up for sale, and are betting that the real estate market has rebounded to the point where buyers will pay a price worthy of a trophy, about $2 billion.
Investors, brokers and analysts are divided over whether the listing will hark back to the era of billion-dollar transactions or represent an outbreak of irrational exuberance only two years after the financial crisis snuffed out the greatest real estate boom of all time. Whatever happens, experts say, the sale may amount to a verdict on the vitality of the New York market, or at least the appetite for big deals. 
At nearly three million square feet, 111 Eighth is the fourth-largest office building in New York City (55 Water Street, with 3.8 million square feet, is the largest), packed with high-profile tenants like Google, Nike USA, barnesandnoble.com, Lifetime Entertainment and Deutsch advertising. It is practically full, and next year it will generate net operating income of nearly $100 million.
''There haven't been any sales of this size post-financial crisis,'' said Dan Fasulo of Real Capital Analytics, a real estate data firm. But, he said, ''it's a unique, mixed-use property in one of the best submarkets in Manhattan.'' He added, ''The real estate investment trusts will be all over it.''
Interest rates are low, and there are plenty of foreign investors and large private-equity firms with a stockpile of cash for bargains, especially in New York, which is regarded as relatively stable and one of the strongest markets in the country. But, Mr. Fasulo said, buyers will have to put up more cash than they did in the recent past, perhaps as much as $1 billion, a large risk even for deep pockets. The days when buyers could finance nearly the entire cost of a blockbuster deal are long gone.
Some investors, especially those who worry that the economy will dip again in 2011, say that real estate prices are already swirling too high. Douglas Durst, whose family owns 10 office towers in Midtown and recently bought a $100 million stake in 1 World Trade Center, described a two-tiered market of optimists and pessimists.
''There's the market for those of us who stopped smoking a while ago,'' he said, ''and those who started all over again.''
Douglas Harmon, a leading real estate broker who is managing the sale of 111 Eighth, said that even as the market improved this year, there had been few sales of high-quality buildings. He said 111 Eighth was unique in that it sits in a small but thriving neighborhood with a solid set of tenants whose leases do not expire for at least eight years.
''There are very few investment options in today's market, where interest rates are at historic lows, that provide yield, safety and secure growth,'' said Mr. Harmon, a senior managing director at Eastdil Secured. ''This property provides all three, plus it's a franchise that acts as a hedge against inflation.''
Some developers like Mr. Durst have refinanced their skyscrapers, but only a few buildings have changed hands, and none for the kind of numbers the owners are seeking. In May, SL Green, the city's largest landlord, sold its minority stake in the McGraw Hill Building on Avenue of the Americas in a deal that valued the tower at $1.28 billion, or $504 a square foot, about $175 less than the owners of 111 Eighth are hoping to get.
Boston Properties recently paid a higher price, on a per-square-foot basis, for 510 Madison, a smaller, newly completed office building without tenants. It paid $303 million, or $865.70 a square foot.
The building at 111 Eighth, which has 15-foot ceilings and unobstructed views, was built by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in 1932 for port-related businesses and as its headquarters. Originally, there were drive-in elevators that could lift heavy trucks to the top floor. But by 1972, Manhattan's shipping and passenger piers were silent, and the Port Authority sold the building to a private company.
In 1998, a partnership led by Taconic Investment Partners bought 111 Eighth and three other buildings for $387 million. Paul Pariser, a founder of Taconic, said the partners began going after telecom companies like Sprint and Verizon that needed lots of power for their computers and switches, which now account for about a quarter of the space in the building. They also went after a diverse group of tenants, starting with the Deutsch ad agency.
As the meatpacking district to the south became less about meat and more about fashion, chic hotels and galleries, the building took on a new aura. It became home to Google's local headquarters, WebMD, Bank of New York and Nike USA. Annual rents jumped from $20 per square foot to more than $50. And condominiums in the neighborhood sold for as much as $2,000 a square foot.
Taconic's current partners -- the New York State Common Retirement Fund and Jamestown, a German investment group -- are looking to sell a 90 percent stake, or even the entire property.
Peter G. Riguardi, president of Jones Lang LaSalle in New York, who is representing both the Bank of New York and the Bank of America in their search for additional office space, said the market had improved since 2008, when vacancies soared and values plunged by 30 percent and more. But, he said, the future is unclear.
''We're certainly not rolling backward anymore,'' Mr. Riguardi said. ''But when the dust settles, I don't know if there's going to be any positive absorption of space and an adding of new jobs. Without new jobs, we're not going to see growth in the market.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The owners of 111 Eighth Avenue, packed with tenants like Google, hope to sell for a premium. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



266 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: IndyCar Schedule Drops Watkins Glen for 2011

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

 BODY:
Although the Izod IndyCar Series has gained traction recently, picking up television viewers, sponsors and participants, Randy Bernard, its first-year chief executive, said that he would announce several major changes to the 2011 schedule Friday in Milwaukee. 
The most famous race in the series, the Indianapolis 500, will still be held Memorial Day weekend. But the series will drop four races at tracks owned by the International Speedway Corporation -- founded by Bill France, who earlier founded Nascar -- and pick up at least three others.
Most notably, the annual race at Watkins Glen, N.Y., which has not drawn well in six years as a stop in the series even though it is one of the world's most scenic racetracks, will be replaced with a new race on the streets of Baltimore on Sept. 4, 2011.
The changes were made, Bernard said in a telephone interview, to balance the schedule with a variety of sites.
The series has had a 25 percent increase in its television audience this year and landed 14 new sponsors in the last 12 months, Bernard said. The series consists of 17 races.
Referring to the relationship between the IndyCar Series and International Speedway, whose tracks are largely regarded as stock-car sites, Bernard said, ''I'm not sure we both have the same objective.''
The International Speedway president, John Saunders, said in a statement: ''We have been longtime supporters of the IndyCar Series, hosting nearly 70 IndyCar events since 1999. But the reality is that the motorsports entertainment industry and sports in general are facing tough economic times -- unlike any we've ever seen.''
Bernard will make Friday's announcement at the Milwaukee Mile, which opened in 1903. It will host a series race on June 19, 2011, after a one-year absence. A race at Chicagoland Speedway, an International Speedway track in Joliet, Ill., will be dropped.
Kansas Speedway, a one-and-a-half-mile International Speedway track in the Kansas City suburbs that recently picked up a second annual Nascar Sprint Cup Series race, will be dropped from the IndyCar Series schedule and replaced with an Aug. 14, 2011, race at the one-mile oval in Loudon, N.H.
Additionally, the season-ending race at the International Speedway track in Homestead, Fla., will be eliminated. It is likely to be replaced in 2011 by a race in Las Vegas. The Las Vegas track is owned by an International Speedway rival, Speedway Motorsports.
Speedway Motorsports also owns the track in New Hampshire. The next-to-last IndyCar race of the 2011 season, on Oct. 2, will be held at Kentucky Speedway, which Speedway Motorsports also owns. Races will also be run in Brazil and Japan.
The replacement of Watkins Glen International with Baltimore is probably the most significant development in the schedule. The United States Grand Prix, a Formula One race, was held at the track from 1961 to 1980, but IndyCars never caught on there.
''I'm not convinced it was marketed well,'' Bernard said of the race. ''Why in Toronto or Long Beach do they get great crowds year after year, and in Watkins Glen it's not up to par?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NASCAR RACING (77%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (85%); SPEEDWAY MOTORSPORTS INC (83%); WATKINS GLEN INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

TICKER: ISCA (NASDAQ) (85%); TRK (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (85%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (85%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); KENTUCKY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



267 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: In Missouri, State Budget Problems Take Toll on Lawyers for the Indigent

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
OZARK, Mo. -- Some public defenders in Missouri say the stressed state budget is interfering with their ability to provide poor defendants with their constitutional right to a lawyer.
They say they are so overworked and underfinanced that they have begun trying to reject new cases assigned to them late in the month, when, they say, their workloads are already beyond capacity.
Concerns about a deteriorating, overwhelmed public defender system in this country have been around for decades, but they have ballooned recently as state budgets shrink and more defendants qualify for free legal counsel.
''This has been a problem in good economic times, and now it's only worse,'' said Jo-Ann Wallace, president and chief executive of the National Legal Aid and Defender Association. ''What you have is a situation where the eligible pool of clients is increasing, crime rates are potentially increasing, while the resources often for public defenders are going down.'' 
Missouri's per capita spending on public defense ranks 49th in the nation (only Mississippi spends less), Ms. Wallace's group says. State officials say the defenders system, with its 570 employees, is expected to receive more than $34 million this year. The state public defender's office says a true solution would require 125 more lawyers, 90 more secretaries, 109 more investigators, 130 more legal assistants and more space -- all of which would cost about $21 million a year -- a seemingly impossible suggestion, given the fiscal climate.
In the meantime, they say, fiscal constraints are colliding with the requirement set forth in a 1963 Supreme Court decision, Gideon v. Wainwright, that poor people accused of serious crimes be provided with lawyers paid for by the government.
Last week, Jared Blacksher found his case sent to the Missouri Supreme Court -- not over the accusations that he had stolen prescription pain pills and a blank check, but over the issue of whether the state's public defender system is in such dismal shape that it ought not be forced to represent him.
The public defender's office had pleaded with the judge, repeatedly, not to assign it Mr. Blacksher's case. It was just the latest example of public defenders, charged with representing the poor and indigent, saying they cannot take a case because they have too many already and not enough staff to handle them all. Public defenders in jurisdictions from Florida to Minnesota to Arizona have either sued over their caseloads or refused to take new cases.
The judge in the Blacksher case rejected the public defender's pleas not to be forced to take it. ''It flies in the face of our Constitution,'' Judge John S. Waters told his Christian County courtroom here last month. ''It flies in the face of our culture. It flies in the face of the reason we came over here 300 and some-odd years ago to get out of debtors' prison.''
''I'm not saying the public defenders aren't overworked,'' Judge Waters said, but, ''I don't know how to move his case and how to provide him what the law of the land provides.''
But last Friday, the Missouri Supreme Court issued an order temporarily rescinding the assignment of public defenders in Mr. Blacksher's case, at least until the court can consider legal briefs on the question of the public defenders' latest demand to refuse cases.
Mr. Blacksher's case, which could now be delayed for several months, has become the center of a debate that long predates it in this state. To some, the signs of stress on the public defender system here have become overwhelming, even frightening: almost all the public defenders' 35 trial division offices lately carried caseloads that would require more than the total number of staff hours available in a month -- in some cases, more than two times the hours available, said Cat Kelly, deputy director for the Missouri State Public Defender System.
''Missouri's public defender system has reached a point where what it provides is often nothing more than the illusion of a lawyer,'' an outside report asked for by the Missouri Bar concluded last year.
Yet some county prosecutors here are deeply skeptical of the defenders' complaints. With the state facing $550 million less in general fund revenues than a year ago, they say, defenders are no more burdened than the next department.
''They say this every year,'' said Ron Cleek, the prosecuting attorney in Christian County, which includes Ozark, adding that he wondered whether some at the defenders offices might ''want to think about what time they come in and when they go home.''
''We all work hard,'' Mr. Cleek said. ''They just need to suck it up and get out there and get it done.''
Missouri's state auditor has announced her office will examine the public defender system to determine whether it is, indeed, overburdened.
Around the country, the indigent are defended by a hodgepodge of systems and financing sources. In some places, private lawyers are appointed by judges; elsewhere, statewide public defender networks (like Missouri's) have been created. Other jurisdictions use some combination of methods.
The public defenders in Missouri and elsewhere all ultimately pose a larger question: How far can defenders be stretched before they no longer provide poor people with the legal help ensured by Gideon?
''Is someone in prison who might have been acquitted if we had had more resources?'' Rod Hackathorn, the public defender for a three-county district that includes Ozark, asked the other day. ''You don't know. I'm sure that it's happened, and I don't know who it has happened to. And that's the scariest part of this all.''
Mr. Hackathorn's district is one of two in the state to begin announcing this summer that it was turning down cases, including Mr. Blacksher's. Nine others are taking steps to do the same.
So far, results for poor defendants are murky. In cases involving those not in custody, some judges have sidestepped the entire question, quietly advising defendants to wait for the start of a new month (and a fresh monthly caseload count) -- at which point their cases will be assigned to a public defender once more. In more serious cases, like Mr. Blacksher's, judges have rejected the public defenders' claims of ''unavailability.''
Hours after the State Supreme Court's decision in Mr. Blacksher's case, Mr. Blacksher, who is charged with burglary and forgery, seemed oblivious to what had happened and mystified by his brush with the debate over public defenders.
From the Christian County Jail, where he has been held since July, unable to afford bail, Mr. Blacksher, 22, said he had heard nothing of the delay in his case and was still expecting to be called from his cell for a hearing -- which had once been set for last Friday -- on its merits.
Just a day earlier, he had met with his assistant public defender and had agreed, he said, to plead guilty in exchange for a prison sentence that would most likely run several months. So far as he knew, he said, the public defender was still his lawyer, and his hearing might come any minute.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jared Blacksher was led back to jail in August after a hearing about who would represent him. The public defender's office in Missouri had pleaded with a judge not to be assigned his case. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMBER ARNOLD/SPRINGFIELD NEWS-LEADER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEFENDERS (93%); BUDGETS (92%); LAWYERS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LEGAL AID (78%); LITIGATION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); CRIME RATES (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); APPEALS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LEGAL AID & DEFENDER ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (59%) MISSOURI, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



268 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Read the Report

 BODY:
Iran has spent the last four years ignoring the United Nations' order to stop enriching uranium. And far too many of the world's major players have spent the last four years ignoring Iran's defiance. 
The good news is that many countries are finally waking up to the danger. In the three months since the United Nations Security Council adopted its latest round of sanctions, a growing number is turning up the heat on Tehran, implementing the United Nations penalties and, in some cases, going beyond them.
The United States, the European Union, Canada and Australia have approved national sanctions that aim to choke off Iran's access to foreign capital, halt investment in its energy sector and impede its shipping industry.
In recent days, Japan barred all transactions with 15 Iranian banks, the United Arab Emirates froze four Iranian bank accounts and South Korea announced plans to restrict foreign exchange transactions for 126 Iranian companies and individuals -- including the only Asian branch of Bank Mellat, one of Iran's largest banks. The sanctioned accounts, institutions and individuals are all associated with Iran's nuclear or missile programs.
The Obama administration, which has been pressing allies and others to take a much tougher line, went even further on Tuesday, sanctioning an Iranian-owned bank in Germany, the European-Iranian Trade Bank, or E.I.H. Bank, which is accused of facilitating billions of dollars of transactions for blacklisted Iranian companies. The move effectively shuts E.I.H. out of the American financial system.
Iran's government -- so far at least -- remains defiant. According to the latest report by the International Atomic Energy Agency, Iranian scientists are continuing their slow but steady production of low-enriched uranium and now have 6,108 pounds, up 15 percent from June. With further enrichment, that would be enough fuel for about two nuclear weapons.
Tehran has a long and cynical history of hiding nuclear facilities -- including its main enrichment site at Natanz and more recently discovered enrichment facility at Qum. If that isn't enough, an Iranian dissident group on Thursday said it has found evidence of yet another secret nuclear site. And Iran is still refusing to fully cooperate with inspections by the atomic energy agency. For the past two years, Iran has barred two of the agency's most experienced monitors. The report also says Iran is continuing to refuse to answer questions about whether it is hiding other facilities and whether its program has military uses, including a suspected project to fit a nuclear warhead on a missile.
American officials say said the new sanctions are beginning to bite -- choking Iran's access to foreign capital, trade and investments. If there is any chance of changing Tehran's behavior, it is clearly going to take more pressure and more time.
Countries that have adopted sanctions already need to implement them robustly. We are sure that the United Arab Emirates, a major hub for Iranian business activity, can find more than four accounts to freeze. Countries that for political or economic reasons are still enabling Iran -- China comes immediately to mind -- need to read that I.A.E.A. report again.
Tehran, predictably, insists it is not building a weapon. Its refusal to halt enrichment and cooperate with the I.A.E.A. makes that ever more impossible to believe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INSPECTIONS (76%); POWER PLANTS (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); BANK BRANCHES (68%)

COMPANY: BANK MELLAT (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (59%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (90%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



269 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Scott, Star in New York With Jets, Can't Put Ties to Baltimore Aside

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

 BODY:
Jets linebacker Bart Scott will never forget the seven seasons he spent in Baltimore. The Ravens were the first team that believed in him, the only team that offered him a chance at a workout.
In Baltimore, Scott went from anonymous undrafted free agent to special-teams standout to starting inside linebacker. He played alongside All-Pros like linebackerRay Lewis and safety Ed Reed, so many stars that Scott said he often felt like the youngest member of the Jackson Five.
Over lunch Wednesday in Manhattan's West Village, Scott kept coming back to Baltimore, to the city that embraced him, to the fans who identified with him, to the organization that developed him -- and will face him Monday night in the Jets' season opener at New Meadowlands Stadium.
''There's nothing like your first best friend, your first puppy love, the first time you bought all in,'' Scott said. ''You'll never have that same dynamic. You only have one first.'' 
The game will provide relief for Scott, who is still grappling with a family tragedy that occurred in June. On Father's Day, as Scott was flying back to New Jersey from Detroit, his hometown, the fiance of his oldest sister, Cutrice, was murdered there.
Cutrice Scott and Phillip Wade planned to marry. She had found a dress. That day, according to Scott, Wade returned home and found burglars inside. One stabbed him in the neck, and he bled to death in the arms of his 12-year-old son. When his sister reached Scott by cellphone, she could not speak.
Scott knows all about the dangers in Detroit. He once arrived at football practice at Southeastern High School to find a burned-out car in the middle of the field. His cousin was paralyzed in a random shooting at a bar.
''Cutrice is my biggest fan,'' Scott said. ''This crushed her. I wanted to protect her. I wanted her to have happiness, too. It's just tough, man. Detroit's a rough place.''
Scott has since assumed the role in which he feels most comfortable: as his family's source of strength. When his sister lost her job recently, he paid for her to go back to school to study interior design.
That mentality, Scott said, came from his upbringing and his family, and from the Baltimore Ravens. As Scott prepared to face his former team, he dealt with his sadness using the lessons he learned in Baltimore.
When Scott signed with the Ravens in 2002, he received a $500 signing bonus. That covered his phone bill and little else, but it allowed him entry into what Scott described as the N.F.L.'s version of Stanford for defensive players.
The City of Baltimore, he said, appreciated his story, his path from Southern Illinois to Lewis's side on the league's most intimidating defense. His mother, Dorita Adams, remembered the first time Scott ran out of the tunnel as a Ravens starter, how it was so loud that she could not hear his name. Scott blew her a kiss and mouthed, ''We did it.'' Tears rolled down her cheeks.
On a conference call Thursday, Baltimore Coach John Harbaugh said nobody threw his body into traffic quite the way Scott did.
Scott remains close with several Ravens players, including Edgar Jones, Le'Ron McClain and Terrell Suggs. Scott said he mostly identified with players who are like him: non-Hollywood, unglamorous guys ''who got their work done and got rewarded.''
Scott formed organizationwide relationships that endure for all weeks except this one. He befriended Ed Carroll, the Ravens' longtime equipment manager, who declined an interview request but helped Scott donate weight-lifting equipment to his high school.
Scott also found kinship with O. J. Brigance, a former N.F.L. linebacker who works in player development for the Ravens despite having amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The men played the same position and wore the same number (57). It was Brigance who helped persuade Scott to return to college, where he earned a degree in economics a few years back.
Scott followed Coach Rex Ryan to the Jets before last season. He remains surprised that the Ravens passed over Ryan to hire Harbaugh, but Scott knew instantly that he would follow Ryan anywhere. He wanted their careers connected.
''I'll ride with Rex, no matter what,'' Scott said. ''Tell me, who were the Jets before he got here? They were missing an identity. They were middle of the road. He turned this team into the most talked-about team in the N.F.L. All we have to do is back up his statements and, bam, instant success.''
Even after Scott left Baltimore, he remained involved with the city. With the help of Valarie Wideman, a receptionist for the Ravens, Scott continued to feed 400 homeless people on Thanksgiving and hand out Christmas toys and throw parties for children at local roller rinks. He continued to adopt a local elementary school.
Jones took over one of Scott's events. Running back Ray Rice took over another.
''I miss him so much,'' Wideman said of Scott. ''Everybody does. You still see people wearing his jersey in the street.''
That works both ways.
''Part of Bart's heart will always be in Baltimore,'' said Adams, his mother.
Part of Scott wanted to stay there, too, and the Ravens offered a comparable financial package. But Lewis was already the cornerstone at linebacker, and Ryan made it clear to Scott that he, not Lewis, was his first choice. ''I was always Plan A,'' Scott said. ''That was the first time in my life I was Plan A.''
Immediately after arriving in New York, Ryan and Scott set about imparting the Ravens' culture on the Jets.
Now, Scott said, when the teams meet Monday, ''they won't admit it, but I'm sure they miss Rex's genius on defense.''
''He ran so much of that team,'' Scott said. ''That defense is still good, but it's not the same as when Rex was there.''
As much as Scott credits the Ravens, he said he planned to go after them Monday night. The first time he played against Chester Taylor, a former Baltimore teammate, Scott lifted him and slammed him on his neck.
''They know me,'' Scott said. ''They know the storm is coming.''
EXTRA POINTS
As was widely expected, Rex Ryan named Matt Slauson the starter at left guard. Slauson, who is in his second year, had competed with the rookie Vladimir Ducasse for the position during training camp.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bart Scott said he wanted to follow Rex Ryan wherever he went after leaving Baltimore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY LYONS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (69%); BURGLARY (64%); INTERIOR DECORATING (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (89%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



270 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pushes I.M.F. to Give Bigger Role to Nations With Growing Economies

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and DAVID JOLLY; Sewell Chan reported from Washington, and David Jolly from Paris.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In a move that has met with resistance in Europe, the United States is pushing to reduce the Continent's influence over the International Monetary Fund and grant more of a say to economies outside of Europe that are growing and leading the global recovery.
The move could shape the governance of the fund, which has taken a more prominent and stronger role after the financial crisis. 
Since the onset of the crisis, the I.M.F.'s lending commitments have soared to $195 billion from less than $2 billion in 2007, and total capital on hand is set to rise to about $850 billion from $250 billion.
Though the timing of Washington's push surprised some European officials, it is part of an effort to realign the World War II-era financial architecture to reflect changes like China's emergence as the world's second-largest economy.
European countries occupy nine of the 24 seats on the fund's executive board, which represents the interests of all 187 members under a complex voting process that dates to the Bretton Woods system of economic cooperation, established in 1944.
Last month, American officials used a procedural maneuver to block the board from being reconstituted in its current form for another two years. Under its founding charter, the I.M.F. board is supposed to have 20 members, but the number was expanded to 24 under a succession of agreements starting in 1992.
''The underlying problem is that the Europeans are overrepresented relative to the size of their economies, and the developing countries are underrepresented,'' said Mark S. Copelovitch, a political scientist who studies the I.M.F. at the University of Wisconsin, Madison.
But the American push has met resistance in some European capitals.
''As things are, the number of directors from European countries exactly reflects the weight of European countries in the I.M.F., and there's no case to be made for European countries being overrepresented,'' Bertrand Benoit, a spokesman for the German finance ministry, said.
That may be true for now, but the world's biggest economies tentatively agreed last September to shift 5 percent of the voting power at the I.M.F. to developing and fast-growing economies. Details of that shift, which follows previous, slight changes in vote distribution, are expected to be negotiated at a summit meeting of leaders of the Group of 20 nations in Seoul, South Korea, in November.
European officials discussed the composition of the I.M.F. board in Brussels this week but reached no consensus. They hope to arrive at a common position before G-20 finance ministers meet for two days in Gyeongju, South Korea, starting Oct. 22.
''Finance ministers touched on this question over lunch this week, and we're looking forward to more converging views,'' said Amadeu Altafaj Tardio, a spokesman for the European Union's economic and monetary affairs commissioner, Olli Rehn.
With 16.7 percent of the fund's voting power, the United States is not only the most powerful I.M.F. member, but the only one that can unilaterally block changes to the fund's governing structure, which require 85 percent of total votes. The fund's loan programs, used in recent bailouts of Greece and Iceland, require a simple majority.
The United States, Japan, Germany, Britain and France each have a permanent vote on the board. Several other board members represent blocs of countries. For example, India casts its vote on behalf of Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka, while Sierra Leone and Rwanda, the two sub-Saharan African countries on the board, also represent 41 other countries on the continent.
There has been talk of creating a consolidated seat on the board to represent the 27 nations of the European Union, or the 16 countries in the monetary zone that uses the euro. Under such a reconfiguration, Belgium and Switzerland, and possibly the Netherlands, are seen as being among the most vulnerable to losing their seats.
European leaders have taken a cautious approach to the problem. At a news conference last week, Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, said it was ''very important for the Europeans to be united and to have a clear, united position.''
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the French politician who leads the I.M.F., has been similarly circumspect, though he has expressed support in the past for governance changes.
Natalie Wyeth, a spokeswoman for the United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said he supported ''reforming I.M.F. governance structures to better reflect the realities of today's global economy.''
She added: ''The United States is pressing for this change to advance multilateralism, to make the I.M.F. more representative and strengthen its legitimacy, and to enhance the voice of dynamic emerging market and developing countries.''
Domenico Lombardi, who represented Italy and several smaller European countries on the I.M.F. board from 2001 to 2005, said that changes in the board's structure were inevitable but should be phased in over as long as two years, to complement the 5 percent change in voting power.
''In the end, the Europeans will come up with a plan if they really see no alternative,'' said Mr. Lombardi, now president of the Oxford Institute for Economic Policy, a research organization in England, and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''Everybody concurs that the I.M.F. has to overhaul its governance and become a global institution, not just a trans-Atlantic institution. The U.S. policy move came about out of a sense of frustration.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



271 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: A White House Campaign for Factories

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Not since Ronald Reagan has an American president spoken so emphatically about the importance of manufacturing. ''We've got to go back to making things,'' Barack Obama says, embedding that view in his oratory. Yet manufacturing's presence in the American economy continues to shrink, defying the administration's attempts to reverse that trend.
The president has named Ron Bloom, a Harvard M.B.A. who has worked both on Wall Street and in the labor movement, as a special adviser to help tackle the problem. Mr. Bloom's tools, however, are limited. Apart from his persuasiveness, they have consisted mainly of tax credits and subsidies, many of them flowing to new industries, like the production of wind turbines, solar panels and auto batteries powerful enough to replace gasoline engines.
The goal is to invigorate private sector initiatives in these industries, then in a host of supplier companies and eventually throughout manufacturing. That, in a nutshell, is the administration's manufacturing strategy. 
But some, including the United Steelworkers union, say it is not enough. The union is pressing the administration to challenge China over what it calls unfair subsidies for its clean energy industries.
''The president has been very clear and articulate that we believe the nation's trade laws must be respected,'' Mr. Bloom said in an interview. Although he declined to comment on the complaint filed Thursday by the steelworkers, claiming that Chinese subsidies violated World Trade Organization rules, he noted that the administration had imposed tariffs on tubular steel and tires once the private sector successfully brought antidumping cases against China.
''Our policies assume that the dominant role in manufacturing will continue to be played by the private sector,'' Mr. Bloom said. ''We are not willing to accept manufacturing's decline, but it is simply not feasible to make the government the principal actor in its revival.''
No other sector has lost so much ground relative to the rest of the economy. Manufacturing's share of gross domestic product topped out at nearly 30 percent in the 1950s. It is 11 percent today. The fall has accelerated since 2007, with the recession a contributing factor.
The president reiterated the need for manufacturing in a speech on Wednesday in Cleveland. ''We see a future where we invest in American innovation and American ingenuity; where we export more goods so we create more jobs here at home; where we make it easier to start a business or patent an invention; where we build a homegrown clean energy industry, because I don't want to see new solar panels or electric cars or advanced batteries manufactured in Europe or in Asia. I want to see them made right here in the U.S. of A. by American workers.''
The Obama administration argues, often through Mr. Bloom, that the United States cannot sustain itself as a global economic power without a thriving manufacturing sector. Too much research and development, too many well-paid jobs and too many exports flow from manufacturing.
Mr. Bloom, speaking more forcefully than others in the administration, challenges the idea that research and development can be pursued entirely separate from production. In his view, Americans cannot excel at high-end innovation while factory production continues to decline or to slip overseas. ''I am deeply afraid that if you lose the ability to make things,'' he said, ''all the intellectual activity involved in innovation and design will over time erode as well.''
Grumbling by American manufacturers is fairly constant on Mr. Bloom's trips to the heartland as the president's senior counselor for manufacturing, his official title. On his most recent trip, to Cleveland -- he has visited nearly two dozen cities since his appointment a year ago -- more than 60 executives and factory owners in northeastern Ohio listened, and then had their say. In some cases, they called for a more expansive government role in manufacturing, along the lines of China, Germany or Japan.
''We don't have to reinvent the wheel,'' said Andre Morrison, an executive at Green Mill Global, which makes lighting products. ''But why can't we model our policies on those of other countries, where government and private industry are in bed together?''
Mr. Morrison's biggest complaint was credit. He said he knew five or six established companies that wanted to expand within the United States but could not get loans from commercial banks. He asked, in effect, that the federal government expand its support for such loans, and Mr. Bloom replied that the administration was doing just that, but with a caveat. ''It is not government's role to direct banks to lend to particular companies or industries,'' he explained.
That unwillingness to interfere with the private sector is characteristic of the administration's industrial policy. Shunning even the term, Mr. Bloom prefers to call it a ''manufacturing strategy.''
Still, some of the Ohio executives pushed for more intervention. Several seemed to nod in agreement when William N. McCreary, a vice president of the NSG Group, said that private equity firms and other financiers frequently asked for an American manufacturer's ''China strategy,'' meaning that having an operation in China made a company more worthy of financial support.
The NSG Group, which makes flat glass of the sort used in auto windshields, operates in many countries, including China, and is based in Japan. Even so, Mr. McCreary, who is based in Toledo, Ohio, sounded perplexed by this lack of faith in American producers.
''The private equity world is heavily on the side that you have to be in China,'' he said. ''It thinks the U.S. is not a place you make things.''
Mr. Bloom, working out of a Treasury Department office with few assistants, aims to reverse that way of thinking. At 55, he brings to the job the business degree he earned in 1985, followed by 11 years on Wall Street as an investment banker and a slightly longer stint as a special assistant to the president of the United Steelworkers.
President Obama drafted him from the Steelworkers to serve as co-chairman of the auto task force in the bailout of General Motors and Chrysler -- the administration's initial venture into manufacturing strategy.
The unions say much more is needed. Too many jobs have been lost over the years; too many factories have shut or moved overseas, and they want a more muscular strategy than the Obama administration has fielded.
''There are two pieces to what it would take to rejuvenate manufacturing,'' said Thea Lee, deputy chief of staff to Richard L. Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''One is trade policy, a more restrictive approach than the free trade, open borders arrangement that we now have. The other is to reward domestic production. When the government makes a purchase, for example, the presumption should be that the first crack goes to manufacturers who stay within the United States.''
Mr. Bloom notes the criticism and, without disputing it, replies that manufacturing strategy in the Obama administration, modest as it is, is nevertheless ''huge'' in comparison with previous administrations, which generally accepted the proposition that manufacturing's decline was inevitable in a mature, service-oriented economy.
Mr. Reagan, in contrast, responded to the Rust Belt crisis and the onslaught of imported cars, steel and computer chips, mostly from Japan, by imposing import quotas to protect American manufacturers. In addition, he negotiated a currency revaluation that enhanced the dollar in trade. His administration financed Sematech, which brought together semiconductor manufacturers in the cooperative development of new technology. He even got the Japanese to commit to purchases of a set amount of American-made computer chips.
''In those days, you had many more U.S. companies that cared about these issues,'' said Scott Paul, executive director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing. ''It was the electronics industry that went to Washington, en masse, and pushed successfully for the creation of Sematech.''
The world has changed since the early 1980s. The giant corporations -- General Electric, Boeing, Caterpillar, Whirlpool and Intel, among others -- still had most of their production in the United States. They have since become global behemoths, selling into foreign markets principally from overseas factories. As those sales rose, so did the nation's trade deficit. And now, when these multinationals speak out, they mainly aim to support their worldwide operations through free trade agreements and lowered tariffs.
The Obama administration is counting on sharp increases in exports to buoy the nation's manufacturers. The president has set a goal of doubling exports in the next five years. But he rules out subsidies. Instead, he emphasizes stepped-up financing from the Export-Import Bank and ''much more aggressive diplomacy in representing U.S. producers,'' which means using embassy personnel as sales people.
Mr. Bloom acknowledges that such steps take time to produce results. ''We have been insufficiently committed to manufacturing for a long time,'' he said. ''We are not going to fix it in an afternoon.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As the president's chief adviser on manufacturing, Ron Bloom hears much grumbling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN BLAZE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Industrial Decline: Manufacturing's share of the gross domestic product has declined more quickly in recent years. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Moody's Analytics) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); WIND POWER PLANTS (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); WIND ENERGY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



272 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Top Adviser To Lead Panel On Economy

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama on Friday will promote a longtime economic adviser, Austan D. Goolsbee, to chairman of his Council of Economic Advisers, signaling continuity even as a high unemployment rate has left much of the public dissatisfied with administration policies.
Mr. Obama's decision to elevate Mr. Goolsbee, a left-of-center economist, to succeed Christina D. Romer, who returned this month to the University of California, Berkeley, is part of a broader flux within the White House economic team, as architects of the government's response to the worst recession in 80 years begin moving up and out and their roles shift. 
Mr. Goolsbee has been serving as a member of the three-person advisory panel since the beginning of the Obama administration.
No other major changes are expected, officials say, reflecting a theme the president sounded on Wednesday in an economic address near Cleveland, that the country should ''keep moving forward with policies that are slowly pulling us out.''
Republican leaders in Congress, and a few endangered Democrats seeking to distance themselves from the White House before the midterm elections, have called for Mr. Obama to fire his top advisers, including the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner. But Mr. Geithner, who did not know Mr. Obama previously, has become one of the president's most trusted advisers, credited with successfully managing the financial bailout and recovering most of the taxpayers' money. He is expected to remain for some time.
Asked on PBS's ''NewsHour'' this week about the calls for him to be fired, Mr. Geithner quipped, ''It's an old idea. A lot of people have had it, and my wife had it first, I think.'' He added, ''I'm going to do this as long as the president asks me to do it.''
Similarly, Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the White House National Economic Council, is not expected to leave soon, officials say, despite his history of run-ins with other advisers, and Mr. Obama's occasional impatience with the policy vetting process that Mr. Summers oversees.
Mr. Obama and the other advisers nonetheless value Mr. Summers's contributions as a renowned economist and former secretary of the Treasury in the Clinton administration, these officials say.
Yet the other two principals in Mr. Obama's economic inner circle -- Ms. Romer and Peter R. Orszag, his budget director -- left in recent weeks, largely for personal reasons, giving Mr. Obama the opening to remake his team. But for both vacancies, Mr. Obama has now picked people from within his administration.
To succeed Mr. Orszag, who left in July, the president nominated Jack Lew, who has been a deputy secretary of state and was a budget director in the Clinton administration. Mr. Lew is not on the job yet but is awaiting confirmation by the Senate.
Because Mr. Goolsbee has been confirmed by the Senate as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, he does not need approval to become the chairman -- not a small consideration at the White House, given how often the president's nominees become bogged down in partisans skirmishes.
Another factor initially worked against Mr. Goolsbee's elevation -- his sex -- and that also played a part in his being passed over for the chairman post at the start of the administration. Ms. Romer was the only woman among Mr. Obama's top economic advisers, and administration officials considered whether to name a woman to replace her.
Also, at 41, Mr. Goolsbee would be the youngest chairman since Arthur M. Okun held the job from 1968 to 1969 under President Lyndon B. Johnson. (Mr. Okun is known for Okun's Law, which describes the relationship between changes in employment and changes in output.)
But Mr. Goolsbee, an amateur comic as well as an economist, was a favorite within the White House, where many colleagues felt he had earned the chairmanship. He has tense relations with Mr. Summers, however, after policy disputes in the early crisis-driven debates over the rescues of the financial industry and Chrysler, among other issues.
Mr. Goolsbee, who has a free-market bent, opposed bailing out Chrysler. He did not prevail, but Mr. Obama personally sought his arguments.
The Council of Economic Advisers traditionally provides analysis of the economy and of the potential economic impact of proposed policies. But because the office is largely divorced from politics and located in a building separate from the White House, many past chairmen have had limited influence. Ms. Romer, however, was routinely included in the West Wing deliberations of the last 20 months, and Mr. Goolsbee is likely to be as well.
And unlike Ms. Romer or most past chairmen, Mr. Goolsbee has a previous, friendly relationship with the president. Mr. Goolsbee was an economics professor at the University of Chicago when Mr. Obama taught at its law school. He provided economic advice when Mr. Obama ran for the Senate and for president.
Mr. Goolsbee was at the center of a controversy during the Democratic race for the presidential nomination when it was reported that he had told a Canadian official in Chicago that Mr. Obama's protectionist campaign talk was ''more reflective of political maneuvering than policy'' he would support as president. While Mr. Goolsbee denied the account, as an economist he does espouse a free trade philosophy.
Mr. Goolsbee has also been the staff director of the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, a panel of business, labor and academic officials providing outside perspective. As such he worked closely with Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, and shared with him a preference for tougher regulation of the financial industry than Mr. Geithner and others espoused.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Austan D. Goolsbee 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); RECESSION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

PERSON: AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (78%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); PETER ORSZAG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



273 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Trading Away the Stimulus

BYLINE: By ALAN TONELSON and KEVIN L. KEARNS. 
Alan Tonelson, a fellow at the United States Business and Industry Council, is the author of ''The Race to the Bottom.'' Kevin L. Kearns is the president of the council, which is an association of small manufacturers.

 BODY:
Washington
THE trade figures from the Commerce Department this week aren't pretty: despite anemic economic growth, so far this year America's trade deficit has hit $289 billion, compared with $204 billion for the same period in 2009.
For many people, the trade deficit seems unrelated to the nation's continued economic crisis. But it is actually a central reason why American growth has lagged and President Obama's stimulus hasn't led to a robust recovery: since February 2009, the government has injected $512 billion into the American economy, but during roughly the same period, the trade deficit leaked about $602 billion out of it and into foreign markets. 
Consequently, a successful recovery strategy will require aggressive measures to reduce the trade deficit -- including new and expanded tariffs to encourage the sale of domestic goods over imports and a serious reindustrialization policy to create the manufacturing strength to exploit these new opportunities.
Advocates of traditional stimulus measures, like increased government spending or tax cuts, rely on recovery models rooted in, respectively, the 1930s and 1980s. Back then government stimulus and tax cuts made sense, because Americans spent almost all the new money on domestically produced goods and services.
For the last few decades, though, our growing trade deficit has undermined the relationship between spending and growth. Today Americans purchase so many foreign-produced goods and services that even large stimulus programs produce virtually no new net growth or employment at home.
Of course, trade deficits have subtracted from American economic prosperity for decades. But until recently, that damage was masked by artificial sources of growth, like the last decade's credit and housing bubbles. With these phony economic engines gone, the trade deficit's impact has become painfully clear.
President Obama's pledge to double exports in five years at least shows the White House is aware of the problem. But without greater reductions in imports, even a doubling of exports would fail to generate substantial net growth or job increases.
It's also true, as some claim, that the rising personal saving rate could reduce the trade deficit. Indeed, the deficit dropped from July to August in part because American consumers saved more and thus bought fewer foreign goods and services. But increased saving cuts both ways -- consumers buy fewer domestic goods and services, too. Higher savings might bring down our trade deficit, but growth would still stagnate.
Fortunately, the government can take other, more effective steps to reduce the trade deficit. For starters, Congress and the president should allow American victims of currency manipulation -- primarily industrial companies whose prices are kept artificially high when trade partners keep their currencies under-valued -- to obtain compensatory tariffs against currency-subsidized imports.
Second, ''Buy American'' requirements for federal procurement should be expanded to cover all spending at every level of government.
Also essential is a border tax to counter foreign export rebates. In countries with value-added taxes, those levies are returned to producers when they export their goods -- which allows them to lower their products' prices in our market. In response, we can ensure fair competition in our home market by applying a tax equal to the rebate upon a product's entry to the American market.
Finally, America needs more sweeping and proactive tariffs on foreign goods and services that compete directly with existing and start-up domestic producers. Opponents insist that significant tariffs would increase international trade tensions. Experience, however, suggests otherwise.
In 1971, President Richard Nixon set unilateral tariffs against Japan, Germany and other countries that refused to let their currencies rise in value. Far from setting off a trade war, the tariffs persuaded other countries to help rebalance the world economy cooperatively. There's no reason the same thing couldn't happen today.
These steps would revolutionize American trade policy. They would require suspending some international trade obligations Washington has spent years fighting for. But in such perilous economic times, trade-policy conventions can hardly remain sacrosanct. Otherwise, imports will continue to sabotage the recovery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SAVINGS RATES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); TAX LAW (72%); HOME PRICES (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



274 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Mexico: Comparison Is Rejected

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
President Obama denied on Thursday that rising drug violence made Mexico look increasingly like Colombia at the height of its drugs war, rebuffing comments made by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. ''Mexico is a vast and progressive democracy, with a growing economy, and as a result you cannot compare what is happening in Mexico with what happened in Colombia 20 years ago,'' Mr. Obama told the Los Angeles-based Spanish language newspaper La Opinion. His remarks appeared a day after Mrs. Clinton told a foreign policy research group in Washington that cartels operating in Mexico and Central America were starting to look like an ''insurgency,'' and that Mexico was ''looking more and more like Colombia looked 20 years ago, where the narco-traffickers control certain parts of the country.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (86%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



275 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Bank of England Leaves Rate at 0.5% on Signs of Slowing

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
The British central bank held steady Thursday on its benchmark interest rate amid new warnings that the recovery among major economies appeared to be losing steam faster than anticipated.
The Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee left the official bank rate at 0.5 percent. It also voted to maintain its purchases of financial assets at $:200 billion, or $308 billion, to ease credit market conditions. Economists surveyed by Reuters and Bloomberg had unanimously predicted the outcome.
The decision came just after the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast that growth in the Group of 7 countries would reach an annualized rate of about 1.5 percent in the second half of 2010, compared with its estimate of 1.75 percent in May. 
The global monetary authorities have driven official interest rates to record lows in the hope of reinvigorating lending and nursing wounded banks back to health.
The Federal Reserve's benchmark rate is 0.25 percent, while the Bank of Japan's is 0.1 percent and the European Central Bank's is 1 percent.
The Bank of England governor, Mervyn A. King, and his colleagues on the committee have not changed the overnight lending rate since March 5, 2009, even though inflation, at 3.1 percent in August, remains above the bank's officially mandated ceiling of 2 percent.
Bank officials argue that the risks posed by economic stagnation are greater than the threat of rising prices. The rate of inflation has been declining since April, when it peaked at 3.7 percent.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, based in Paris, cited weakening economic output in the United States as one reason for lowering its forecast.
The Commerce Department reported last month that gross domestic product in the United States rose at an annualized rate of 1.6 percent in the second quarter, revised down from an estimate of 2.4 percent, and on Wednesday the Federal Reserve reported ''widespread signs'' of slowing.
But the organization's chief economist, Pier Carlo Padoan, played down the possibility of a double-dip recession.
''The uncertainty is caused by a combination of both positive and negative factors,'' he said in a statement. ''But it is unlikely that we are heading into another downturn.''
''While consumer spending is set to remain weak, a combination of robust corporate profits and low business investment suggest that capital spending is unlikely to weaken further,'' the report said. ''Because inventories are now close to desired levels, a renewed depletion of stocks is also unlikely.''
The organization noted that it remains unclear whether the decreasing momentum of recovery was temporary ''or whether it signals greater underlying weaknesses in private spending at a time when policy support is being removed.''
Recent economic news from Britain has been mixed. The economy grew 1.2 percent in the second quarter compared with the first three months of the year, its best performance since before the global financial crisis, as manufacturing remained strong.
But recent data suggests that the job market is cooling and households are squeezed, leading many economists to predict that growth will slow significantly.
''British business will find it very difficult to drive the recovery without a prolonged period of low interest rates,'' David Kern, chief economist for the British Chambers of Commerce, said before the central bank announcement. ''Any consideration of raising interest rates should be dismissed until the middle of 2011 at the earliest.''
George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, will in October present a plan to cut government spending, partly by laying off public sector workers. The government will also increase taxes as it works to reduce a deficit of 11 percent of gross domestic product to 2.1 percent over the next five years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



276 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Arrests in Bahrain: The Government's View

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Security Crackdown in Bahrain Hints of End to Reforms'' (news article, Aug. 27) and ''Bahrain: Opposition Leader Charged With Trying to Overthrow Government'' (World Briefing item, The New York Times on the Web, Aug. 31): 
With respect to recent reporting of arrests in Bahrain, it is important to be clear why the government has taken action.
Against the backdrop of continuing incidences of violence and public disorder, arrests were made because significant evidence was discovered of a network planning and instigating attacks on public property and inciting violence. Upholding the rule of law requires us to protect the rights of all citizens, including those at risk of violence, and we cannot tolerate illegal activities that seek to undermine our values and endanger lives.
Bahrain, under King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa, is on a democratic path rarely seen in the region. As with all countries, this process takes time, but change is evident for all to see, with dramatic reductions in unemployment over the last decade and genuine forums for debate created whether it is through Parliament or our free press, just two examples.
Our commitment to further reform within an open, tolerant Middle East society remains undiminished.
Houda Ezra Ebrahim Nonoo Ambassador of Bahrain Washington, Sept. 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHRAIN (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



277 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Transit Board Candidates Press Ahead, Off the Radar

BYLINE: By ZUSHA ELINSON. 
zelinson@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
AC Transit, the bus agency that serves Oakland, Berkeley and much of the East Bay, is facing a financial crisis.
The district, with an annual budget of more than $300 million and a daily ridership of 210,000, is confronting a $56 million budget shortfall over the next two years. It is at war with the drivers union. Widespread service cuts are pending. 
Now, 24-year-old Mark Williams is stepping into the breach as a candidate for the powerful AC Transit Board. A student at Laney College, Mr. Williams lives with his parents in Castro Valley.
His opponent for the seat -- which became open when Rocky Fernandez decided last month not to seek re-election -- is Gavin Wilgus, 31, a graduate student.
It is a race that is not on the radar of most people except for the labor union members. When Mr. Williams and a half-dozen other board candidates filed into the Alameda Labor Council offices Wednesday for their endorsement interviews, Mr. Williams arrived early.
''My father taught me two things,'' he said. ''Always shake a man's hand firm, and always keep your word. Show up when you say you're going to show up.''
The platform for Mr. Williams -- who sits on the Accessibility Advisory Committee for AC Transit -- includes reducing the carbon footprint of AC Transit, making buses more accessible to the elderly and easing tensions with the drivers union, which has endorsed him.
Mr. Wilgus, who is studying public administration at California State University, East Bay, said he would like to increase ridership by marketing the bus line and improve communication with the union.
Four of the board's six seats are being contested. Board members serve a four-year term and are paid about $1,000 a month. In the waiting room, none of the candidates had entourages of reporters or campaign consultants.
''It doesn't have the same sexiness as City Council or mayor,'' said Elsa Ortiz, a lawyer and an incumbent in the district that represents San Leandro and Oakland. ''People don't pay that much attention to it. As far as campaigns go, it's low-hanging fruit -- but don't say that!''
James Sajadi, 63, a retired AC Transit mechanic, outlined his campaign plan: talking to people he knows. ''I don't campaign; I don't have a penny to spend,'' said Mr. Sajadi, a challenger in the Newark and Fremont district. ''Not a sign, not a flier, nothing.''
Still, the issues are important. As they waited to be interviewed, Mr. Sajadi questioned Ms. Ortiz about how the situation had deteriorated on her watch. And she explained that with low tax revenue, and less state and federal financing, the board had been forced to make difficult decisions.
After the 30-minute labor council interview, Mr. Williams spoke excitedly about having known some of his questioners from political campaigns he had worked on. He said he had a good feeling.
''I hype everything up like it's going to be the end of the world, but it was fine,'' he said. ''It was just like a discussion, and some of them told me they liked what I had to say.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MAYORS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); CITIES (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



278 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
POLICE MAY HAVE SHOT
Tourists, Philippines Says
The Philippine government acknowledged for the first time that some of the Hong Kong tourists killed aboard a hijacked bus last month in Manila might have died from police fire. PAGE A4
CHINESE LAWYER IS RELEASED 
Chen Guangcheng, a lawyer imprisoned by the Chinese authorities in 2006 after exposing government abuses, was released but confined to his home in Shandong Province, surrounded by guards. PAGE A6
BANKER RESIGNS AMID FUROR
Germany's central bank announced that it agreed to part ways with Thilo Sarrazin, the author of a recently released book on immigration that caused a firestorm by accusing Muslims of refusing to integrate into German society. PAGE A6
IRAN TO RELEASE ONE HIKER
Iran plans to release Sarah E. Shourd, one of the three American hikers detained and accused of spying last year. PAGE A8
SOMALI AIRPORT IS ATTACKED
Suicide bombers attacked Mogadishu's main airport shortly after a high-level United Nations delegation met with Somali officials in an attempt to resolve an escalating internal political dispute. PAGE A9
National
COURT REJECTS CITY'S EFFORTS
To Restrict Immigrants
A federal appeals court upheld a lower court ruling striking down ordinances adopted by the city of Hazleton, Pa., that barred illegal immigrants from renting housing or being employed there. PAGE A10
A VIDEO GAME GOES TOO FAR
A number of combat video games develop from a close working relationship between video game producers and the military. But there is a rupture in that relationship after the Army, Air Force and Navy said they would refuse to sell on their bases a game that allows a user to become a Taliban fighter and attack United States troops. PAGE A10
STEM CELL BAN ENDS FORNOW
A federal appeals court ruled that federal financing of embryonic stem cell research could continue while the court considers a judge's order last month that banned the government from underwriting the work. PAGE A12
SCHOOLS FACE SUITS OVER FEES
Public schools across the nation, many facing budget shortfalls, have been charging students fees to use textbooks or to take required tests or courses. Now a civil liberties group is suing California over those proliferating fees, arguing that the state has failed to protect the right to a free public education. PAGE A12
Business
WITH WHITE HOUSE BACKING,
A Manufacturing Emissary
Trying to reinvigorate manufacturing's presence in the American economy, President Obama has named Ron Bloom, a Harvard M.B.A. who has worked both on Wall Street and in the labor movement, as a special adviser to help tackle the problem. Mr. Bloom's tools, however, are limited. PAGE B1
Sports
TURKEY CHANNELED TV SHOW
As Basketball Caught On
The television series ''White Shadow'' was about a former N.B.A. player whose career was cut short by a knee injury and who takes over as coach of a high school basketball team. Surprisingly, Turkey's rapid rise as a basketball power can be traced, in part, to the series, which appeared on TV there from 1980 to 1982. PAGE B10
Weekend
GOODNESS GRACIOUS!
A Meeting of Two Killers
Levi Kreis, the actor who plays Jerry Lee Lewis in ''Million Dollar Quartet,'' recently met the real-life Mr. Lewis. Sure, it was public relations that brought them together, but rock 'n' roll's Killer will also take the stage to play with the cast of the Broadway musical. PAGE C1
Obituaries
THOMAS GUINZBURG, 84
An editor and publisher who helped create The Paris Review, the enduring lion of American literary magazines, he later became president of Viking Press, the publishing house founded by his father. PAGE A21
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (87%); TOYS & GAMES (86%); COMPUTER GAMES (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HIKING (78%); LAWYERS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TEXTBOOKS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); TALIBAN (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ARMIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); ESPIONAGE (72%); JUDGES (72%); ORDINANCES (71%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); WRITERS (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); AIR FORCES (68%); APPEALS (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); RELIGION (55%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SHANDONG, CHINA (73%) PHILIPPINES (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); SOMALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



279 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Next Mayor Will Face Tough Decisions to Solve Financial Mess

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS and MICK DUMKE

 BODY:
Everybody who is anybody in Chicago politics has been mentioned as a possible replacement for Mayor Richard M. Daley after his shocking retirement announcement this week. But rather than pondering their chances, potential candidates might take a good look at City Hall's balance sheet and ask themselves another question: Who would want to deal with this mess?
City Hall's budget of about $6 billion is hundreds of millions of dollars short every year. Allies and critics of the outgoing mayor agree that there is no simple and politically palatable solution to the budget deficit, which is estimated to hit a record $655 million for 2011.
The new mayor will have to raise taxes and cut services, said Alderman Edward Burke (14th Ward), the chairman of the City Council's Finance Committee and one of the many local politicians who have not ruled out a mayoral run. 
''Not only have we run out of rabbits, we have run out of hats,'' Mr. Burke said.
Mr. Daley was largely able to avoid those tough choices in recent years because he balanced his budgets with proceeds from the long-term privatization deals for the Chicago Skyway and the city's parking-meter system, which together generated more than $3 billion.
Mr. Burke said he expected that Mr. Daley's final budget, which administration officials will propose in early October for 2011, would drain what remained of the revenues from those deals.
''I think it is pretty obvious that there is no other choice,'' he said.
William Beavers, a Cook County Board commissioner who was chairman of the council's Budget Committee from 2001 to 2006, said, ''They just about sold everything they could sell, so the next mayor is going to catch hell.''
Some observers said that making the necessary cuts or tax increases would doom Mr. Daley's successor to a much shorter tenure than the mayor's 21-year run.
The city's financial state will be ''the overarching issue of the mayoral race,'' said Jerry Morrison, the Illinois political director for the Service Employees International Union, the top political campaign donor in the state.
''If you want to talk about crime in many communities, we are short 2,000 officers, and hiring more means money,'' Mr. Morrison said. ''If you want to talk about education, there is a deficit at the Chicago Public Schools, and that means money.''
Mr. Daley carefully crafted an image as the chief executive of a city government that operated like a corporation. As the city's finances soured, he and his aides blamed the general economic downturn for the budget woes. In recent weeks, the mayor repeatedly asserted that Chicago was doing better financially than the state or federal government and other major American cities.
The city's credit rating was downgraded last month by Fitch agency analysts, who noted that Chicago's government has been living beyond its means for years. The Wall Street analysts pointed out that the city began drawing on its reserves in 2006 and 2007, before the economy went into recession.
Gene Saffold, Mr. Daley's chief financial officer, explained the credit downgrade by saying Chicago's bond rating was still no lower than that of New York or Los Angeles.
But the analysts gave Chicago a ''negative'' financial outlook while rating New York and Los Angeles as ''stable.'' New York has saved enough money to offset its 2011 budget shortfall, along with spending cuts, a rollback of property tax cuts and conservative revenue projections, according to the Fitch analysts.
They also noted that New York's pensions were ''well funded.'' Chicago's are badly underfunded, and no major reforms have been enacted, although Mr. Daley formed a commission to address the issue.
Moreover, while New York generated and saved budget surpluses in the economic boom, the Daley administration did not build nearly as large a cushion into its budgets as government finance experts recommend.
Chicago's budget hole in 2012 is likely to be at least as large as the projected record deficit for 2011, said Dana Levenson, who was Mr. Daley's chief financial officer from 2004 to 2007.
''I don't think many of the people who want the job now are thinking about it,'' Mr. Levenson said of the mushrooming ranks of mayoral hopefuls.
In recent years, Mr. Daley refrained from raising property taxes and relied heavily on revenues that rise and fall with the general economy, including the tax on real- estate sales.
Even though the problems are worsened by the poor economy, experts speak of a structural deficit facing Chicago. The city's costs are rising faster than inflation, at a time when revenues are dropping.
Costs are high in part because the mayor entered into a 10-year deal in 2007 with major unions representing city employees. The agreement promised attractive wage increases and benefits for blue-collar city workers like garbage collectors, snow plow drivers and hoisting engineers.
Unions representing city employees have agreed to forgo wage increases this year and to take as many as 24 unpaid furlough days, which amount to a 9 percent pay cut. But there is no guarantee that labor leaders will agree to those concessions as part of the city's 2011 fiscal plans or to help balance the next mayor's budgets.
Personnel costs make up 80 percent of the city's budget, and most of that money goes toward paying police and firefighters. That severely limits the city's ability to address the budget deficit without sharp cuts in public-safety services.
For instance, firefighters are paid $65,000 to $82,000 a year, while garbage-truck drivers receive an hourly wage of $32.95, which works out to almost $70,000 a year before the furlough days.
Worker wages rose because officials wanted to offer pay that is competitive with the private sector's, said Alderman Helen Shiller (46th Ward), who is not seeking re-election after more than 20 years in office.
''The problem is really the employee costs,'' Ms. Shiller said. ''There was a real attempt in the 1980s and 1990s to meet the market rate for the different jobs that we had, and we were a little schizophrenic about it. On the one hand, we said we had to be competitive. On the other, why are we paying so much for these people?''
One option is to tap the huge reserves in the mayor's tax increment financing accounts, a development tool relying on tax dollars that would otherwise go to schools, parks and other units of local government. Derided by some critics as a mayoral ''slush fund'' for real- estate developers, the accounts have accumulated about $500 million a year. Mr. Daley has long defended the program as crucial to encouraging economic development, but he recently said he would consider draining the accounts to help bring down the deficit.
''That's not really a silver bullet,'' said Mr. Burke, the finance committee chairman.
By state law, only about 20 percent of the money taken from the accounts could directly aid city finances, with the rest going to schools and parks after all.
Despite carrying an already heavy debt load, aldermen this week approved Mr. Daley's plan to borrow $1 billion to continue expanding O'Hare International Airport.
Bill Abolt, the budget director for Mr. Daley from 2002 to 2004, said that avoiding deficits would require a new mayor willing to do what has been unthinkable at City Hall for years: privatizing garbage collection, gradually raising property taxes and focusing a smaller police force more intensely on high-crime neighborhoods.
''You simply cannot maintain Mayor Daley's vision with the current sources of revenue,'' Mr. Abolt said. ''The money is not there for the services and the capital projects that the mayor was delivering. It just doesn't add up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Richard M. Daley's plan to borrow $1 billion to continue expanding O'Hare International Airport increases the city's debt load. His privatization deal for the city's parking meters, though criticized, brought in more than $1 billion for the city. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM BOYLE/GETTY IMAGES
 JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); POLITICS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX INCREASES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



280 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: An Ascendant Nimby Crowd Threatens the Fun

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.; sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Scott James is a columnist for The Bay Citizen.
When students return to Stanford University on Sept. 20 for the fall quarter, thousands are expected to line up for a new elective: sandwiches at Ike's Place.
The eatery just opened a branch on campus, two months after its Redwood Shores location became so overwhelmed that only phone orders are now taken. Other shops are planned for Burlingame and Santa Rosa.
These should be joyous days for Ike Shehadeh, the owner, but, as the saying goes, it's complicated. 
''I'm eager to be somewhere where we're welcomed with open arms,'' Mr. Shehadeh said.
In San Francisco's Castro district, where the first Ike's opened and became a sensation for its savory sandwiches with quirky names, the eatery has faced a litany of complaints to city agencies about noisy crowds, trash and kitchen smells, and it could be forced out of business. That has angered customers, but critics say it is also emblematic of a larger issue, one that might sound frivolous but has troubling implications for the city's economic future.
It has been nicknamed ''the death of fun'' -- the idea that a once-playful populace has in recent years turned into a phalanx of Gladys Kravitz-style meddling, whining neighbors.
Curtailing the good times could have serious consequences, says Michael Cohen, the city's chief of economic development.
''San Francisco's economy and vibrancy as a city is based on a lot of energetic, talented, educated, young people who want to live here,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''San Francisco has to be careful not to make this not a fun place to be.''
A recent survey by Portfolio magazine ranked San Francisco No. 6 in its Fun Index of American cities (New York, Chicago and Boston were the top three), with the city making the top 10 primarily for its food.
Trying to quantify any decline in fun is problematic, but examples seem to abound:
In the Mission, neighbors complained about a popular roof deck at the nightspot Medjool , even though it had operated for years, and the Planning Department threatened to impose fines; the once-raucous South of Market neighborhood has been gentrified from the gritty bar and club scene that dominated for decades; and annual street parties have been sometimes banned (Halloween) or slapped into sobriety (alcohol forbidden at the Bay to Breakers 12K foot race).
Some residents are pushing back. Phil Boissiere of Cow Hollow recently helped start the Union Street Enrichment Association, a group of merchants and citizens. The association formed to fight efforts to pacify the neighborhood after complaints against a local pub when crowds watching the World Cup soccer tournament at the pub cheered too loudly.
''It's the not-in-my-backyard people,'' Mr. Boissiere said of those who groused. ''They are not open to the bohemian atmosphere that the city was known for.''
For Ike's Place, the problems began when four upstairs neighbors complained. The objections led to stepped-up health department inspections, eviction proceedings by the landlord and a recent decision by the Planning Department that the restaurant now needs a different permit to operate, even though it has been in business since October 2007.
Perhaps sensing that a larger issue is at stake, keeping up with the latest in the Ike's case has captured the public's attention. The drama peaked last month when the shop was evicted one morning because of a legal technicality, then saved a few hours later by a different legal technicality. Frantic bloggers blasted bulletins: ''Only five hours and 28 minutes left for Ike's!'' Followed later by, ''Ike's saved!''
Terry Connelly, Dean of the Ageno School of Business at Golden Gate University, said the city had long had a reputation for doubtful feelings toward new businesses. ''In San Francisco, a business is guilty until proven innocent,'' Mr. Connelly said.
Rob Black, a vice president of the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, said people developed strong bonds with their neighborhoods and wanted to hold onto the version of the city they first fell in love with.
''There are community groups that would like to see the city covered in amber and stored,'' Mr. Black said.
It is a view that does not bode well for any upstart business like Ike's. A newly formed Facebook campaign is trying to persuade Mr. Shehadeh to move from the Castro to the Lower Haight neighborhood, but he believes he would face the same backlash from residents there.
As his company thrives, Mr. Shehadeh doubts he will keep his corporate headquarters in San Francisco. ''We'll probably be moving out of the city,'' he said.
It's just no fun dealing with all the hassles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Customers in line Aug. 24 to order food at Ike's Place in San Francisco. Neighbors have complained about lines and noise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHIU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (84%); DRINKING PLACES (84%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WRITERS (78%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RANKINGS (72%); CITY LIFE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); SPORTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); HALLOWEEN (60%); SOCCER (60%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



281 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Jobless Filings Decline More Than Expected

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The number of people signing up for unemployment benefits dropped to the lowest level in two months last week, an encouraging sign that companies are not resorting to deeper layoffs even as the economy has lost momentum. 
The Labor Department said Thursday that new claims for unemployment insurance declined last week by a seasonally adjusted 27,000, to 451,000. Economists had predicted a much smaller decline of 2,000. The number of new claims filed in the previous week turned out to be flat, versus a small drop as first reported. But that amount was a sharp decrease from the week before.
New applications for jobless benefits shot past the half-million mark in mid-August, the highest level since November. Since that spike, they have drifted lower. New filings for jobless benefits are at their lowest level since July 10.
Meanwhile, the four-week moving average of new claims, which smoothes weekly fluctuations, also fell last week, dropping by 9,250 to 477,750. So did the number of people continuing to draw unemployment aid.
Even with latest decline, new filing for jobless benefits are still much higher than they would be if the economy is healthy. When the economy is growing strongly and companies are hiring, requests for unemployment benefits fall below 400,000.
Last week, the government reported that the unemployment rate ticked up to 9.6 percent in August from 9.5 percent in July. Private employers in August added a net total of only 67,000 jobs in August. Job gains would need to be more than three times that to drive down the unemployment rate.
The unemployment rate has exceeded 9 percent for 16 months and is likely to extend that streak into next year.
Without more jobs, consumers are likely to spend cautiously, which would keep the economy mired in its slow-growth rut.
The economy's growth has slowed sharply from earlier this year as the impact of the government's stimulus package fades.
Companies are wary about stepping up hiring because they are worried about their sales and whether the economy will continue to lose momentum. But in recent weeks, companies have shied away from resorting to even deeper layoffs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



282 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21B

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Niche Bookstores Provide More Than Books

BYLINE: By REYHAN HARMANCI. 
rharmanci@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Tucked in a corner of San Francisco's quiet Noe Valley, Omnivore Books is an unlikely prospect for a small-business success story.
The store, roughly the size of a studio apartment, carries a modest selection of around 2,500 new and antiquarian titles on food-related subjects. Its owner, Celia Sack, 41, had no previous book-selling experience when she opened the store in November 2008, around the time that the global economy imploded.
''I just thought that with starting something in the recession, there's nowhere to go but up,'' said Ms. Sack, sipping coffee at a nearby shop. 
At a time when iPads and Kindles dominate discussions of the future of the written word, Omnivore Books banks on physical books. Culinary superstars like the chef Thomas Keller, along with local food enthusiasts, flock to the store to savor its inventory.
In-store events, which Ms. Sack publicizes through Twitter and other social-media outlets, tend to be packed.
Beginning this month, Ms. Sack's favorite titles will appear in more than 260 Williams Sonoma stores nationwide under the banner of ''Omnivore Recommends,'' and she will select vintage books to be sold at 30 locations.
Ms. Sack is also working on a cookbook scrapbook for the publisher Ten Speed Press, which is scheduled to come out early next year.
Omnivore Books has grown very quickly, but Ms. Sack is not the only local bookseller having success with innovative strategies. By being niche, maintaining a reasonable overhead and pro-actively engaging community, online and off, stores like ''M'' is for Mystery in San Mateo and Borderlands in the Mission district have managed to survive and even thrive in these difficult times.
''Being a specialty store gave us something that would distinguish us,'' said Alan Beatts, owner of Borderlands, which focuses on science fiction. ''We are serving a special demographic, and we receive customer loyalty in return.''
Different specialty stores use different approaches to keep their business booming. ''M'' is for Mystery moved into a bigger space eight years ago and does brisk business both online and in-store, relying on autographed books to increase its bottom line. Borderlands opened a cafe in the store to help buttress the community, and seven months in, it has begun to turn a profit.
Niche stores may be able to target their audiences better than general-interest ones, but innovative approaches can help any bookseller. The Booksmith in San Francisco, a general-interest bookshop with a special depth in countercultural and music fare -- befitting its Haight location -- has made events a cornerstone of its business.
Christin Evans and Praveen Madan, who are married, bought The Booksmith in 2007. Since they took over, the number of events has jumped to more than 200 per year, from around 70.
''The bookstores that are surviving are being really creative,'' Ms. Evans said. ''We come from management consulting, and we walked into this business with our eyes wide open.''
Ms. Sack, who with her partner, Paula Harris, owns a pet store around the corner from Omnivore Books, has a more traditional small-business background. A lifelong food enthusiast, she became intrigued by the idea of mixing cooking-related antiquarian and new titles when she met Don Lindgren, co-owner of Rabelais Books in Portland, Me., in early 2008 at an antiquarian book fair. Mr. Lindgren had found success doing just that.
From the start, Ms. Sack's success depended on cultivating a niche customer base, so she could afford to choose a storefront on a side street with little foot traffic. ''My customers seek me out,'' she said.
Rent at Omnivore Books is a mere $1,300 per month. With such low overhead, Ms. Sack focuses on what most helps her bottom line: vintage books, which can be bought for $15 and sold for $45.
It does not hurt, of course, that her niche is food at a time when culinary and agricultural interest in the Bay Area is at a fever pitch. Some older specialty stores, likeMarcus Books and A Different Light, specializing in African-American and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender literature respectively, have dealt with long-term changes in their customer base. Blanche Richardson, an owner of Marcus Books, said 85 percent of African-American-themed bookstores had closed in the past five years nationwide.
''Demographically, we are seeing many more white people'' at the store's two branches, in Oakland and San Francisco, Ms. Richardson said.
A Different Light has closed its Los Angeles and New York stores; only the one in San Francisco remains, and its future is uncertain. ''As being gay and lesbian became less of an issue, people became more homogenized within society,'' said Bill Barker, the owner. ''The bookstore no longer has that draw.''
At Omnivore Books, Ms. Sack said she knew change was a business constant, and she hopes to keep innovating. For now, things are good -- even the organic eggs from a producer in Tomales Bay sitting next to the cash register are popular.
''They always seem to sell out,'' Ms. Sack said, her voice tinged with wonder.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Friday about innovative strategies by booksellers had an incorrect surname for the owner of Omnivore Books. She is Celia Sack, not Sacks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Stewart Cassidy lectured on single malt Scotch whiskey at a tasting at Omnivore Books.
 Whiskey samples were poured during the tasting and lecture at Omnivore Books. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%)

COMPANY: IN-STORE GAGE MARKETING LLC (56%); WILLIAMS-SONOMA STORES INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (56%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); SIC5023 HOME FURNISHINGS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010



283 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Race for Richmond Mayor Focuses on Jobs, Casino and Class

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH. 
gshih@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Nathaniel Bates, a 78-year-old retired parole officer, has run unsuccessfully for mayor of Richmond three times. He kicked off his fourth campaign one recent afternoon by attacking the policies of the incumbent, the Green Party's Gayle McLaughlin.
''This mayor is for jobs, but only for green jobs,'' Mr. Bates, a Democrat who sits on Richmond's City Council, told supporters. ''Well, my perspective is that I don't care if the job is green, purple, yellow or polka dot. A job is a job.''
Richmond, with a population of 103,468, is the largest city in the country with a Green mayor. But with the city's unemployment rate near 20 percent, Mr. Bates is seen as a formidable candidate to unseat Ms. McLaughlin, whose environmental activism is suddenly viewed as a potential liability during hard economic times.
Mr. Bates's platform -- jobs trump the environment -- is playing out across California's political landscape, even in the Bay Area, a hub for the environmental movement. The November ballot contains Proposition 23, which would freeze the state's landmark global warming law, AB 32, barring a precipitous drop in the unemployment rate. 
Carly Fiorina, the Republican candidate for Senate and a former chief executive of Hewlett Packard, came out in support of Proposition 23 this month, calling AB 32, a ''jobs killer.'' Meg Whitman, the Republican candidate for governor and a former chief executive of eBay, has said that, if elected, she intends to suspend AB 32 for a year.
In Richmond, the debate revolves around a proposal to build a $1 billion, Las Vegas-style casino on San Francisco Bay. The developer, James D. Levine, contends the project will create 17,000 jobs. The casino's future rests on another November ballot measure before Richmond voters, and although the ballot measure is only advisory, its passage would greenlight the project.
Ms. McLaughlin strenuously opposes the casino, which would be built on a promontory known as Point Molate. ''We most definitely need jobs and a good healthy development at Point Molate,'' she said in a telephone interview, ''but a casino will not bring that. The evidence is overwhelming that casinos create more problems: crime, prostitution, theft, drug sales. We need the kind of development that will bring about a legacy for Richmond that we can be proud of.''
Mr. Bates said in response that Richmond, which has the 12th-highest homicide rate in the state, already has those problems in abundance.
Mr. Bates, who is black and was first elected to the City Council in 1968, has tied his candidacy to the casino. He described the project as a class issue.
''A lot of the people who don't want this and don't want that, they're already secure in life,'' he said. ''They're not concerned about jobs.
''We are the playground for the elitist people from the Berkeley Hills, from the Oakland Hills, from San Francisco. We want all these beautiful amenities that go with the elitist groups. But if I'm unemployed, I don't have a job, I don't have a way of even buying a McDonald's burger, then what the hell kind of life do I have?''
Regardless of its outcome, the casino debate has laid bare some awkward truths about Richmond. In 2008, the median income for white households here ($61,000) was roughly 50 percent higher than for blacks ($42,000). The city is essentially divided between outlying neighborhoods like Richmond Annex and Point Richmond -- home to a mostly white population, including many recent transplants seeking relief from the Bay Area's dizzying real estate prices -- and blacks and Hispanics spread across a gritty urban grid where most of the crime occurs.
Ms. McLaughlin, who is a white former schoolteacher and a native of Chicago, won a three-way race in 2006 by 242 votes against two black candidates: Irma Anderson, the incumbent mayor, and Gary Bell, a banker.
Ms. McLaughlin opposed a 2008 deal to import Japanese cars through the Port of Richmond, arguing that the increased traffic would pollute the bay. She also opposes a plan to retrofit the Point Richmond Chevron refinery to process heavy crude oil, arguing that it would damage the environment.
She has repeatedly clashed with Chevron, the city's largest employer, and spearheaded a campaign to extract more taxes out of it. In May, Ms. McLaughlin won a major victory when Chevron agreed to pay an additional $114 million to the city over the next 15 years. (Chevron has remained neutral on Proposition 23, which has received significant financing from out-of-state oil companies.)
At the same time, Ms. McLaughlin has transformed Richmond into the Bay Area's unlikely leader in solar power production, home to prominent start-ups like SunPrint and SunPower. Her efforts have drawn both praise and criticism -- detractors have dubbed her Mayor Moonbeam, playing off the nickname once given to former Gov. Jerry Brown.
''We can't solve old problems with old solutions. We can't rely on these quick fixes,'' Ms. McLaughlin said about her opponents' vision for job growth. ''Now we're poised to take advantage of the only growing sector in our economy. I have a new model for business.''
Ms. McLaughlin and groups like Citizens for a Sustainable Point Molate are skeptical that the casino will produce thousands of jobs. They prefer a convention center for the site or a network of waterfront parks.
Mr. Bates said the most important consideration was that a casino would bring in new jobs -- any new jobs -- and generate approximately $20 million a year in taxes.
Mr. Bates's supporters point out that neither Ms. McLaughlin nor her staunchest ally on the Council, Jeff Ritterman, the chief of cardiology at Kaiser Richmond hospital, is a longtime resident of Richmond. In contrast, Mr. Bates came to Richmond with his mother in the 1940s when she worked as a coach cleaner on the Santa Fe Railroad.
In addition to Ms. McLaughlin and Mr. Bates, John Ziesenhenne -- a former councilman and past president of the Richmond Chamber of Commerce -- is running for mayor. Mr. Ziesenhenne is basing his campaign on job growth, too, but in an interview, he said he would not specify his position on the casino until after the election.
Several black political action committees are throwing their weight behind Mr. Bates. He also has the support of the local police, firefighter and trade unions. While the Chamber of Commerce endorsed Mr. Ziesenhenne last week, Mr. Bates has the support of many individual businesses.
Chevron is also rumored to back Mr. Bates, although the company has not given to any campaigns yet, according to the latest campaign filings. A company spokesman said Chevron would ''put our support behind a candidate who supports Richmond's jobs.''
Jason McDaniel, an assistant professor of political science at San Francisco State, said Mr. Bates's strong base among blacks and his longtime ties to labor might enable him to defeat Ms. McLaughlin. The mayor's Green Party status makes her more vulnerable, he said.
''If the mayor was a Democrat, I would expect her to be more formidable,'' he said. ''I see her as being ripe to be defeated.''
Compared to Ms. McLaughlin, Mr. Bates is a social conservative who grouses publicly about the mayor's refusal to cooperate with federal immigration authorities and the gay and lesbian street parades she has organized.
Mr. Bates, a former high school football star who looks younger than his 78 years, said he believed he often clashed with Ms. McLaughlin and other female officials because ''a lot of them have never been participants in athletic programs.''
He represents, perhaps, a throwback-style of politics that was on display during a recent drive through downtown to distribute campaign materials.
''The police are friendly with me. Who are they going to ticket?'' Mr. Bates said as he drove briefly down the wrong direction of a one-way street. He parked his white pickup truck in front of a fire hydrant as he walked inside C.J.'s Barbeque & Fish shop to put up a campaign poster.
As he chatted in familiar tones with Charles Evans, the shop's long-time owner, Mr. Bates spoke of his disapproval of the mayor's emphasis on the environment.
''You can save this planet,'' Mr. Bates said. ''But hell, if people don't have any work and jobs to sustain themselves, then what are you doing?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An aerial rendering of the proposed casino at Point Molate in Richmond that an Indian tribe and a developer want to build. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES D. LEVINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MAYORS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CITIES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); BALLOTS (89%); REFERENDUMS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PAROLE (78%); US GREEN PARTY (77%); POLITICS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); GOVERNORS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); HOMICIDE (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



284 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Tackling the Economy, and the Politics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Debating the Economy'' (editorial, Sept. 9):
President Obama's speech in Ohio on Wednesday was brilliant both in its timing and in its content. As to timing, there has been much complaining among the Democrats about why he has not become more involved in the coming elections. If he had become involved earlier, it would have been watered down. By waiting until just two months before the election, he can now make his arguments when it really matters.
As to content, he has put a human face on the Republican Party. His references to John A. Boehner, the House Republican leader, and Mr. Boehner's negativity have served to emphasize that the Republican Party really is the Party of No. Mr. Boehner has yet to come up with any meaningful solution to the problems facing our nation. The Democrats running in the coming elections can now join with Mr. Obama and emphasize the positive steps to be taken to bring this nation back to life. 
Richard S. Wolfeld Jericho, N.Y., Sept. 9, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''In Obama Economic Stance, Risk of Confusion,'' by Matt Bai (Political Times column, front page, Sept. 9):
Contrary to Mr. Bai's suggestion, there is no ''crucial difference'' between creating jobs today and investing in our schools, highways, bridges, railways, electricity grid, water supply systems, Internet access and other infrastructure projects that will make Americans more productive and America more competitive in the future.
The people who are without jobs today should be given the opportunity to go to work now on projects that will build a better America for all the tomorrows to come.
Anthony C. Gooch Brooklyn, Sept. 9, 2010
To the Editor:
In ''How to End the Great Recession'' (Op-Ed, Sept. 3), Robert B. Reich argues that for the economy to recover, consumers must be ''able, at some point, to keep the economy moving on their own.''
He peels the onion to the next-to-last layer when he says this will require getting people back to work. But the last layer is what that employment will be.
Consumer spending will be part of the recovery, but there must be more. We must make something we can sell to someone other than ourselves. A solely consumer economy is a perpetual motion machine.
It is probably beyond the capacity of the government to manage that last layer. But until we figure out what will support the increased employment, we will have to get used to a lower standard of living.
Joseph L. Tierney Arnold, Md., Sept. 3, 2010
To the Editor:
Robert B. Reich learned the wrong lesson from the Great Depression. The key to a sustainable economic recovery is not redistribution of wealth through taxation (a polarizing concept repugnant to believers in the American dream). It is the creation of high-value jobs.
We need a New New Deal that gets Americans back to work by repairing our crumbling infrastructure and creating a favorable climate for industrial growth.
The multiplier effect of productive employment increases the efficiency, output and competitiveness of businesses and would create a virtuous cycle of economic and wage growth.
The suggestion that punitive tax rates on the wealthy be used to subsidize the wages of others is a formula for mediocrity, not greatness.
Jay S. Markowitz Pacific Palisades, Calif., Sept. 3, 2010
To the Editor:
Our president, politicians and media must stop perpetuating the myth that almost all Americans are middle class.
As Robert B. Reich says, a majority of mothers of young children now work outside the home, yet families are falling ever further behind. He's identified a rapidly expanding class: the new working class, families bombarded with propaganda telling them to spend (and borrow) like the middle class even when both adults must work to try to keep above water.
Members of the new working class may already outnumber those in the middle class, so why don't our leaders address them? If we can't even get our demographic labels right, how can we fix what ails America?
Michael Northmore Staten Island, Sept. 7, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''One Nation, Two Deficits'' (column, Sept. 7), in which Peter Orszag calls for extending the Bush tax cuts for two years and then ending them:
I believe that we should let the tax cuts expire, without any extensions. The fiscal experiment, which the tax reductions of the last 10 years represent, has been an unmitigated failure. It has left the nation deeply in debt, and with no reserves for dealing with the unexpected (like a war in Asia).
The wealthy minority that benefited most from the rate reductions did not need the money and did not invest much of it in anything productive. The wealthy gambled with it, investing in Ponzi schemes and speculating in housing, to the detriment of the rest of the public.
Moreover, the idea that paying taxes is like throwing money into a black hole is wrong. If I take home a $100 paycheck and pay $10 for food, $25 for rent and $20 in taxes, that $20 is not lost. I am buying government services. I am paying for Grandma's doctor visit, the salary of the bailiff at the courthouse and other tangible goods.
Economists may say that the multiplier effect of a dollar spent by me in my community is slightly higher than that of a dollar spent by the government, but let's not pretend that I am getting nothing for the money.
Extending a failed fiscal experiment for a couple more years in the hope that something good may still come of it, despite a decade of evidence to the contrary, is nonsense.
Thomas J. Menacher Maumee, Ohio, Sept. 7, 2010
To the Editor:
Extending all the tax cuts for two years sounds good. In fact, it sounds downright great. And if there were a way to guarantee that they would end entirely in 2013, I'd be behind Peter Orszag's proposal 100 percent.
But we're talking about Congress, and it is myopic to think that the political climate will be any different in two years.
Indeed, we'll be right where we are now, in the middle of a campaign season.
Casey Kaplan Dallas, Sept. 7, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JIM FRAZIER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



285 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: A Union Challenges China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A broad trade case filed on Thursday by an American labor union, accusing China of unfairly subsidizing its clean energy industry, pressed a hot-button jobs issue in the United States during a Congressional election season.
But even if the Obama administration agrees to pursue the case, it could prove hard to resolve, as both countries consider their industries crucial to energy security and future economic growth.
The filing, by the 850,000-member United Steelworkers union, accuses China of violating the World Trade Organization's free-trade rules by subsidizing exports of clean energy equipment like solar panels and wind turbines. Through its policies, fair or otherwise, China has helped turn its makers of that equipment into the global leaders, while manufacturers in the United States and Europe have struggled financially, cut jobs and in some cases moved operations to China.
President Obama has cited clean energy manufacture as a priority on economic and environmental grounds, and in a speech this week, he called for ''a homegrown clean energy industry.'' 
Mr. Obama has shown a willingness to confront China before, imposing steep tariffs a year ago on Chinese tire imports -- a decision that China is itself challenging before a W.T.O. panel in Geneva, which is expected to give an initial ruling this month.
Whether or not the administration wants to risk escalating trade tensions with China right now, the timing of the union's petition has thrust the issue into the Congressional election season. The union filed under a law that requires the Obama administration to make a decision on whether to pursue the case within 45 days, which would be Oct. 24 -- a week and a half before the elections.
''Once we file the case, we're going to take it to the rest of the public,'' Leo W. Gerard, president of the union, said before formally submitting the case. ''We're going to mobilize around this.''
If the administration does take up the case, the first step would be to ask China for bilateral consultations, which in a few months might lead to the formation of a W.T.O. dispute resolution panel in Geneva, unless either side backed down first.
A succession of mostly Democratic members of the House and Senate issued statements through the day on Thursday, endorsing the steelworkers' case. That support, together with public anxiety about unemployment and the rise of China, could make it hard for the administration to refuse the union's request.
Nefeterius A. McPherson, a spokeswoman for the Office of the United States Trade Representative, said that the office had accepted the union's petition and would reach a decision on whether to open an investigation of Chinese trade practices within the designated 45 days, even though the administration has the option of extending that deadline.
The filing of the trade case comes as trade and currency frictions with China are mounting. On Friday morning in Beijing (late Thursday night in New York), China announced that it ran another large trade surplus in August of $20.03 billion.
The Chinese mission to the W.T.O. in Geneva declined to comment on the steelworkers' filing on Thursday, on the grounds that no case had been filed yet at the W.T.O. and that any initial consultations between the United States and China would be bilateral.
Wang Baodong, a spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington, urged cooperation instead of confrontation: ''Great potential exists between China and the U.S. in developing clean energy. And both the Chinese and the U.S. governments support their enterprises in collaborating in this promising sector, with the aim of creating a win-win situation commercially and helping combat the climate change effect.''
The issues go beyond jobs and exports, having real implications for efforts to curb global warming. Increasing China's use of renewable energy for its own electricity needs would help slow the rise in China's emissions of greenhouse gases. China passed the United States in total emissions in 2006, although emissions per person remain three times as high in the United States as in China.
Chinese energy policy makers have said in the past that developing a strong energy industry is a national priority that contributes to Chinese energy security. They say that China is helping to address global warming by rapidly increasing its output of renewable energy equipment and that the rest of the world should appreciate its heavy investment in clean energy, which has steeply pushed down the price of solar and wind energy in the past three years.
Many trade experts, though, say that China has made itself vulnerable to a W.T.O. case because much of its support for clean energy, often in the form of cheap land grants and low-cost loans from state-run banks, has benefited its export industries, rather than focusing on the domestic adoption of solar power and wind energy.
Trade lawyers in Washington have been saying for months that China's export subsidies for clean energy were so extensive that sooner or later, they expected someone to file a trade case. But multinational companies and trade associations in the clean energy business, as in many other industries, have been wary of filing such cases, fearing Chinese officials' reputation for retaliating against joint ventures in their country and potentially denying market access to any company that takes sides against China.
Besides Mr. Obama's imposition of tariffs on Chinese tires, the Commerce Department has separately granted dozens of requests to impose tariffs on narrow categories of imports from China, like steel wire strands for prestressed concrete, after finding evidence that they have been subsidized or dumped in the American market.
But special tariffs and other import restrictions still cover less than 3 percent of American imports from China. Unions and many Congressional Democrats have contended that the administration should be more assertive in forcing China to honor previous free trade commitments. But the United States government has long depended on companies to gather commercial information for trade cases, and companies have been hesitant to do so.
China could greatly weaken the case against it, or even settle the matter entirely, by shifting more of its subsidies toward encouraging Chinese consumers to use clean energy, said Alan W. Wolff, a former deputy United States trade representative who has been one of Washington's best-known trade litigators since the 1980s.
Government subsidies primarily for domestic manufacture and consumption are less likely to violate international trade rules.
''It is time for China to vastly increase its share of world consumption of solar and wind equipment,'' Mr. Wolff said. ''It needs to do so for its own environmental objectives and for peaceful trade relations with the other leading economies.''
In the 1980s, many big American companies like Kodak and industrial groups like the semiconductor industry were willing to give legal backing and financial support for trade cases against Japan, when it was still an ascending industrial power. But these days, when facing China, multinationals have been reluctant to file similar cases.
The difference is that China, unlike Japan in the '80s, has encouraged the opening of many foreign-owned factories, making multinationals loath to file trade cases that could alienate Chinese officials and make it harder to do business there.
Section 301, the trade law provision being used by the steelworkers' union, gives legal standing to unions as well as corporations to file trade cases. The law provided the legal basis for threats of unilateral American trade restrictions in many confrontations with Japan and South Korea through the '80s and early 1990s.
Currently, the steelworkers' union is one of the few with the legal resources to challenge China. And it has nothing to fear but the further loss of jobs in the United States.
The United Steelworkers union represents employees in a wide range of energy-related jobs, including manufacturers who make the steel for wind turbine towers and nuclear reactors and glassworkers who make solar panels and various kinds of incandescent and halogen light bulbs. The union also represents workers involved in the assembly of wind turbine towers and those who make gears, valves, engines and other components of clean energy equipment. All of those job categories have faced increased competition from China and other countries in recent years.
Stewart & Stewart, a Washington law firm known for filing antidumping cases at the Commerce Department, prepared the legal brief for the union. The union's trade strategist for the case is Michael R. Wessel, best known as the trade adviser for many years to former House Democratic leader Richard A. Gephardt, who ran for president in 1988 on a platform calling for a more assertive American trade strategy.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Friday with an article about the United Steelworkers' complaint that China is illegally subsidizing its clean energy industry misstated the location of the headquarters for the Tang Energy Group. While the turbine blades pictured were manufactured in China, Tang Energy is based in Dallas, not China.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A blade for a wind turbine manufactured by Tang Energy Group of China was unloaded in California in May for delivery to the Army in Utah. (B1)
A turbine tower section, left, and blades for a wind turbine manufactured in China being delivered to the United States in May. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM RUE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Solar panels assembled this week at Evergreen Solar's manufacturing plant in Devens, Mass. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PETITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); WIND POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



286 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Higher Returns, Greater Risk

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a certified financial planner and the founder of Prasada Capital.
For the first time in 10 years, according to a recent report by Market Rates Insight, we're seeing the average interest rate drop below 1 percent on checking, savings and other deposit accounts. You're intimately aware of this fact if you're trying to generate income or live off the interest from your savings or money market account. The issue applies to the short-term bond market, too. 
If this interest represents your fixed income, you're facing a reality of living on less and less each month. If you're searching for short-term income investments, you're probably feeling a growing sense of frustration, wondering whether your money may be better off under the mattress.
Without question, this situation is a serious problem. But you need to be aware of potential issues before you start chasing higher returns.
During your search for other options, you need to understand that if someone offers you a ''safe'' bond investment but promises higher yields or interest, you will be increasing your risk. In general, if you want to earn a higher yield, you are almost always going to take some sort of additional risk to do it.
There are really only two ways to get a higher yield, and both of them come with increased risk:
1. Go down in credit quality. In other words, you buy investments from lower-quality issuers. A bond is really just you lending money to someone else in exchange for an agreed-upon interest rate. If I lend to the shady neighbor to start a pawnshop, I will absolutely expect to get a higher interest rate than if I lend to the United States government. After all, there is clearly a greater chance that Mr. Pawnshop will not pay me back.
2. Tie your money up long term. Right now, things look bleak, with interest rates below 1 percent. So the investment that's offering you 2 percent may look really appealing. So appealing, in fact, that you ignore that it ties up your cash for five years. This means that if rates perk back up a year or two from now, you're locked in at 2 percent even if there are other options at that point that would offer a greater yield on a bond.
These decisions aren't easy ones to make, and I understand how tempting it may be to take the leap to greater risk. But you could end up with much more serious issues if you fail to weigh the true costs of chasing after yield.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



287 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: How to Cheat a Retirement Fund

BYLINE: By ORIN S. KRAMER. 
Orin S. Kramer, the manager of a hedge fund, is the chairman of the New Jersey Investment Council, which oversees the state's public pension system.

 BODY:
A FEW weeks ago, at the insistence of the Securities and Exchange Commission, New Jersey agreed never again to fraudulently hide its underfunding of the state's public pension system. Meanwhile, in Albany, Harry Wilson, the Republican candidate for state comptroller, has asserted that -- if you do the math the way any ordinary financial analyst or economist would -- New York's pension system is underfunded by tens of billions of dollars and that, as a result, the state is essentially insolvent.
These little tempests are likely to soon recur in many other states and cities nationwide, because so many governments have invested far too little money in their public pension funds. Retirement promises made to public employees represent a huge hidden liability for future taxpayers -- helping ensure recurrent deficit crises for state and local governments. 
The S.E.C. is now making inquiries about the underfunding of other public pensions, and its assertiveness is welcome. But this effort cannot ultimately fix the problem, because all the S.E.C. can do is force states to follow the budgeting rules that are set by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board. These rules offer, at best, only the illusion of transparency, because they allow governments to base their budgets on economic fictions.
Consider, for the sake of comparison, how private corporations, in measuring the value of the assets in their pension systems, are required to use real portfolio market prices. Government accounting standards, in contrast, allow public pension systems to measure their assets based on average values looking back over a period of years. In most instances those average values add up to a figure that is much higher than the amount of money the pension plan actually has.
Public pension funds are also allowed to make assumptions about future investment returns that many of us would regard as overly optimistic. And since those assumed returns are incorporated into measurements of the fund's status, as if they had already been realized, states that come up with the most rosy market forecasts look, on paper, to be better financed.
This government accounting mirage adds up to an enormous national problem. If you use the most recent data from government accounting standards, the collective shortfall for state and local governments nationwide appears to be about $1 trillion. If you use corporate accounting standards to estimate the value of those public pensions, however, you come up with a shortfall two and a half times as large -- about $2.5 trillion. Employing a third approach that assumes, as economists generally do, that even corporate accounting standards in this area are too lenient, public pension underfunding is about $3.5 trillion, or one-quarter of gross domestic product.
To make matters worse for state budgets, hidden underfunding of public employees' health retirement costs is even greater than that of their pensions.
Ideally, managers of public pension funds would not only work with realistic budgets but also recognize that they have intergenerational obligations -- to optimize returns over decades so that the fund can responsibly pay retiree pensions long into the future. There's a rising understanding among thoughtful pension fund leaders, for example, that sustainable investment performance must permit consideration of the environmental, human rights and other public-interest effects of investments. In practice, however, pension fund managers tend to focus on narrow economic criteria and short-term performance.
Ultimately, to respond to their fiscal imbalances, many state and local policymakers will need to make painful cuts in financing for state universities, hospitals, local schools and municipalities. Increasingly, they will make controversial decisions to privatize roads, parking meters and other public services.
When a government allows its fiscal problems to become too great -- as New York City's did in the 1970s -- it reaches a point where it can no longer borrow money. Municipal bondholders may comfort themselves that the federal government would never allow a state to default. But the federal government should not be expected to provide special aid to states that do not address structural budget deficits. New York's crisis allowed it to conduct some unprecedented budget-cutting -- but the price of austerity is greatest if you wait for crisis to strike.
Accounting is inevitably an artificial language that can distort some economic truths. But at the least, government accounting should aim for greater transparency and consistency, allowing outsiders to compare one jurisdiction against another. At the same time, the social contracts that exist today in many places among taxpayers, beneficiaries of public services and public employees need to be renegotiated before a crisis arrives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



288 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: 9/11/10: Reflection and Contention

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Nine years ago, on 9/11, none of us in New York City had a harsh look or word for one another. Our hearts were too heavy to waste time on pettiness. Our gigantic city felt strangely gentle as it burned and we mourned the death of loved ones.
We were stunned into kindness. We seemed suddenly to understand what was important in our lives.
The news media need to respect that and not overdo coverage of the trivial, like Terry Jones, on this 9/11. 
Mary Dixon Jersey City, Sept. 10, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''A Fringe Pastor, a Fiery Stunt and the Media Spotlight's Glare'' (front page, Sept. 10):
The concept of free speech has always worked in this country because the vast majority of Americans have known how to tolerate the ravings of various types of extremists and kooks without heeding their message of hate -- and because the rest of the world has long understood that those voices of anger and prejudice were the aberration in a land where decency and mutual respect are the rule.
It seems to me that the news media bear a huge responsibility for maintaining the delicate balance between free speech and the many other freedoms our Constitution promises. If we allow those lone voices to dominate the national conversation for the sake of attracting readers or viewers to a juicy controversy, the true picture of American tolerance and decency will be distorted, and we will all be the losers.
We are taught as schoolchildren that one person's freedoms end where another's begin. It's a pity not all of us can manage to carry that lesson into adulthood.
Louise T. Guinther Forest Hills, Queens, Sept. 10, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''The Healers of 9/11'' (column, Sept. 9):
In a national climate weathered by ill will, Nicholas D. Kristof's sensitive portrayal of 9/11 widows reacting by reaching out to Afghan widows is a bracing breeze of goodness. That these women expressed compassion, not retaliation, of a practical economically empowering sort is as remarkable as its success.
This column should be tweaked into a ''Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus'' for cynical adults, who deserve the chance to dwell on its message.
Bill Puka Lexington, Mass., Sept. 10, 2010
To the Editor:
As I read Nicholas D. Kristof's tribute to the efforts of Susan Retik, Patti Quigley and so many others who have transformed horror into hope for the last nine years, I contrasted their actions with those of Terry Jones and his followers who had designated Sept. 11, 2010, as International Burn a Koran Day.
As schools open throughout the metropolitan area, we teachers and school leaders have a marvelous opportunity to invite our students to examine the potential effects of these two responses to the same terrible historical moment.
Whose actions will enable our fractured world to envision a more peaceful future? Whose motives move beyond the spotlight of international media coverage toward a clearer understanding of the complexities of the world we all inhabit?
Peter Schmidt Gladstone, N.J., Sept. 10, 2010
The writer is director of studies at Gill St. Bernard's School.
To the Editor:
The campaign by a 9/11 widow, Susan Retik, to recruit members of a mosque in Boston to join her battle against poverty and illiteracy in Afghanistan is commendable and inspiring.
But her attempt to reach out to Muslims should not be used in an attempt to criticize or embarrass those who oppose the Islamic mosque/cultural center planned near ground zero. While the owners of the building at this site have the legal right to build the Islamic center there, anyone has a perfect right to oppose a Muslim center so close to the place where almost 3,000 lost their lives from the jihadists' attack.
People who oppose the mosque/cultural center should not be ''scolded'' by others, including Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, for expressing their honest and legal opposition. ''I'm compassionate and right, and you're a biased Islamophobe'' is not a fair and reasonable position to take on this issue.
Michael J. Gorman Whitestone, Queens, Sept. 9, 2010
The writer is a retired New York Police Department lieutenant who lost friends and co-workers on 9/11.
To the Editor:
Re ''Building on Faith'' (Op-Ed, Sept. 8):
How cool that the downtown community center will be named Cordoba House, after the city in Spain where, as Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf writes, ''Muslims, Christians and Jews co-existed in the Middle Ages during a period of great cultural enrichment created by Muslims.''
One can only hope that the vitriol surrounding this issue hasn't ruined any chance, centuries down the road, of a similarly inspired New York House.
Jeremy D. Nathaniel Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., Sept. 9, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''9 Years After 9/11, a Nationwide Safety Communications Network Is Unrealized'' (news article, Sept. 6):
We commend your article about the lack of interoperable communications devices for first responders, especially shocking as we near the ninth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. According to the 9/11 Commission, such a system could have saved the lives of many in the World Trade Center towers.
The situation must be remedied. That's why we introduced the Next Generation Public Safety Device Act of 2010. The bill will create a $70 million competitive grant program to build within five years a new, affordable and interoperable class of communications devices for our police, firefighters and paramedics.
The first responders' market is just too small to attract the attention of technology innovators. The free market needs a nudge. Our device bill does just that.
We owe our first responders equipment that not only helps them protect and serve, but can also save their lives as well.
Jane Harman Mark Warner Washington, Sept. 8, 2010
The writers are, respectively, a California Democrat in the House and a Virginia Democrat in the Senate.
To the Editor:
Re ''Up From Zero'' (news article, Sept. 5):
Lower Manhattan is a global model of a robust, round-the-clock, 21st-century business district of 300,000 workers, 55,000 residents and six million yearly visitors who live, work and play in one sustainable square mile with the region's best transportation connections.
Lower Manhattan is alive not only after work but also on nights and weekends. The residential population has more than doubled since 2001. The number of hotels has tripled. Nearly 300 businesses have relocated downtown just since 2008. And while Wall Street remains one of the world's premier financial services addresses, Lower Manhattan is now a hub for creative services.
As the World Trade Center starts to reach its full potential, we look forward to a future that is even more exciting.
Elizabeth H. Berger Robert R. Douglass New York, Sept. 6, 2010
The writers are, respectively, president and chairman, Alliance for Downtown New York.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (88%); CITIES (73%); CHILDREN (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



289 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: China Trade Surplus Narrows as Imports Jump

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A surprisingly large increase in imports caused China's trade surplus to narrow in August, data released Friday showed.
But at $20 billion, the surplus remains a huge bone of contention in relations with the United States, which has long argued that the renminbi's value has been kept low, giving Chinese companies a competitive advantage over American manufacturers. 
The trade statistics showed the pace of Chinese export growth moderating from the previous month -- though a rise of 34.4 percent from a year earlier was robust and in line with analysts' expectations.
But economists were surprised by the size of the growth in China's imports -- up 35.2 percent from August 2009. That appeared to signal that domestic demand had rebounded despite Beijing's efforts in recent months to rein in the pace of Chinese economic growth and to slow the inflationary pressures that had built up as a result.
China's government is scheduled to release additional economic data, including the latest inflation figures, on Saturday.
In the Friday data, the combination of somewhat slower export growth and strong imports caused the Chinese trade surplus to shrink much more than expected. At $20 billion, the August surplus was well below the $28.7 billion recorded in July.
But looking at the national breakdown, economists noted that China's trade surplus with the United States was still the second-largest at $18.1 billion, though down by $1.3 billion. Analysts said the slight narrowing of that trade gap was unlikely to stop American policy makers from calling on China to let the renminbi rise against the dollar. On the other hand, the softer pace of export growth might stiffen the resolve of Beijing to resist pressures for a stronger renminbi.
In June, China said it would allow more flexibility in the renminbi's exchange rate with the dollar, but the rise in the renminbi so far has been minimal -- to 6.77 renminbi to the dollar Friday from about 6.83 renminbi in June.
''As political frictions ramp up ahead of the U.S. midterm election, expect every nuanced movement in China's deficit to be used by both Beijing and Washington to further their stance on the reminibi,'' economists at HSBC wrote in a note.
The picture is further clouded by uncertainties over how the global economy -- and Chinese exporting prowess and import demand -- will develop in coming months.
Some economists say the rise in imports shows that the authorities are easing off the brake pedal. Analysts at Goldman Sachs wrote in a note, ''We have been highlighting over the past month that there has been a stealth loosening of policy since July, which probably started to show its impact on economic data in August.''
Others, however, cautioned that import growth would moderate again in coming months, bringing a renewed widening of the trade surplus.
''We expect both export and import growth to return to a downward trend,'' two economists at Citibank, Ken Peng and Minggao Shen, said in a note Friday. ''Imports cannot far outpace exports sustainably, especially when domestic policies remain on a tightening tilt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shipping containers at the Longtan port in China. Domestic demand seems to have rebounded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN YONG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ELECTIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (63%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



290 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 733 words

PERSON: Juan Mari Bras 

HEADLINE: Juan Mari Bras, 82, Voice for Separate Puerto Rico, Dies

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Juan Mari Bras, a leading advocate for Puerto Rican independence who took his fight to Congress and the United Nations, died Friday at his home in Rio Piedras, a suburb of San Juan. He was 82.
The cause was lung cancer, his daughter Rosa Pesquera said.
''I spent my whole life traveling the world with a U.S. passport to preach independence for Puerto Rico,'' Mr. Mari Bras said in 1995, two years after he had renounced his American citizenship. ''I haven't been able to get it for everyone, but at least I got it for me.'' 
In newspaper articles, books and protest marches, Mr. Mari Bras called for an end to what he considered the economic and cultural colonization of his homeland.
''For more than 60 years he devoted his life, with extraordinary sacrifice, to the cause of independence, as a political leader, a writer and a self-appointed diplomat,'' said Fernando Martin, president of the Puerto Rican Independence Party. ''He was crucial in raising the profile of the colonial case before the United Nations.''
There was great personal cost. In 1973, the office of his political party's newspaper was firebombed. Five years later, his home was firebombed. And on March 24, 1976, his son Santiago was shot to death on a rural road, an act that raised suspicions throughout the island that anti-independence forces and perhaps the federal government were behind the killing. The suspect in the killing was found to be mentally incompetent.
Puerto Rico, whose four million residents are American citizens but cannot vote for president, was ceded to the United States by Spain in 1898 after the Spanish-American War.
''I warn you, in the name of thousands of patriots struggling for independence in my country,'' Mr. Mari Bras said during 1963 Congressional hearings on Puerto Rico's political status, ''that the attempt to secure on a permanent basis the chains of our colonial subjugation will only produce such friction and struggle that the situation could very well degenerate into an American Algeria,'' a reference to the Algerian civil war against France.
But Mr. Mari Bras's campaign did not quite resonate with the island's population. In 1993, in a nonbinding referendum, 48 percent of the voters supported maintaining commonwealth status, 46 percent supported statehood and 4 percent voted for independence.
Born on Dec. 2, 1927, in the city of Mayaguez, Mr. Mari Bras was the only child of Santiago and Mercedes Bras. Young Juan's political yearnings were deep-seated; his parents were ''independentistas.''
In 1944, while in high school, he founded Puerto Rican Youth for Independence. He was expelled from the University of Puerto Rico in 1948 for protesting the university's refusal to allow a Nationalist Party politician to speak on campus.
Mr. Mari Bras went to the continental United States, where, after completing his bachelor's degree at a college in Florida, he earned his law degree at American University in 1954. After returning to Puerto Rico, he helped found the Movimiento pro Independencia de Puerto Rico.
By 1971, that party had evolved into the Socialist Party of Puerto Rico, subscribing to Communist philosophy and committed to independence. In 1976, the year his son was killed, Mr. Mari Bras was the party's candidate for governor. He was secretary general of the Socialist Party until 1983.
Mr. Mari Bras married four times. Besides his daughter Rosa, he is survived by his wife, Marta; three other daughters, Mariana, Teresa and Mari; a son, Juan; nine grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
He, his son Juan and a grandson were among the more than 2,000 people arrested during demonstrations in 2002 calling for the United States Navy to stop using the island of Vieques for military training, including ship-to-shore shelling. In 2003, the Navy withdrew from Vieques.
In 1994, after Mr. Mari Bras renounced his American citizenship and said he was affirming Puerto Rican citizenship, his action prompted many other ''independentistas'' to do the same.
As the result of his case, the island government issued its first certificate of Puerto Rican citizenship to Mr. Mari Bras. The document is valid as an ID in Puerto Rico, but not recognized outside the island.
''I freed myself from the indignity of a false citizenship,'' Mr. Mari Bras said, ''that of the country that invaded mine, which continues to keep the only country that I owe allegiance to as a colony.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Juan Mari Bras sought independence for the commonwealth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOLIVAR ARELLANO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CITIZENSHIP (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); WRITERS (69%); HOMICIDE (65%); REFERENDUMS (63%); CANCER (57%); LUNG CANCER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

MURRAY D MARTIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (71%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.), Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



291 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2460 words

HEADLINE: Long Dormant, German Pride Blinks and Stirs

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Victor Homola and Stefan Pauly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- As a youth in the 1950s, the film director Volker Schlondorff tried to hide his German origins by learning to speak unaccented French. This summer, his daughter painted German flags on her cheeks and joined crowds of thousands on the Kurfurstendamm, a historic avenue, waving their black, red and gold banners to celebrate the country's World Cup victories.
Elena Schlondorff confessed that she never watched her father's Academy Award-winning adaptation of ''The Tin Drum,'' Gunter Grass's World War II epic, until a new director's cut was released earlier this year. She had little interest in the Nazi era. ''I don't really feel touched by it,'' said Ms. Schlondorff, 18, with a teenage shrug. ''In our generation, we've gotten past it.''
Twenty years after reunification, Germany has come to terms with itself in a way that the postwar generation proclaimed would never be possible and Ms. Schlondorff's post-Berlin Wall generation finds completely natural. 
The shift is evident on the airwaves, where German songs are staging a comeback against the dominance of American pop, and in best sellers about Goethe and Schiller or in discovering Germany by foot, by car and by train from the Bavarian Alps to the old Hanseatic ports on the Baltic Sea.
In Parliament, politicians have debated ending conscription, threatening the post-Nazi ideal of an army of ordinary citizens, as German soldiers fight in Afghanistan. Despite fears of rising income inequality, Germany's economic engine is humming and unemployment has fallen significantly in the former East Germany.
And Chancellor Angela Merkel has led a bloc of countries fending off President Obama's calls for stimulus spending to combat the economic crisis, certain that the world should follow Germany's example of austerity.
German pride did not die after the country's defeat in World War II. Instead, like Sleeping Beauty in the Brothers Grimm version of the folk tale, it only fell into a deep slumber. The country has now awakened, ready to celebrate its economic ingenuity, its cultural treasures and the unsullied stretches of its history.
As Germany embarks on this journey of self-discovery, the question is whether it will leave behind a European project which was built in no small measure on the nation's postwar guilt and on its pocketbook.
''Maybe it's our time again,'' said Catherine Mendle, 25, a school social worker strolling the grounds and halls of the square glass and concrete Chancellery building on a recent afternoon as part of a government open house. A military band played in the background, and Mrs. Merkel signed autographs for curious visitors.
''We have this extreme helper syndrome, to try to make the world love us again, and it's completely overdone,'' Ms. Mendle said. Germany, she said, had been reduced to simple stereotypes -- Oktoberfest, auto factories, the Holocaust. Its rich traditions in music and literature, and its enduring emphasis on social welfare and a strong commitment to the environment, deserve more respect abroad and at home, Ms. Mendle said.
When Mr. Grass's latest book came out in August, it was not the sort of recapitulation of Nazi crimes that made the Nobel Prize-winning writer world famous, but a ''declaration of love,'' as the subtitle states, to Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm's collection of German words into an unfinished dictionary.
''There is a lust to explore our contribution to world culture in Germany right now,'' said Matthias Matussek, a journalist for the magazine Der Spiegel and author of a book exploring reasons Germans could be proud. His book generated significant controversy when it appeared in 2006 and now would be ''just one of dozens on the shelf,'' Mr. Matussek said.
In ways large and small Germany is flexing its muscles and reasserting a long-repressed national pride. Dozens of recent interviews across the country, with workers and businessmen, politicians and homemakers, artists and intellectuals, found a country more at ease with itself and its symbols, like its flag and its national anthem -- a people still aware of their country's history, but less willing to let it dictate their actions.
Concerns and Cautions
The change has not been universally welcomed, even in Germany. It has led to unusual scenes, such as antinationalist German leftists twice tearing down a more than 50-foot German flag that Lebanese immigrants had draped down the front of a building in the Berlin neighborhood of Neukolln this summer during the World Cup, when a soccer team full of immigrants' children captivated the country.
There are fears of emerging (or resurgent) chauvinism, seen recently in broadsides against Muslims by Thilo Sarrazin, who is stepping down from the board of the German central bank, after publishing a divisive best seller saying that Muslim immigrants are draining the social-welfare state and reproducing faster than ethnic Germans.
Diplomats and politicians have voiced rising concern over Germany's direction in recent years, whether in striking a contentious gas-pipeline deal with Russia or blocking NATO membership for Georgia and Ukraine.
The leading philosopher Jurgen Habermas warned recently that Germany had become a ''self-absorbed colossus.'' The financier George Soros said this summer in a speech in Berlin that the government was ''endangering the European Union'' with its economic policies.
Germans, most of whose salaries and standard of living have not improved as the economy has strengthened, are more disenchanted than ever with the financial demands of the European Union. Questions about Germany's commitment to the bloc found renewed urgency during the Greek debt crisis, which had threatened the stability of the euro, but signs had emerged well before that.
In the rush to pass the Lisbon Treaty, an accord intended to increase the European Union's political and foreign policy powers, Germany's Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe declared in June 2009 that the country's constitutional identity ''is not open to integration'' and that the public perception of politics remained connected ''to patterns of identification related to the nation-state, language, history and culture.''
While the court approved the treaty with several conditions, the strident tone of the decision was cause for alarm among supporters in Berlin and Brussels of a more unified Europe. A confidential analysis prepared for the president of the European Parliament said that the decision meant ''this far and no further'' for European integration.
The resistance to new demands partly reflects the transformation Germany has undergone in recent years. The country fused a dynamic economy in the West with a bankrupt one in the East. Germans were forced to realize that foreign guest workers were never going home -- one-fifth of its residents are now immigrants or of immigrant background. The return of the capital to Berlin and the construction of a national Holocaust memorial stirred the nation's darkest memories.
''It's not like the 1930s, where the jackboots are going to be stomping into other countries,'' said William M. Drozdiak, the president of the American Council on Germany. ''But having moved the capital from Bonn back to Berlin, there has been a profound psychological change, shifting the center of gravity to the east, with Germany thinking more like a Central European power.''
Concern about a more independent-minded Germany surfaced before the Berlin Wall fell on Nov. 9, 1989. Partly to dispel such fears, the political elites of the day, such as Chancellor Helmut Kohl, actually accelerated Germany's commitment to its neighbors, helping the European Union expand eastward and create a common currency.
Germans were not eager to give up their beloved Deutsche mark at the time. Their reluctance has only grown as Germany has been called on to help bail out Greece and perhaps other European countries that have mismanaged their fiscal affairs. While European partners see Germany as a powerhouse of productivity with enviable, competitive export companies, the debate over the future here centers on an aging, shrinking population and the rising deficits that a smaller, older population will have to pay off.
In particular, the country's municipal governments are heavily indebted. A recent study found that one in every 10 museums or other cultural institutions may be forced to close by 2020, as public funding is cut back.
''The crisis woke people up and led them to ask critical questions,'' said Ulla Robke, 65, a Bavarian homemaker. ''We can't support other countries when we have so many debts of our own.''
When France's economic minister suggested earlier this year that Germany could try to promote consumer spending to support its struggling neighbors, her German counterpart shot back that countries that had lived ''beyond their means'' should not ''point the finger.'' Another leading conservative politician declared that ''jealousy cannot be a factor in politics between European neighbors.''
A significant generational shift has taken place as the World War II generation has been dying off. For younger Germans, war in Europe is no longer a palpable memory or a tangible fear. In Mrs. Merkel's cabinet today, only one minister was born before the end of the war. Three were born in the 1970s.
As head of the youth organization of Mrs. Merkel's party, Philipp Missfelder, 31, is a leading member of the rising generation of German politicians. In an interview last week, he named not France or Poland but China and its neighbors as the most important countries for Germany's future, and lamented that the European Union required so many summit meetings that Mrs. Merkel ''barely has the chance'' to take longer trips to East Asia to build up ties there.
Mr. Missfelder said the broader change in national pride was on display on a recent visit to a kindergarten where the children sang the national anthem, which ''never would have happened'' when he was growing up. But that confidence did not extend to the country's future, because the German public was concerned about debt and rising inequality at home.
''People are afraid; the economy is booming but the wages aren't rising,'' Mr. Missfelder said, even though in the fall workers will have to start paying more for their health care. ''The participation in prosperity is smaller.''
Need Amid Plenty
With its busy container port and noble lakefront properties, Hamburg is home to the highest proportion of millionaires in Germany. But there, in a basement cluttered with unused street signs, Horst and Angelika Matzen hand out donated computers to welfare recipients. On a recent afternoon a mother and her 6-year-old son picked one out, as did a former carpenter who had sawed off his left index finger in a work accident and was in the midst of retraining.
''The better our undertaking goes, the more it shows that father state isn't taking care of people,'' said Mr. Matzen, 58, who with his white beard looks the part for his role as Santa Claus. He and his wife know the hardship faced by their beneficiaries, because they are also living on the welfare system.
Mrs. Matzen, 53, worked for 33 years as an architectural draftswoman but said she faced age discrimination in her search for a new job. ''There are a lot of forgotten people in this country.''
The fraying of the safety net troubles Germans deeply, in part because it is so deeply embedded in the country's culture. The roots of their welfare state stretch all the way back to the 1880s, when under the Iron Chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, Germany introduced health insurance, accident insurance and old-age and invalid pensions.
The number of people on the welfare program known as Hartz IV has remained stubbornly stuck at around 6.7 million people out of a population of 82 million. New jobs are lower paying and less secure. A study released in July found that the number of low-wage workers in Germany rose consistently from 1998 to 2008, to 6.6 million from 4.3 million. The number of temporary workers, just over 100,000 at the beginning of 1990, peaked at over 800,000 before the financial crisis.
German taxpayers already had to bear the burden of reunification, with the country spending by some estimates $2 trillion to rebuild East Germany. The fruits of that nation-building at home are increasingly visible, not just in the renovated splendors of historic cities like Leipzig and Dresden, but in the long moribund job market. From a high of 20.8 percent in February 2005, unemployment in the former East Germany fell to 11.5 percent by August 2010.
Growing Pride
Before 1989, Tino Petsch was a disc jockey in Karl-Marx-Stadt, creating light shows for his performances on his domestically produced KC 85/3 personal computer. Today the city has returned to its historic name of Chemnitz, and Mr. Petsch, 43, is the chief executive of his own high-tech company there, 3D-Micromac, producing work stations for laser-micromachining.
''I see as many differences between North and South as I do between East and West,'' said Mr. Petsch, who finds discussions of reunification 20 years after the fact passe. Germany enjoys a stellar reputation among businessmen in growing markets like India, China or Brazil, which prize ''made in Germany'' and Beethoven but do not share Europe's memories of the war. ''When I'm overseas, I hear all the time that we should take more pride in our nation,'' he said.
That process is gaining speed. The railway company Deutsche Bahn promised earlier this year to change its signs after a former school principal complained to his local member of Parliament about the use of English-language terms like ''hot line,'' ''service point'' and ''kiss and ride.'' Between 2000 and 2009, the share of German-produced acts in the Top 100 album charts rose to 36.7 percent from 19.5 percent.
Despite the uproar over integration, the country celebrated as one over its soccer team's surprise success this past summer. The players' ethnic backgrounds spanned from Brazil to Poland to Tunisia, including the young German star Mesut Ozil, whose family comes from Turkey, Germany's largest source of immigrants.
''I told my Turkish barber that I thought Argentina was going to beat Germany,'' said Shayan Parvand, 35, a Hamburg businessman and one of the 16 million people in Germany with what is known here as a migration background. ''He got really mad at me, and said, 'Ozil is going to shoot a goal.' ''
Mr. Parvand's family could well represent the proud but complex new Germany. He was born in Iran and his wife grew up in the former East; they have a 4-year-old daughter and 2-year-old son.
''I said to my wife recently that I'd like to build a house,'' Mr. Parvand said, ''and get one of those German flags to go with it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PATRIOTISM: Jens John raising a variation of the German flag in his garden in Brandenburg an der Havel, Germany. A truck driver, Mr. John has often been without work in the economic downturn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON WELTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHANGE: In Chemnitz, formerly Karl-Marx-Stadt, some of the old is giving way even as its traditional name has been embraced. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON WELTERS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 REMINDERS: Gunter Grass was accompanied by a drummer as he read from his war novel ''The Tin Drum'' in Frankfurt last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK RUMPENHORST/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ARMIES (76%); FOLKLORE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); TRAINS (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (69%); ALPS (56%) GERMANY (99%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



292 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Two French Automakers Start to Repay Government

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- Renault and Peugeot Citroen, the French automakers, said Friday that they had begun to repay, ahead of schedule, the billions of euros in government aid they received to help them through the financial crisis and recession. 
The companies said they were each returning 1 billion euros, or about $1.3 billion, to the French government. This will help them to cut interest costs and reduce their debt burdens, they said.
The government agreed on Feb. 9, 2009, to extend each company 3 billion euros for five years at an interest rate of 6 percent. Renault Trucks, owned by Volvo of Sweden, received 500 million euros. President Nicolas Sarkozy sought to attach strings, saying the companies should invest the money in clean technology and also protect jobs.
Under the terms of the loans, Renault and Peugeot would not have had to make any repayments before April 2011. But the loans included a provision that indexed the interest rate to the companies' operating margins; as their profitability has improved, the loans have accordingly grown more expensive.
The decision to repay early ''was chiefly triggered by the increasing cost of the loans as their respective profitability recovers,'' analysts at Fitch Ratings wrote. The analysts said both companies' earnings had recovered more rapidly than expected, and ''these loans are now more expensive for both groups than capital markets funding.''
France also helped carmakers with a cash-for-clunkers rebate program, similar to programs from its European neighbors and the United States.
The carmakers have since bounced back, helped by the tax incentives and overseas markets. Renault in July announced a first-half profit of 780 million euros, after a 2.7 billion euro loss a year earlier, as sales rose 23 percent, to 19.7 billion euros. Peugeot, the second-largest European automaker after Volkswagen, posted a profit of 680 million euros, compared with a year-earlier loss of 962 million euros. Its sales rose 21 percent, to 28.4 billion euros.
Still, the auto industry remains under strain. According to the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association, new car registrations in the European Union rose 0.2 percent in the first half of 2010 compared with the same period last year; and compared with the first six months of 2008, the market fell 10.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EURO (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEW VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); SALES REBATES (68%); CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (64%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (95%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (92%); RENAULT TRUCKS SAS (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%)

TICKER: UG (PAR) (95%); RNO (PAR) (92%); RNO (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (89%) FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



293 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Classic Coffee Shop Returns. But Is That Salmon on the Menu?

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Back in the 1950s and '60s, New York City was studded with Chock Full o'Nutscoffee shops, homegrown institutions where the budget-minded could sidle up to the lunch counter for a freshly prepared meal. But the restaurants -- once nearly as ubiquitous as the Checker cabs that inspired their yellow-and-black decor -- were all but gone by the early '80s, leaving faded memories and eventually some smaller cafes and kiosks bearing the company name.
But starting at 11 a.m. Monday, New Yorkers will once more be able to enjoy those long-lost whole-wheat doughnuts, nut-and-cream-cheese sandwiches, grilled hot dogs and split pea soups, along with their coffee, when the chain opens its first old-style restaurant in decades. 
''It finally dawned on us that we were missing the heritage, and that we really needed to get back to the roots of what Chock was really well-known for,'' said Jim LaGanke, a vice president of the company, which has continued to sell its self-proclaimed ''heavenly coffee'' in stores. ''We're going to bring back Chock to New York in a way that people remember it.''
Quite literally: the restaurant, on 23rd Street between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas, is even offering two versions of its nutty sandwich -- the original, on whole-wheat raisin bread with walnuts and Neufchatel cheese, and one with cream cheese on date-nut bread, which many people remember fondly despite its late introduction to the menu, Mr. LaGanke said.
For the developers who will operate the restaurant in the shadow of Mario Batali's high-end Eataly complex -- Joe Bruno and Patrick Johnson -- this is just the beginning. They are already constructing a second Chock in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, where the two grew up, and have the rights to develop 50 restaurants across the city (except for Staten Island) over the next 15 years.
Chock Full o'Nuts began as a nut shop in 1926 and became a coffee shop chain during the Depression. ''We're in a recession now,'' Mr. Bruno said, ''and comfort food is always something that people gravitate to. On top of that, let's face it: leases are now to be easily had in Manhattan.''
Judging from the enthusiasm with which passers-by greeted the menu in the window on Friday afternoon, Mr. Bruno's assessment may prove correct.
''I hadn't seen one of these in decades, and I got terribly excited. I called my husband, who was born, raised and educated in Manhattan,'' said Susan Scapier, who lives in the borough and declined to give her age, saying, ''That's classified -- way over 40.'' She said she had become a fan of the chain's hot dogs after she moved to New York around 1980.
Madeline Tarantino and Rose Sorrentino, longtime friends from Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, said they hoped it would be like the place they remembered for its doughnuts.
''Just goes to show, some things do come back,'' Ms. Tarantino said to Ms. Sorrentino as they strolled 23rd Street.
But some things come back different. The menu, which includes items like Buffalo wings, grilled salmon and a Cobb salad, features whipped cream cheese on the Chock Classic date-nut sandwich. Linda Mayer, 62, who was telling her husband, Ron, about her memories of the chain, said she remembered occasionally splitting that sandwich with a friend from school when they could scrape together the money for it.
''There was no such thing as whipped cream cheese in those days -- that does not make it a classic,'' she said with a smile, adding that she would visit the restaurant if she could get her old friend to come with her.
But, she added, ''You never can go home again, so I probably will not like the Chock Classic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Evangelos Gianakos, left, tried a pastrami sandwich during a preview on Friday of the Chock Full o'Nuts restaurant on 23rd Street. The formal opening is scheduled for 11 a.m. on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); BAKED GOODS (74%); COFFEE (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



294 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: New Business Class Rises in Ashes of South India's Caste System

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN; Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CHENNAI, India -- Chezi K. Ganesan looks every inch the high-tech entrepreneur, dressed in the Silicon Valley uniform of denim shirt and khaki trousers, slick smartphone close at hand. He splits his time between San Jose and this booming coastal metropolis, running his $6 million a year computer chip-making company.
His family has come a long way. His grandfather was not allowed to enter Hindu temples, or even to stand too close to upper-caste people, and women of his Nadar caste, who stood one notch above untouchables in India's ancient caste hierarchy, were once forced to bare their breasts before upper caste men as a reminder of their low station.
''Caste has no impact on life today,'' Mr. Ganesan said in an interview at one of Chennai's exclusive social clubs, the kind of place where a generation ago someone of his caste would not have been welcome. ''It is no longer a barrier.'' 
The Nadars' spectacular rise from despised manual laborers who made a mildly alcoholic palm wine to business leaders in one of India's most prosperous states offers significant clues to India's caste conundrum and how it has impeded economic progress in many parts of the country.
India is enjoying an extended economic boom, with near double-digit growth. But the benefits have not been equally shared, and southern India has rocketed far ahead of much of the rest of the country on virtually every score -- people here earn more money, are better educated, live longer lives and have fewer children.
A crucial factor is the collapse of the caste system over the last half century, a factor that undergirds many of the other reasons that the south has prospered -- more stable governments, better infrastructure and a geographic position that gives it closer connections to the global economy.
''The breakdown of caste hierarchy has broken the traditional links between caste and profession, and released enormous entrepreneurial energies in the south,'' said Ashutosh Varshney, a professor at Brown University who has studied the role of caste in southern India's development. This breakdown, he said, goes a long way to explaining ''why the south has taken such a lead over the north in the last three decades.''
India's Constitution abolished discrimination on the basis of caste, the social hierarchy that has ordered Indian life for millenniums, and instituted a system of quotas to help those at the bottom rise up. But caste divisions persist nonetheless, with upper castes dominating many spheres of life despite their relatively small numbers.
While in the south lower caste members concentrated on economic development and education as a route to prosperity, in the north the chief aim of caste-based groups has been political power and its spoils. As a result India's northern lower castes tend to be less educated and less prosperous than their southern counterparts. Charismatic leaders in the north from lower castes have used caste identity as a way to mobilize voters, winning control over several large north Indian states. Caste so thoroughly permeates politics in the northern half of the world's largest democracy that it is often said that people don't cast their vote; they vote their caste.
Caste is so crucial to northern politics that caste-based parties have demanded that caste be included in India's census, and the government, bowing to pressure, agreed to collect data on caste for the first time since independence. They hope that by showing their large numbers, caste-based parties can force government to set aside more jobs for their communities.
Tamil Nadu's Nadars belong to a community in the middle of India's caste system, occupying a place barely above the untouchables, now called Dalits. Academics and analysts have closely watched the rise of the Nadar caste for clues about the role caste barriers play in holding back India's economic progress.
Unlike northern India, where caste-based political movements are a fairly recent phenomenon, lower castes in southern India began agitating against upper-caste domination at the beginning of the 20th century. Because these movements arose before independence and the possibility of elected political power, they focused on issues like dignity, education, and self-reliance, Mr. Varshney said.
Nadars created business associations to provide entrepreneurs with credit they could not get from banks. They started charities to pay for education for poor children. They built their own temples and marriage halls to avoid upper caste discrimination.
''Our community focused on education, not politics,'' said R. Chandramogan, a Nadar entrepreneur who built India's largest privately owned dairy company from scratch. ''We knew that with education, we could accomplish anything.''
As a result, when independence came the southern lower castes, who had already broken the upper caste monopoly on economic power, enjoyed political power almost right from the start. Tamil Nadu set aside 69 percent of government jobs and seats in higher education for downtrodden castes, which helped rapidly move lower caste people into the mainstream. The north put in place affirmative action policies, but because education was widely embraced, southern people from lower castes were better able to take advantage of these opportunities than northerners.
When India's economy liberalized in the 1990s, the south was far more prepared to take advantage of globalization, said Samuel Paul of the Public Affairs Center, a research institution that has looked closely at the growing divide between north and south India. ''The south was ready,'' Mr. Paul said.
Nadar businessmen like C. Manickavel have skillfully ridden the waves of prosperity that have crashed over India since liberalization, making small fortunes. Mr. Manickavel's father had started a small printing business in Chennai, which at its peak made $40,000 a year. But he sent his son to one of the best engineering schools in India, and Mr. Manickavel has turned that modest business into a $1 million-a-year operation that designs e-books for big American publishers.
''We are supposed to be a backward community but we don't think of ourselves that way,'' he said in an interview in his state-of-the-art paperless e-publishing facility here. ''I make sure my daughter studies at the best school in Chennai. We are as good as anybody else.''
It remains to be seen if the political agitation around caste in northern India will produce prosperity for lower caste people there, experts say. In India's liberalizing economy these communities must prepare themselves to compete, not simply demand a bigger slice of the shrinking government cake, said Rajeev Ranjan, the chief bureaucrat in charge of industrial development in Tamil Nadu.
He is originally from Bihar, a northern state thoroughly in the grip of caste politics, but he has been stationed in the south for 25 years. He said northern states must heed the southern example. ''Without that kind of social change it is very hard to do economic development,'' he said. ''One depends on the other.''
Correction: October 11, 2010, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Sept. 11 about the uneven prosperity in India despite its extended economic boom misstated the country's constitutional law regarding the caste system, the social hierarchy that has ordered Indian life for millenniums and that remains an impediment to the advancement of lower castes. The constitution abolished discrimination on the basis of caste. It did not abolish caste.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chezi K. Ganesan runs a $6 million a year computer company in Chennai. His caste, the Nadars, have gone from despised manual laborers to business leaders in the last half century. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (94%); SOUTH INDIA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010



295 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Back to School, Back to Basics

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and MALIA WOLLAN; Stephanie Clifford reported from Queensbury, N.Y., and Malia Wollan from Fairfield, Calif. Karen Ann Cullotta contributed reporting from Schaumburg, Ill., and Robbie Brown from Atlanta.

 BODY:
QUEENSBURY, N.Y. -- It was the day before Libbie Palmer began school, and her mother, Becky, was taking her shopping for one last thing at the Aviation Mall here in the Adirondack foothills. ''I realized I didn't get her a pair of shoes,'' Ms. Palmer said.
Libbie, 12, was comparing three pairs of marked-down J. C. Penney sneakers -- she chose the $19.99 ones patterned with skulls -- as her mother spoke of buying ''a little bit less'' than last year.
''The only thing we really look at is sales,'' Libbie piped in. 
Across the country, families say they have trimmed what little fat there was in their back-to-school budgets. The tightening has been an unexpected blow to many retailers, who had bet that consumers would be spending again and that the school season would be fuel for an industry turnaround.
Instead, sales figures have been disappointing and awkward scenes have been playing out at checkout counters, as parents and children tussle over wish lists, coupon items get substituted for full-price ones and necessities like underwear and socks take priority over graphic T-shirts and designer jeans.
''All the kids want the new stuff,'' said Pamela Boland, who was shopping at the Westfield Solano shopping mall in Fairfield, Calif., for her 10-year-old granddaughter, Pandora. ''It's just tough -- you have to make decisions about what to get and what not to get, and there is so much peer pressure on them.''
James Wilkes, 17, was making his own back-to-school purchases at the same mall, but with just $80 from his parents (''a lot less than last year'') and $100 from washing cars, he said his choices were limited.
''I like to keep up with fashion stuff but I can't look as good this year, I guess,'' said James, a high-school senior from Dixon, Calif. For his leadership club, where students have to wear office-appropriate gear once a week, James has taken to borrowing his dad's ties and brother's old dress shoes.
Even with the recession technically behind them, some 73 percent of Americans who are in school or have school-aged children said their back-to-school budgets were either the same as last year's or smaller, according to a Chase Slate -- U.S. News Monitor survey in August. That pattern was reflected in the August sales results from several retailers, where there were only small sales increases at stores open more than a year despite heavy discounts.
After strong retail sales early in the year, the return to cautious spending could signal that frugal habits are not just a hangover from the recession, but that many Americans now shop mostly out of necessity instead of desire.
''Families are sticking much closer to needs versus wants as it relates to back-to-school,'' said John Long, a retail strategist at the consulting firm Kurt Salmon Associates. ''Right now, there's not many places that consumers can fund their purchases from, that we don't know about -- unless we get a better jobs picture, unless we get a better housing market,''
Smaller paychecks explain some of the belt-tightening.
A year ago, Ms. Boland, the California grandmother, spent $400 on back-to-school clothes for her granddaughter. This year, though, the trucking company where Ms. Boland is an office manager cut back on her hours, and she could only afford about $150.
''We went through all her clothes to see what she could still wear,'' said Ms. Boland. As her grandmother spoke, Pandora spilled an orange soda down the front of her blue jersey dress, potentially putting another item in the replacement column.
Anastasia Duncan-Hall, 42, said she was also cutting back because of job worries.
Ms. Duncan-Hall has two teenagers, and also buys clothes for her 12-year-old niece, Natalia. Last year, she spent about $500 on Natalia, she said.
But her husband's hours as a trucking-company driver have been reduced, forcing big changes. She halved what she spent on her 17-year-old son, and told her 18-year-old daughter, a community-college student, that she would have to buy her own clothes this year. The budget for Natalia was cut to zero.
''I just could not afford it this year,'' said Ms. Duncan-Hall, who was going into the J. C. Penney in Fairfield, which is about 55 miles northeast of San Francisco.
Many teenagers have been left trying to fill in the gaps left by their parents -- or learning to do without.
Ilana Pedley, 17, of Pinole, Calif., used to receive $100 from each of her parents in the fall. But her father closed the shoe store he owned last September and is out of work, and Ilana received nothing from either parent this year.
''It makes me sad -- it makes me feel like I need to do more,'' Ilana said.
Even some families with steady incomes have changed their spending.
Beth Jensen, 47, was sorting through hoodies at an Aeropostale at the Woodfield Mall in Schaumburg, Ill. Ms. Jensen said she and her husband had the same jobs and pay as before the recession, but the psychology of shopping had changed nonetheless.
''We don't just buy something for the kids because it's a good deal anymore,'' she said. ''We're only buying them what they really need.''
At a Target in east Atlanta, DeAnn Williams, a retired secretary, was shopping with her granddaughter Latisha, a first-grader. Latisha reviewed what she needed (poster board) and what she wanted (a bright pink skirt). Though Ms. Williams said money was not too tight, she decided to stick with the needs and hold off on the wants, since saving money was always helpful.
''You think twice about toys, fun things, anything the teacher didn't say they need,'' she said.
One upside of the uncertain economy for shoppers is that many stores are offering discounts to drum up visits. On Tuesday, Cyndie Wade-Wood and her daughter Victoria Wood, 10, were among the few people in Justice, a girls' clothing store here in Queensbury, about 200 miles north of New York City. They were loading their arms with bright sweaters and dresses.
Victoria had outgrown almost her entire wardrobe, Ms. Wade-Wood said, but with all the sales and coupons this year, replacing her clothes was fairly affordable -- she had $200 in promotional dollars from Justice that she was trying to spend.
''Stores are very competitive this season,'' Ms. Wade-Wood said.
The markdowns also meant pleasant surprises for shoppers like Sonya Rennier in Schaumburg. Trendy retailers like Aeropostale and Abercrombie & Fitch, which Ms. Rennier, 60, once thought too expensive, suddenly had prices rivaling Target and Sears, where she usually shopped for her two daughters.
''We're lucky, because we've not been as affected as many people by the economy, but we're still not spending as much on clothing as we used to,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Jensens kept a budget in mind as they shopped in Schaumburg, Ill. From left are Brian, Beth, Brandon and Taylor. (B1)
 Courtney Rennier, Jennifer Grim and Jessica Grim shop in Illinois with Jennifer and Jessica's parents, Janet and Jay Grim. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMANDA RIVKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



296 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Japan Plans Intervention To Stem Rise In the Yen

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- The Japanese government is gearing up to intervene in global currency markets to curb a strengthening yen, Prime Minister Naoto Kan said Friday, signaling an effort to limit further damage to Japan's export-led economy.
Any intervention is expected to do little to stem the yen's rise in the long term, however, especially without cooperation from the United States or Europe, which are happy to see their exporters gain a competitive edge against the Japanese. 
Increased purchases of yen-dominated bonds by China, which is seeking to diversify its foreign reserves away from the dollar, could also add to the upward pressure on the yen. And as long as the yen is still seen as a relative safe haven by investors, the buying is unlikely to stop, analysts say.
Mr. Kan repeated a common refrain from Japanese officials in recent weeks: that Tokyo was ready to act as needed to curb the yen's advance. This time, though, he spoke in more detail than before about a possible intervention, saying Japanese officials were in talks with their counterparts overseas to lay the groundwork for such a maneuver.
''We're conducting various talks, so other countries won't say negative things when Japan acts,'' Mr. Kan said. ''We're studying now various scenarios, examining possible responses from markets when we take a decisive measure.''
Mr. Kan, who faces a challenge to his leadership in a party ballot next week, has been keen to make some sort of stand against the surging yen. The Japanese currency has appreciated about 10 percent this year against the dollar and hit a fresh 15-year high this week. On Friday afternoon in New York, a dollar would buy only 84.17 yen.
A strong yen hurts Japan's exporters -- on which the country relies for much of its economic growth -- by making their products more expensive overseas, or by eroding the value of their foreign earnings when repatriated into the home currency.
Ichiro Ozawa, Mr. Kan's opponent in the Sept. 14 ballot for the ruling Democratic Party, called for a more decisive stance. ''The Japanese government should declare that it will not hesitate to intervene in markets,'' Mr. Ozawa said.
The Japanese government has held off from currency intervention since March 2004, when the yen traded for around 109 yen to the dollar. Then, it sold trillions of yen on international currency markets in a bid to weaken the yen.
But as the world's major nations increasingly shun currency manipulation, ''there is not much that policy can do'' about the strong yen, Ryutaro Kono, chief economist for Japan at BNP Paribas, wrote in a report published Friday.
''Intervention in the forex market would probably not go over well overseas,'' he said, referring to the market for foreign currencies. Instead, Japan must undertake structural reforms to make its economy more resilient to fluctuations in its currency, he said.
The government reported Friday that Japan's economy grew more in the second quarter than preliminary data had indicated. The country's gross domestic product expanded 0.4 percent in the April-June period from the previous quarter -- higher than an initial estimate of just 0.1 percent.
Still, as Japan seeks to shake off last year's punishing recession, it faces considerable headwinds. Those include the strong yen and a slowing global economic recovery, along with persistent deflation -- the general fall in prices that has weighed on Japan's economy over the last decade.
Growth rates later this year ''are expected to slow considerably, leveling off and raising concerns of a double-dip recession,'' Hirokata Kusaba, an economist for the Tokyo-based Mizuho Research Institute, said in a note to clients.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Naoto Kan 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (50%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (50%); BNP (BIT) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



297 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Inventories Increased 1.3% in July

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- American wholesale inventories surged by the largest amount in two years in July, a government report said on Friday, in a sign that many companies were anticipating enough demand to increase their stock this summer. 
Inventories rose 1.3 percent, the steepest gain since July 2008, and more than three times the 0.4 percent increase analysts had anticipated, a Commerce Department report showed.
A restocking of inventories has helped drive the economy's recovery, but analysts say slowing demand has probably left businesses with ample stocks and they expect the lift from inventories to fade in the second half of the year.
A quickened pace of inventory accumulation accounted for 0.6 percentage points of the economy's 1.6 percent annual growth rate in the second quarter.
Economic data suggests the recovery may have lost steam over the summer. Friday's report showed wholesale sales rose by a larger-than-expected 0.6 percent in July, suggesting inventories might not have been gathering too much dust on shelves.
But the sales rise followed declines in June and May, and analysts said sales would need to stay strong to support continued inventory building.
''In general there has been an increase in inventories at a time when the economy is slowing down,'' said Brian A. Bethune, an economist with IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Mass. Something needs to give, Mr. Bethune said, ''Either the economy picks up or production has to be cut.''
The inventory-to-sales ratio, which measures how long it would take to clear shelves at the current sales pace, edged up to 1.16 months' worth. It was the highest since February, but was down from 1.27 months' worth a year ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



298 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Weighs Heavy In Ohio Race

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
LOUISVILLE, Ohio -- As Representative John Boccieri traversed his district during the Congressional recess, from Mike's-Milann's restaurant to Metzger's Ace Hardware to the Danbury assisted-living home, he was trailed by the vote he cast on March 21 in favor of the Democratic health care bill. And by the vote he cast on Nov. 7 against it.
Here in northeastern Ohio, as around the country, the political impact of the health care vote has been eclipsed by voters' concerns about the economy and jobs. But Mr. Boccieri, a freshman Democrat who supported the final bill after first voting against a more expensive House version, still finds himself defending the law at stop after stop.
Because Mr. Boccieri, along with seven other Democrats, switched his vote to ensure the bill's passage, his task is more challenging than most. Not only does he face opposition from those who dislike the health care law on its merits, but he has stoked cynicism about his independence from President Obama and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, both of whom are unpopular in this conservative-leaning district. 
''It's going to have a drastic effect here,'' predicted the mayor of this town of 9,000, Pat Fallot, a Republican who said she voted for Mr. Boccieri in 2008 but was now undecided. ''People in our city feel the health care law is going to hurt them more than it will help them. And some of their thoughts are that he was swayed by Nancy Pelosi.''
The health care overhaul, a dream of liberal Democrats for decades, has been used by political opponents to build a case that Mr. Obama is guilty of ideological overreach. After hard-fought passage of the sweeping law, White House officials expressed confidence that voters would become more supportive once the fury of the legislative debate faded and Americans more clearly assessed the tangible benefits.
Yet despite a White House campaign to promote the law's most popular components before the midterm elections, recent polls suggest that national support is at best stagnant, in the range of 40 percent, and may be declining after early signs of improvement. Some polls have found substantial opposition in the swing districts that matter most, like Ohio's 16th.
The Democratic playbook in those districts has been to focus attention elsewhere, while defending the law when challenged. Although it is early in the advertising season, the only Democratic House incumbents who have used television to extol their positions on health care are among the 34 who voted against the bill, according to Democratic campaign officials.
Several are broadcasting ads with messages like that of Representative Jason Altmire of Pennsylvania: ''Jason's independent, no doubt about it. You saw it when he voted against health care.''
Even some Democrats running for state offices, who do not have votes to defend, are distancing themselves from their party's signature domestic achievement. In Georgia, for instance, former Gov. Roy Barnes, a Democrat seeking to regain the job he lost eight years ago, told The Associated Press this week that he considered the law ''to be the greatest failure, modern failure, of political leadership in my lifetime.'' It could be ''financially devastating'' to the state, he warned.
Mr. Obama, when asked at his news conference Friday about Democrats who are running against his plan, said only that ''people are going to make the best argument they can right now, and they're going to be taking polls of what their particular constituents are saying and trying to align with that.''
Mr. Boccieri's district, which has been hit hard by plant closings in and around Canton, seems particularly hostile to the health care law. During two days in August, Mr. Boccieri was confronted at the restaurant by Richard R. Guiley, a Louisville councilman who told him the business community objected strongly to his vote; at the hardware store by Dave Kennedy, a teacher who accused him of voting against his constituents; and at the assisted-living center by Marge Johnson, the manager, who said she feared socialized medicine, ''where you can't go to your own doctor and you have to wait and wait and wait.''
Mr. Boccieri, 41, deferentially let them have their say. ''Is it everything that I wanted?'' he would ask. ''No. But we've got to start somewhere.''
Until last year, Ohio's 16th District had been represented by bring-home-the-bacon Republicans for 51 years. The retirement of Representative Ralph Regula after 18 terms presented an opening for Mr. Boccieri, a centrist state senator who had been a minor-league outfielder and an Air Force Reserve pilot with deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. In 2008, he won the general election by 10 percentage points while Mr. Obama lost the district by 2.
This year, Mr. Boccieri faces Jim Renacci, a businessman and former small-town mayor who supports repeal of the health law. Mr. Renacci has yet to advertise about Mr. Boccieri's vote -- his first commercial was all about jobs -- but he is not reluctant to raise it.
''He is an icon for the flip-flop vote,'' Mr. Renacci said of Mr. Boccieri in an interview. ''John voted for this bill when a majority of people in this district did not want it.''
Mr. Boccieri said he found his district evenly divided on the law. The discontent, he said, seems to stem as much from the unseemliness of the legislative process as from the finished product.
Many constituents link the legislation to concerns about deficit spending, and Mr. Boccieri takes pains to explain that one reason he voted for the final version was that it was less expensive and did more to reduce the deficit. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the final bill would spend $940 billion over 10 years and reduce the deficit by $143 billion, while the earlier House version would have spent $1.05 trillion and cut the deficit by $104 billion.
When asked about his vote, Mr. Boccieri seeks to frame the law's benefits in terms of economic security, and to humanize them with real-life examples.
He acknowledges he was lobbied by Mr. Obama and the House leadership, and he has received substantial campaign assistance from trade unions allied with the Democratic Party.
But Mr. Boccieri likes to suggest it was Natoma Canfield, not Ms. Pelosi, who most influenced his vote. Ms. Canfield, a cancer survivor who lives in Mr. Boccieri's district, became a rallying point for the legislation after Mr. Obama publicized a letter from her about her inability to afford health insurance.
''She kind of took me back to a place I hadn't been in a long time,'' Mr. Boccieri said, ''when I was standing at the foot of my mother's bed and she told us she had breast cancer and might not make it. If she hadn't had health insurance, would she have made it? How would my life have been different? Would I have been able to go to college?''
Mr. Boccieri regularly ticks off the tales of other Natoma Canfields in his district: Jack Hillyer, who lost his savings to a heart attack; Jay Hawkins, a 10-year-old who is uninsurable because of his autism; Lora Nicodemo, whose diabetic sister died without health coverage.
Mr. Boccieri's campaign flew the three to Washington to stand at his side when he announced his change of position two days before the House vote. Mr. Obama was so moved that he held Mr. Boccieri out for praise in a speech the next day.
''It's my job as a member of Congress not only to sort through some of the political weeds but to understand that this affects real people,'' Mr. Boccieri said in a telephone call with constituents this summer. ''If I can take a vote that helps one person, one Jack Hillyer, one Jay Hawkins, one Nicodemo family member, I can take these votes with a clear conscience.''
Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said Republicans who campaigned for repeal did so at their own peril. He said Democrats would cast them as opponents of ending insurer discrimination against people with pre-existing health conditions, a message that has tested well in polling.
''The American people have mixed views on health care reform,'' Mr. Van Hollen said, ''but it's also very clear that they don't want to throw it all out and start from scratch.''
For some of Mr. Boccieri's constituents, however, the issue is more fundamental. Elsie M. Hydash, 61, an office manager from Orrville, said she had switched her party registration last spring so she could vote for Mr. Renacci in the Republican primary. She said she could not get past Mr. Boccieri's reversal on health care.
''It bothered me that he first voted against it and then turned around and voted for it,'' Ms. Hydash said. ''I need trust. What made him change? Who talked to him behind the scenes? What made that happen?''
STATE IN PLAY: After the Overhaul. This is part of a series of articles looking at House and Senate races in the battleground state of Ohio and other developments there that highlight the forces shaping politics in the 2010 midterm campaign. Previous articles in the series: nytimes.com/politics

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Corcodel, 87, left, gave Representative John Boccieri an earful on Aug. 11 at Samantha's Restaurant in North Canton, Ohio.
 Mr. Boccieri, a Democrat in a tight race for re-election, discussed political issues with diners at Samantha's Restaurant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (77%); MAYORS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%)

PERSON: JOHN BOCCIERI (92%); JASON ALTMIRE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



299 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Paying The Price

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Like homeowners in the path of an approaching wildfire, Democrats are scrambling to salvage what they can from an anticipated disaster in the coming elections.
Pundits are predicting the loss of the House and maybe even the Senate to the Republicans, and polls are showing a level of disenchantment among voters that is bordering on despair. Nearly two-thirds of respondents to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll said they believe the country is in a state of decline.
A full two-thirds said they are no longer confident ''that life for our children's generation will be better than it has been for us.'' 
People feel that the country is going to hell, that the system itself has broken down, and President Obama and the Democrats have been unable to assuage that awful feeling. The White House and Democratic Congressional leaders can point to a long string of legislative accomplishments -- passage of a health insurance overhaul, financial reform, a stimulus package that may have been misshapen and too small but nevertheless helped stave off a worse economic disaster, and so on.
But voters do not feel that the administration and Congress have delivered the fundamental change they were seeking when they swept President Obama and huge Democratic majorities into office nearly two years ago. Forget about the crazies in the Tea Party for the moment. Forget about the ugly Republican obstructionism that is based on the idea that the failure not just of President Obama but of American society itself is the G.O.P.'s quickest ticket back to power.
Forget about that for a moment. The Democrats are in deep, deep trouble because they have not effectively addressed the overwhelming concern of working men and women: an economy that is too weak to provide the jobs they need to support themselves and their families. And that failure is rooted in the Democrats' continued fascination with the self-serving conservative belief that the way to help ordinary people is to shower money on the rich and wait for the blessings to trickle down to the great unwashed below.
It was a bogus concept when George H.W. Bush denounced it as ''voodoo economics'' in 1980, and it remains bogus today, no matter how hard the Democrats try to dress it up in a donkey costume.
A survey of American workers by the Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University found that more than 70 percent had either lost a job or had a relative or close friend who had lost a job. Nearly two of three expect the U.S. to still be in recession next year, and nearly one in five are worried that a depression may be coming.
This economy and the rampant anxiety it has caused would be toxic stuff for whatever party was in power.
White House spokesman Robert Gibbs, commenting on the president's recent $50 billion transportation infrastructure proposal, said: ''This is about long-term economic growth. This isn't about the next 60 days or the next 90 days. This is about how do we get our economy fully back on track, how do we get the millions that want to work back to work, and how do we repair the economic damage that's been going on not just over the past two years but over the past 10 years.''
Well, that's the drum the Democrats should have been pounding in the earliest days of the Obama administration, and they should have backed it up with a dramatic rebuild America infrastructure campaign and every other job-creation measure they could think of, including public works projects for the young and the poor and the hard-core unemployed.
With the nation losing hundreds of thousands of jobs a month in early-2009, the president and his allies in Congress could have rallied the citizenry to participate in the difficult work of nation-building here at home. He could have called on everyone to share in the sacrifices that needed to be made, and he could have demanded much more from the financial and corporate elites who were being bailed out with the people's money.
The example had already been set by Franklin Roosevelt, who declared in his first Inaugural Address that ''our greatest primary task is to put people to work.'' And that task, he said, should be treated ''as we would treat the emergency of a war.''
For Mr. Obama and the Democrats, that would have meant that health insurance reform, however noble, would have had to wait, and the war in Afghanistan would have had to de-escalate.
That didn't happen. The Democrats are facing an election debacle because they did not respond adequately to their constituents' most dire needs. The thing that is really weird is that a strengthened G.O.P. will undoubtedly make matters so much worse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); FAMILY (75%); CHILDREN (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); BANKING & FINANCE (52%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (72%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



300 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Horror In The Hedges

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
In a continuing effort to bring you cheerful news even when the world seems determined to be abysmal, I want to point out that next week is the end of the primary election season. Which began, as we all know, sometime during the reign of Ethelred the Unready.
The sole exception is Louisiana, which is having yet another series of runoffs on Oct. 2. What is it with you, Louisiana? We worry about your weather, your oil wells, your family-values senator consorting with prostitutes. And now it seems you're never going to stop voting. Why are you making this so complicated? 
But let's focus on Delaware, which is having one of several big primaries on Tuesday that pit an established Republican against a Tea Party insurgent. Until recently, everyone presumed the Senate nominee would be Mike Castle, 71, a former governor who has been the state's one and only congressman for the last 18 years. (We will stop here and briefly contemplate the fact that while Delaware has enough people to fill only one of the nation's 435 Congressional districts, it gets two senators.)
Then the Tea Party Express, which provided critical financial help to a little-known right-wing insurgent who won the Senate nomination in Alaska, announced it was sending $250,000 to Christine O'Donnell in Delaware. That was followed by The Endorsement. Sarah Palin called Sean Hannity's radio show and then made the all-important Facebook posting, predicting O'Donnell would ''help usher in the real change we need to get America on the right track.''
The Democrats, who had nominated a county executive, Chris Coons, without much optimism, did their happy dance. ''Thank you, Jesus,'' breathed a Democratic operative when Palin bestowed her blessing. There was perhaps a time when the Democrats would have rooted for Castle, who has worked well with them on bipartisan legislation in the past. That is so over.
O'Donnell is a marketing consultant whose clients included the movie ''The Passion of the Christ'' and a Vatican portrait-painter. One of the most notable things on her political resume is her well-publicized position against masturbation. (''The Bible says that lust in your heart is committing adultery. So you can't masturbate without lust.'')
Her real drawbacks as a candidate are numbers and shrubbery. O'Donnell has had a series of financial problems, and her disclosure form says she earned only $5,800 last year, although she claims she had other income that didn't require disclosing. She said for years that she was a 1993 graduate of Fairleigh Dickinson University, but it turns out she actually got her degree ... last week. And a conservative radio host was compelled to correct her when she claimed that she had won two counties in a 2008 race against Senator Joe Biden. That would have been quite a trick, given that Delaware has only three counties and she lost the election by 65 percent to 35 percent.
''I meant tied,'' she said, forcing the host to point out: ''You didn't tie him either.''
About the shrubs. O'Donnell's campaign pays half the rent on her town house, which she argued is appropriate since she really lives elsewhere, in a location she needs to conceal from her opponents. She told The Weekly Standard that she returns at the end of the day to the town house ''and then we have our team come out and check all the bushes and check all the cars'' to see if she is being followed by someone who might jeopardize her safety. Her opponents, she added, are also ''hiding in the bushes when I'm at candidate forums.''
Political parties traditionally stay neutral in primaries, and encourage the contenders to save their negative ads for the general election. But those rules shouldn't apply if there's a truly strange and unelectable person on the ballot. Otherwise you wind up with situations like South Carolina, where Democrats gave their Senate nomination to Alvin Greene, an unemployed political novice recently indicted on a felony charge who has an economic development platform that seems to center on encouraging the manufacturing of Alvin Greene action figures.
So this week the Republican Party of Delaware filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission, claiming the O'Donnell campaign and the Tea Party Express are illegally working in concert. Castle abandoned the high road and began running ads about O'Donnell's past financial difficulties. (''Owes $11,744 in back taxes. Defaulted on her mortgage.'')
Her campaign believes this will all increase sympathy for their candidate and remind Delaware that O'Donnell is a woman of the people. Which is definitely the case if you define people as individuals whose foliage is filled with enemies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (88%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (84%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GOVERNORS (72%); BRITISH MONARCHS (72%); COUNTIES (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); PROSTITUTION (55%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (57%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (57%); CHRIS COONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



301 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Bessies Are Back After a Hiatus, Primed for a Major Makeover

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

 BODY:
Last year the Bessies, otherwise known as the New York Dance and Performance Awards, took a breather. The hiatus was a temporary solution to a bigger problem: how to make the awards meaningful again.
Established in 1983 by David R. White and originally produced by Dance Theater Workshop, the Bessies, named after the dance educator and mentor Bessie Schonberg, were geared mainly toward experimental, noncommercial work and were in dire need of a makeover. After two of the awards' main proponents, Mr. White and Laurie Uprichard, executive director of Danspace, left New York, the committee handing out the Bessies lost steam. The financial crisis didn't help. And the voting process was perplexing to outsiders. What used to be a major event on the dance calendar had fizzled out.
When the choreographer Reggie Wilson had to decide between joining a new steering committee consisting mainly of producers and dance artists to address the situation and being eligible for an award, he chose the committee.
''It shouldn't be that way,'' he said. ''It should be so valuable and important to get a Bessie that I would do anything for it.'' 
Now the Bessies are in the midst of an overhaul that, while not yet complete, may restore their luster. Lucy Sexton, a performer, director, choreographer and co-founder of the dance and performance duo Dancenoise, is now their producer. Dance/NYC, an arts service and advocacy organization, will administer the awards, which signifies an important shift. In recent years Dance Theater Workshop, Danspace Project and the Joyce Theater have produced them, which struck many as a conflict of interest because they could present potential winners on their stages. (As a matter of disclosure, I served on the committee from 1996 to 2006.)
Major changes will be evident next year when Ms. Sexton's revisions are put into play. They include broadening the field to consider more types of dance (like ballet, Indian classical dance and Broadway); a departure from general categories to specific ones; and a new structure for nominating and voting.
In the meantime she has planned a ceremony to cover two seasons (2008-9 and 2009-10) next month at Symphony Space. Six productions will be honored from each year, along with six performers. Isaac Mizrahi, who has designed costumes for choreographers like Mark Morris and Twyla Tharp, will host the free event, and presenters will include the former City Ballet dancer Jock Soto; Ballet Hispanico's founder, Tina Ramirez; and the choreographer Yvonne Rainer.
The revamping resonates with another member of the steering committee, the choreographer Elizabeth Streb. ''I want to have the entire United States care about this field,'' Ms. Streb said. ''The award ceremonies have to reach another set of ears and eyes.''
Ms. Sexton is on the same page. ''I'm committed to the idea that you should always take the time to acknowledge someone's work,'' she said. ''Dance is so ephemeral, and performances happen in such a short period of time -- someone's at Performance Space 122 for five nights, and that might be the only show they do for two years. If you don't make it to any of those five nights, how does it exist?''
A passionate advocate of the awards -- she won a Bessie in 1989 -- Ms. Sexton is overseeing the steering committee and has held several community meetings to test out her ideas.
''I'm psycho,'' she said, laughing. ''I like the challenge of it, and I like grass-roots organizing, and that's what the job is: it's getting people to invest and have ownership of it.''
Ms. Sexton's plans make those who would prefer that the Bessies remain largely focused on downtown dance somewhat hesitant. Ishmael Houston-Jones, a member of the standing Bessie committee, said he was torn. ''I think the effectiveness is diluted if it gets too broad,'' he said.
After the awards were put on hiatus, Mr. Houston-Jones created his own list of recipients called My Messies, which he posted online. He may do so again.
''There's something really valuable in recognizing experimentation and exploration,'' he said.
But it is not Ms. Sexton's aim to sacrifice experimentation or a rigorous selection process by considering other forms of dance. Rather, she said, she is more intent on having the awards recognize the dance world's breadth.
Next year nominations will be made public. The new categories will include those for a work that stretches the boundaries of a traditional form; outstanding production in a site under 400 seats and one in a site over that number; emerging choreographer; lifetime achievement; young dancer (under 30); work not made in New York; and the tentatively named wild-card award, for a production not easily categorized as dance.
Subcommittees are also part of Ms. Sexton's master plan, in which experts will be charged with looking at a specific area of dance and coming up with a list of finalists, with a winner chosen after discussion among all the committee members.
''Not everybody can see everything,'' she said. ''But there is a real value to getting in a room and talking about work.''
Ms. Sexton is also adding two juried awards. One involves the creation of a Bessie membership, which she likens to an academy. Members from the dance world will pay a $10 annual fee and be eligible to vote for one of three shows nominated by the entire Bessie committee.
The winner of the other juried award will be chosen by three prominent artists and three dance presenters and granted two months of rehearsal and development time at Symphony Space, as well as a season at the theater and at two others elsewhere in the United States.
''In my dream of dreams, this will one day be a commissioned award,'' Ms. Sexton said, referring to funds to create a dance. ''That particular nature of an award does everything I want it to accomplish in terms of giving more value and more support to artists. And it can be done.''
But for Ms. Sexton, awards are not only a way to honor artists, but also a reason to gather. In other words, she likes a good party.
''I think if there is going to be any cross-pollination and people talking and dancing with each other, that happens at the party afterward,'' she said. ''No matter how informal it is -- even if we just go to an Irish bar down the block, we will do it because the party is a big part of the ritual.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lucy Sexton, a performer and choreographer, is the producer of the Bessie Awards. (C1)
 Lucy Sexton oversees a steering committee to revamp the Bessie Awards that includes the choreographer Reggie Wilson. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIETA CERVANTES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE (90%); BALLET (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DANCERS (89%); THEATER (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); DANCE EDUCATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



302 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: After Ruling On Gay Policy, New Questions For Obama

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Charlie Savage contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In many ways, the ruling on Thursday by a federal judge that found the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy toward gay and bisexual members of the military unconstitutional is good news for the Obama administration. 
President Obama supports a repeal of the policy, as does his defense secretary, and the House voted to let the Defense Department repeal the ban in May. The Senate has been pondering taking action under increasing pressure from advocates for a policy change.
But things are rarely as straightforward as they seem in Washington, and in other ways the decision presents the White House and Congressional Democrats with a problem.
To begin with, the administration can defend the existing laws and may well appeal the ruling by Judge Virginia A. Phillips of Federal District Court in California declaring the existing policy unconstitutional. (A similar dynamic occurred when the administration defended the Defense of Marriage Act, the 1996 statute that puts obstacles in front of legal recognition for same-sex marriages, despite Mr. Obama's opposition to the act.)
Further, while groups that support a ban are now ratcheting up pressure on members of the Senate to vote on a measure ending the policy, there is a slim chance that the bill will make it to the floor before Congress heads home next month to campaign for the midterm elections.
The Senate has considerable other business to take up over a short period of time, largely bills pertaining to taxes and the economy. Quick enactment of this policy change, which would be made through an amendment to a larger Pentagon authorization bill, seems unlikely, especially given widespread opposition among conservatives.
There is also the political reality that Democrats in competitive states and districts are unlikely to want to engage in a fight over an issue of social policy and risk further energizing conservative voters just seven weeks before Election Day.
The government has 60 days to file any appeal of the ruling, which puts the administration in an awkward position among the liberal base voters who have been pressing for repeal of the policy.
The acting solicitor general, Neal Katyal, must approve any appeal the Justice Department files. A department spokesman said Friday that it was ''reviewing the judge's opinion.''
The issue has barely surfaced in the raucous approach to the midterm elections, in which every imaginable wedge issue is being weighed.
Jim Manley, spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said the policy change remained ''an important priority but we need some Republican cooperation.''
One Republican, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, already voted in favor of allowing the military to repeal the current policy when the issue was before the Armed Services Committee. But at least one Democrat, Senator Jim Webb of Virginia, has expressed concerns about such a repeal, and it is not clear whether Democrats have the necessary 60 votes to move the legislation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (77%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); MARRIAGE LAW (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); APPEALS (69%); MARRIAGE (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JIM WEBB (57%); HARRY REID (57%); SUSAN COLLINS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010



303 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Cuba: Castro Explains His Words

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Fidel Castro said Friday that his recent comment that Cuba's economic model did not work was badly understood and that what he really meant was that capitalism did not work. Mr. Castro, speaking at the University of Havana, said his words had been misinterpreted by his interviewer, Jeffrey Goldberg of Atlantic magazine. Mr. Goldberg wrote in a blog on Wednesday that he had asked Mr. Castro, 84, if Cuba's model was still worth exporting to other countries. ''The Cuban model doesn't even work for us anymore,'' Mr. Castro told him. Mr. Castro confirmed that he said those words ''without bitterness or concern.'' But, he said, ''the reality is that my response means exactly the opposite.'' He continued, ''My idea, as the whole world knows, is that the capitalist system now doesn't work either for the United States or the world, driving it from crisis to crisis, which are each time more serious.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



304 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cuts May Prove Better for Politicians Than for Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
With Congressional midterm elections looming, the financial debate in Washington this fall will probably be consumed by one incendiary and expensive issue: whether, and how, to extend the multitrillion-dollar Bush tax cuts.
President Obama is advocating a mixed bag of tax proposals. He wants to extend the cuts for all but the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans and offer businesses hundreds of billions in breaks and write-offs intended to encourage investment and hiring.
Republicans, and a few Democrats, assert that the Bush tax cuts should be extended for everyone, warning that a tax increase right now, even if limited to the highest income bracket, would hurt small businesses and choke off an economic recovery that is already gasping.
Given the economy's persistent weakness and an unemployment rate hovering above 9.5 percent, those arguments have gained traction. And because another round of government stimulus spending is considered politically unviable even if it were warranted, the debate over the tax cuts will be laced with promises to spur economic activity and reduce unemployment. The concept of lower taxes is so appealing to voters that many embrace them as an economic cure-all. 
But economic research suggests that tax cuts, though difficult for politicians to resist in election season, have limited ability to bolster the flagging economy because they are essentially a supply-side remedy for a problem caused by lack of demand.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office this year analyzed the short-term effects of 11 policy options and found that extending the tax cuts would be the least effective way to spur the economy and reduce unemployment. The report added that tax cuts for high earners would have the smallest ''bang for the buck,'' because wealthy Americans were more likely to save their money than spend it.
The office gave higher marks to the proposal, now embraced by President Obama, to allow small businesses to write off 100 percent of their investment costs.
Neither of those options, though, would do as much to stimulate the economy as offering direct payments to the unemployed and Social Security recipients or reducing the payroll taxes of workers, the study found. But those proposals -- as well as aid to states and municipalities -- are considered politically untenable with many elected officials reluctant to even utter the word ''stimulus'' after the $787 billion stimulus.
So while the decision on whether to extend the tax cuts will have a lasting impact on the deficit and on how the nation's tax burden is distributed, economists and tax experts say it is unlikely to offer much immediate relief for high unemployment and sluggish growth.
''It may have some small impact along the margins, but firms don't hire based on tax breaks; they hire based on demand,'' said Roberton Williams, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. ''So a lot of the tax breaks are likely to be rewarding people and companies for that they were going to do anyway.''
When they were signed into law in 2001 and 2003, the huge package of income and capital gains tax reductions that became known as the Bush tax cuts were hailed as a way distribute the government surplus and promote long-term economic growth. Mr. Bush was so confident in their power to generate business growth and revenue that he predicted they would enable the government to pay down $1 trillion in debt in just four years.
Those surpluses have now become crushing deficits because of a combination of factors, including the recession, the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Medicare prescription drug benefit, and the $1.7 trillion in forgone revenue from the tax cuts themselves.
The specter of a ballooning national debt has led even some of the early supporters of the cuts, including the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan, to advocate letting them expire.
Republicans, however, argue that it is essential that they be extended, because taking money out of an economy this frail would derail any hope of a robust recovery.
''We don't think taxes ought to be increased in the middle of a recession for anyone,'' Senator Mitch McConnell, the minority leader from Kentucky, said this summer.
The Obama administration dismisses that argument, saying that nearly a third of the cost of the cuts -- more than $700 billion during the next decade -- would go to the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans.
''They are essentially arguing that we add $700 billion to the deficit in return for $35 billion in what has been found to be the least effective means of stimulus,'' said Jason Furman, a deputy assistant to the president overseeing economic policy.
Mr. Obama's proposal would preserve the tax cuts for families that earn less than $250,000 a year (or individuals who make less than $200,000) at a cost of $2.8 trillion over the next decade.
Rather than continuing the breaks for the wealthy, however, Mr. Obama proposes an assortment of tax cuts to encourage business investment and hiring. While he has carefully avoided calling his plan a stimulus, Mr. Obama is calling for a permanent extension of the research and development tax credit for businesses and a change that would allow companies to write off 100 percent of any investments made through 2011.
The president has also called for the creation of a $50 billion infrastructure bank to improve roads, airports and railways, which would stoke business and hiring in the moribund construction industry.
Those plans have received mixed reviews from business groups and economists.
R. Glenn Hubbard, an economist who helped write the Bush tax cuts, said Mr. Obama's proposals borrow heavily from Republican ideas but would have little impact on business activity.
''Nothing in the administration's program is good stimulus,'' said Mr. Hubbard, now dean of the Columbia Business School. ''Investment incentives coupled with a tax increase are not going to get the economy moving.''
But Kevin A. Hassett, an economist at the conservative American Enterprise Institute, predicts the business tax breaks might be enough to reignite the economy and increase investment by 5 to 10 percent. Because some investors and business owners have viewed Mr. Obama's policies as antibusiness, he said, the very fact that the president is offering the tax incentives could also help to encourage investment.
''I think at some point Americans are going to finally accept that the worst is behind us and that we're ready to boom again,'' Mr. Hassett said. ''And this is the kind of proposal that could change the psychology and create the positive momentum we need to really get out of this malaise.''
One curious omission in the Obama plan is the tax cut proposal that many, including the Congressional Budget Office, believe would do the most to spur hiring: a payroll tax holiday. According to various news reports, Obama economic advisers passed on the idea because they feared it would be too expensive or would deprive Social Security and Medicare of crucial revenue. Administration officials declined to discuss their decision.
Whatever Congress and the administration ultimately decide about extending the Bush cuts, however, the narrow confines of the debate show how successful antitax groups have been in defining the terms used to discuss tax policy. Since the tax protests of the 1980s, elected officials have increasingly used tax breaks to finance social programs and business subsidies, and today the cost of those ''tax expenditures'' is $1.2 trillion -- about 25 percent of all spending.
Edward D. Kleinbard, former chief of staff of the bipartisan Joint Committee on Taxation, said the reliance on tax expenditures had distorted the budget process because it induced the public to overlook the fact that -- unless they are accompanied by spending reductions -- tax cuts have the same effect on the deficit as additional spending. It also allows politicians to make unsubstantiated claims about the power of tax-cutting to accomplish other economic goals, he said.
''The thought that tax cuts pay for themselves or that tax cuts alone can turn around this economy is magical thinking,'' said Mr. Kleinbard, now a law professor at the University of Southern California. ''The debate has become so unrealistic it makes you want to scream.''
Online Correction: September 10, 2010, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the cost of preserving the Bush tax cuts for families that earn less than $250,000 a year (or individuals who earn less than $200,000). It is $2.8 trillion over a decade, not $1.8 trillion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: R. GLENN HUBBARD, who shaped the Bush tax cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN HILGER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 KEVIN A. HASSETT, an economist at a conservative institute. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); CORPORATE TAX (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



305 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Net Neutrality

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Struggle for What We Already Have'' (Talking Business, Sept. 4): 
Joe Nocera's column doesn't mention the half-dozen or so known instances of cable and wireless companies disfavoring certain Internet applications and Web sites as well as the express intention of many of those companies to provide an Internet ''fast lane'' for those who pay and a ''slow lane'' for those who don't.
Moreover, he disregards the consequences from the government's failure to provide reasonable rules of the road protecting consumers from corporate misdeeds. Under his logic, we didn't need rules limiting offshore drilling before the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, or rules protecting consumers from predatory actions by Wall Street bankers before the 2007 financial meltdown because no problems existed before those disasters.
If fighting for rules that ensure that the greatest driver of innovation, creativity, economic growth and democratic discourse doesn't become like a closed cable system makes my organization a ''purist,'' we'll wear that moniker proudly.
Gigi B. Sohn Washington, Sept. 8, 2010
The writer is president and co-founder of Public Knowledge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); OIL SPILLS (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); WRITERS (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



306 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Chamber of Commerce Accused of Tax Fraud

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With a war chest rivaling that of the Republican Party itself, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has emerged in the last year as perhaps the Obama administration's most-well-financed rival on signature policy debates like health care and financial regulation.
Critics on the left have long complained about the chamber's outsize influence. But now they are taking on the business association directly, charging in a complaint filed Friday with the Internal Revenue Service that it violated tax codes by laundering millions of dollars meant for charitable work from a group with ties to the insurance giant A.I.G. 
The complaint was brought by a group called U.S. Chamber Watch, which was created four months ago -- with the strong financial backing of labor unions -- to scrutinize the Chamber of Commerce's growing influence and provide a counterbalance.
But chamber officials said they had complied with all tax laws and dismissed the complaint as a political ploy.
A chamber spokeswoman, Tita Freeman, said its opponents ''are desperately looking for opportunities to undermine the chamber's efforts to promote free markets and economic growth.''
The I.R.S. refused to comment on the complaint, citing the confidentiality of taxpayer records.
I.R.S. regulators have often been wary of wading into political grievances, particularly after evidence emerged during the Watergate scandal that the Nixon White House had sought to use the agency for political purposes.
But in recent years the agency has occasionally gotten involved in politically tinged controversies. In one high-profile case in 2004, Republican complaints led it to open an investigation into the N.A.A.C.P.'s tax-exempt status after the group's leader criticized President George W. Bush in a speech. The I.R.S. concluded two years later that the remarks did not violate the group's nonprofit restrictions on political activity.
At issue in the complaint against the Chamber of Commerce is whether the group mixed funds for charitable and noncharitable political purposes in violation of tax codes.
The chamber, often using expensive mass-market radio and TV spots, has weighed in on many major public policy debates in recent months, including the Obama administration's health care policy, business regulations, campaign finance laws and Internet rules, as well as job creation and the threat of tax hikes. On many issues, it has pushed for less government regulation in favor of free-market incentives.
Now the chamber's political arm is turning to the November elections, and it expects to spend $50 million or more to push pro-business candidates, usually Republicans. As part of a wave of new commercials broadcast this week, the chamber's California affiliate attacked Senator Barbara Boxer -- a Democrat running for re-election against Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard -- and accused Ms. Boxer of ''destroying jobs'' by voting against business.
Cyrus Mehri, a Washington lawyer who brought the I.R.S. complaint on behalf of U.S. Chamber Watch, said in an interview that the chamber's current political activities were, in effect, being underwritten with money intended for charitable work.
The complaint focuses on loans and grants totaling about $18 million that were made beginning in 2003 to a nonprofit affiliate, the National Chamber Foundation, by the Starr Foundation, a charity started by the founder of A.I.G. and now led by Maurice R. Greenberg, the insurer's former chairman.
Lawyers for Chamber Watch said their research, based largely on public tax filings, found that none of the principal on some $12 million in loans had been paid back and that the money appeared to have been given to the chamber's foundation for unrestricted use.
The lawyers said that the money, in violation of nonprofit restrictions, was ultimately funneled to the chamber itself and used to finance broader political causes, including support for legal tort reform to shield companies like A.I.G. from liability. Mr. Greenberg himself had worked to promote restrictions on lawsuits, the complaint notes.
''You have millions of dollars improperly going to the chamber,'' said Mr. Mehri, who drafted the complaint with Gail M. Harmon, a Washington lawyer specializing in tax law. ''This is not a technical violation.''
But Stan Harrell, chief financial officer for the Chamber of Commerce, said in an interview Friday that the chamber's lawyers and its accountants at Ernst & Young had reviewed the Starr Foundation funding and found that it complied with all relevant tax law.
''We've never had an issue, period,'' Mr. Harrell said. He said that Chamber Watch, which was created by a federation of five unions called Change to Win, was simply trying to create trouble for the chamber because of its opposing political views.
''That's democracy. From time to time, people make allegations,'' he said. ''If their real interest was proper accounting, they'd be talking to us. This is political.''
Mr. Harrell said that the funding from the Starr Foundation was listed in tax documents as a loan only in the most technical sense and that it was never intended to be paid back. Instead, he said, the money was restricted for long-term use on educational and research projects as part of the chamber's capital plan and was invested by the chamber to ensure the Starr Foundation a set rate of return.
''We wanted to make sure we guaranteed the investment return,'' he said. ''Legally, that has to be represented as a loan. This was all done very scrupulously. If anything, we overdisclosed the transaction'' in the group's federal tax returns, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INSURANCE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (70%); TAX INCREASES (70%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); JOB CREATION (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%); RADIO ADVERTISING (60%); LABOR UNIONS (54%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2010



307 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Building the Bridges to a Sustainable Recovery

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
LAST year's economic stimulus program helped stem a crisis that was poised to rival the Great Depression. That's the conclusion of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, which recently assessed the program's impact.
Now, those stimulus payouts are waning, and are being offset by spending cuts by state and local governments. As a result, a fragile economic recovery is faltering.
Many policy economists from both major political parties agree that additional stimulus would help put the recovery back on track. But many analysts say that growing fears about budget deficits make that step politically unthinkable. 
All the while, however, we're facing vivid examples of failing infrastructure across the country. Clearly, the maintenance and rebuilding of bridges, roads, water systems and the like can't be postponed forever. And the work will never be cheaper to accomplish than right now, when high unemployment and excess capacity have put the opportunity cost of the necessary labor and equipment near zero.
In short, circumstances cry out for an immediate rebuilding effort. President Obama's proposal last week to create a $50 billion infrastructure renewal bank is thus a small but welcome first step.
Europe spends about 5 percent of its annual gross domestic product on infrastructure, while China spends about 9 percent, according to the ''Report Card for America's Infrastructure'' by the American Society of Civil Engineers. In the United States, which spends less than 2.5 percent, chronically deferred maintenance has left the infrastructure in dangerously substandard condition.
More than 25 percent of the nation's bridges, for example, were structurally deficient or obsolete in 2007, according to the Federal Highway Administration.
Many problems have grown worse. The Association of State Dam Safety Officials estimated that 4,404 dams were unsafe or deficient in 2008. That was up from 4,095 in 2007 and 3,500 in 2005.
According to data compiled by the civil engineers' society, planned spending across 15 categories of infrastructure, including aviation, drinking water systems, energy programs, levees, roads, schools and wastewater treatment, will fall short of needed investment by a cumulative total of more than $1.8 trillion in the next five years.
And periodic disasters -- like Hurricane Katrina and the Interstate 35 bridge collapse in Minneapolis -- have continued to remind us that we should not be neglecting these investments.
Deferring maintenance does nothing to alleviate our national indebtedness; in fact, it makes the problem far worse. According to the Nevada Department of Transportation, for instance, rehabilitation of a 10-mile section of I-80 that would cost $6 million this year would cost $30 million in two years, after the road deteriorated further.
If such a project is at all representative, spending an extra $100 billion nationwide on interstate highway maintenance now would reduce the national debt two years from now by several hundred billion dollars, relative to its level if no action were taken.
Some people object that infrastructure spending takes too long to roll out. But many projects could be started immediately. And remarkably low long-term interest rates imply that markets expect several more years of sluggish economic activity, so even projects that take a little longer would still be timely.
But won't this extra spending make the deficit problem worse? A better question is this: Why is anyone worried about short-run deficits in the first place?
Deficits are a long-run problem. Every cent the government borrows must eventually be repaid with interest (or, equivalently, be carried at interest indefinitely), so it's important to pay our bills. Although spending cuts will help, the retirement of millions of baby boomers will also make it necessary to increase revenue.
But not now. With consumer and investment spending remaining far below normal, the short-run imperative is to increase total spending by enough to put everyone back to work as quickly as possible.
Even if we ignore the savings from worthy investments in roads and bridges, additional government spending has a much smaller effect on deficits than is commonly assumed. Conventional economic models estimate that each dollar of deficit-financed stimulus spending will increase the deficit by 40 to 50 cents. But getting the economy back on track more quickly also has many offsetting long-run benefits that those models ignore.
For example, by reducing the number of children who spend part of their formative years in poverty, timely government spending will increase their lifetime earnings trajectories and, as a result, their lifetime tax payments. By improving their health and the health of their parents, such government spending will also reduce demand for costly public services.
SPEEDING the economic recovery also has positive effects on revenue through its effect on capital markets. By increasing investment, it permanently increases the nation's capital stock, causing an upward shift in wages, with corresponding increases in tax revenue. In addition, it increases spending on research and development, causing similar increases in income and revenue. It also increases the ultimate revenue yields from the dividend, capital gains and estate taxes.
Economists have made no systematic attempt to estimate the present value of these effects. But it is clear that many of them are large and long-lived. And because they help avert more costly problems, timely investments in infrastructure may be the most powerful debt-reduction strategy of all.
With the midterm elections looming and deficit hysteria at a fever pitch, it is far from certain that even the president's modest proposal can gain Congressional approval. If it can't, our infrastructure clearly isn't the only thing that needs fixing.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (88%); ENGINEERING (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (74%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (74%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (74%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); WATER QUALITY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); HURRICANES (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



308 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE SEARCH; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Job Satisfaction Vs. a Big Paycheck

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI. 
E-mail: thesearch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DOES earning a higher salary make you happier?
It's an issue that tugs at many of us: the tradeoff between a satisfying job and a satisfying paycheck. Students have to ponder the question when considering a college major or embarking on a career. Workers are concerned about it when weighing a promotion that would bring longer hours and more stress along with higher pay.
In many ways, achieving the right balance depends on one's values, priorities, family obligations and spending habits. But according to a recent study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, there is something of a magic number when it comes to income and happiness. 
Beyond household income of $75,000 a year, money ''does nothing for happiness, enjoyment, sadness or stress,'' the study concluded.
It's not so much that money buys you happiness but that lack of money buys you misery, said Daniel Kahneman, a professor emeritus of psychology at Princeton and one of the authors of the study. ''The lack of money,'' he said, ''no longer hurts you after $75,000.''
Where you live and the cost of living there has only a small influence on that number, he added. (That may be a revelation to some Manhattanites.)
The study, which analyzed Gallup data of 450,000 randomly selected Americans, did find that one's ''life evaluation'' -- a self-assessment of one's life -- continued rising well above $75,000. But this is not the same as experiencing day-to-day happiness.
''Many people want to make a lot of money, but the benefits of having a high income are ambiguous,'' said Professor Kahneman, who is also a Nobel laureate in economics. When you are wealthy you are able to buy more pleasures, he said, but a recent study suggests that wealthier people ''seem to be less able to savor the small things in life.''
That said, some people seem almost hardwired to want to make money. A 2007 article in The Journal of Happiness Studies reported that college freshmen who stated that they wanted a high salary by and large achieved that goal 20 years later. The article said that ''individuals with strong financial aspirations are socially inclined, confident, ambitious, politically conservative, traditional, conventional, and relatively less able academically, but not psychologically distressed.''
People who sought high incomes were more likely to major in things like business, engineering and economics, it said, while people for whom high income was not paramount gravitated toward the liberal arts and social sciences.
''Wanting money is not a recipe for disaster, but wanting money and not getting it -- that's a good recipe for disaster,'' Professor Kahneman said. People who want to become performing artists are likely to be unhappy, because most will fail, he said. Becoming a wealthy rock star is a common dream when you are young, but when you are in college, you should try to take a longer-term view, he said.
These days, of course, many people are worried about whether they will get a job at all, let alone become rock stars. Understandably, the recession is causing more people to place the financial rewards of a career first, said Nicholas Lore, founder of the Rockport Institute, a career coaching firm, and author of ''The Pathfinder.''
But this could backfire as people who initially pursue a field because of the salary realize that the work is unsatisfying. Mr. Lore has recently coached a lawyer who decided to forgo his high pay in favor of teaching law, an investment banker who decided to switch to a green energy company and a dentist who decided to become a schoolteacher.
It all depends on priorities, Mr. Lore said. Some people are willing to make lifestyle changes because the intrinsic rewards of following a passion or making a difference are more important than a high salary in an unenjoyable career, he said.
In the end, people should pursue what they're interested in, said Daniel H. Pink, author of ''Drive: The Surprising Truth About What Motivates Us.'' Looking at lists of careers with the highest salaries tends to be a fool's game, he said.
''It's very hard to game the system, in the sense that situations and conditions change so quickly that a field that is hot today might be only lukewarm in 5 or 10 years,'' he said. ''It might even be nonexistent.''
Let's say you see that accountants are getting decent salaries directly out of college, he said, but you don't really like accounting. ''Chances are you're not going to be very good at accounting,'' and your salary will reflect that, he said. ''Generally, people flourish when they're doing something they like and what they're good at.''
For his part, Mr. Lore said he was concerned that current economic woes might force people into poor career choices.
''I would prefer that the economy was doing better and people were more adventurous because it often has an enormous effect on the quality of their life,'' he said. Many people equate success with a high income, but, ''How can someone say they're successful if they're not happy doing their work? To me, that's not success.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COST OF LIVING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



309 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION NEW JERSEY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Developer Aims At Working Class

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
EAST ORANGE
THE dozen or so rental apartment buildings strung along South Harrison Street here, statuesque beauties dating from the early- to mid-20th century, have seen alternating eras of glory, decline and resurgence.
Now, a walk down sidewalks south of Interstate 280 and the Brick Church train station offers a quick kaleidoscope view evincing all those eras at once: some buildings look scruffy and semi-occupied; others look spruced and full-up. Two abandoned structures with litter- and weed-covered grounds stand hard by the newly opened Indigo 141, an ultramodern rental created via gut-rehabilitation of a formerly empty eyesore.
At six of the structures, Nos. 106, 111, 120, 158, 179 and 243 South Harrison, a new landlord, Adam Mermelstein, said he was aiming for the ''lower middle class.'' That would represent a major step up for the buildings. After bank and Fannie Mae foreclosures against the former landlord, Mr. Mermelstein is grabbing them up, along with his partner in TreeTop Development, Azi Mandel. 
TreeTop is aiming to do with these 430 units what Newark officials have acknowledged it did with 550 units bought in Newark in 2007: ''Provide attractive, secure, and affordable housing in a location that has excellent transit access, helping to renew and stabilize a neighborhood,'' Mr. Mermelstein said.
''We are restoring and upgrading -- but not to luxury level,'' he said. ''Formica, not granite. Ceramic tile, not marble. We are not looking to buck trends here. But everybody has standards of living, and we will be upgrading and maintaining these buildings to meet or exceed anyone's idea of middle-class standards.''
For example, 111 South Harrison Street, an approximately 70-year-old building with 86 apartments, received a new roof, chair railing in its hallways, and new wiring beneath new plaster walls. A pair of tall glass entry doors with custom wrought-iron detail was ordered up to replace metal doors with tiny barred windows that called to mind ''the jailhouse,'' Mr. Mermelstein said.
As was the case in Newark, TreeTop will either refinish or replace hardwood floors in all the East Orange buildings; kitchens and baths are all to be renovated. Each building will have a management office and a full-time superintendent.
Monthly rents will be $900 to $950 for one-bedroom units, and $1,100 to $1,250 for two-bedrooms; that includes heat and hot water, Mr. Mermelstein said. Also, each of the buildings has garage parking, available for $50 a month.
In June, when TreeTop and its investment partner, the Phoenix Realty Group of Manhattan, completed the purchase of the first two buildings on South Harrison -- Nos. 111 and 243 -- 15 to 30 percent of the units were vacant. Some tenants living with broken elevators and leaky ceilings had stopped paying rent, Mr. Mermelstein said.
''But when you do take care of your property,'' he said, ''people start taking care of their property, too. When we were first working on the buildings in Newark, some people put graffiti on the walls. They'd put it up, we'd paint over it. Once that happens three or four times, it stops being fun, I guess, and people stop doing it.
''People who want a rougher atmosphere end up living elsewhere,'' he added.
In Newark, TreeTop and an investment partner spent roughly $3.5 million on upgrades to two big, beaten-down buildings on Martin Luther King Boulevard. Those buildings, 15 to 30 percent vacant for years before takeover, are now fully leased; Newark's deputy mayor for economic development, Stefan Pryor, recently described them as ''housing assets'' for the city.
Mr. Mermelstein, whose company had previously been a developer of condominiums in trendy Hoboken and in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, decided to find a long-term niche in ''turnaround projects involving so-called work force housing,'' he said.
He described the company as intent on ''longevity'' as a landlord, and seeking to attract long-term tenants who feel they are part of a community.
''I'm not saying we will never sell these buildings,'' he said. ''We're developers, and someday there will be more projects. But we expect to hold on to them at least something like 10 years.''
Other developers in the area, including Patrick Morrissy, who runs a nonprofit housing agency called Hands that specializes in turning around neighborhoods in Orange and East Orange, said they saw positive momentum building on South Harrison Street -- although some noted the cyclical rise and fall of real estate conditions there.
Over the past few years, several other buildings have changed hands or been refurbished besides the six in the TreeTop project. East Orange city officials are moving toward designating the area a redevelopment site, Mr. Morrissy said.
The Indigo 141 development was created by Blackstone 360 of Newark. An apartment building at 174 South Harrison was recently renovated by Anthony LaFerrara, whose real estate company is based in Orange.
Correction: October 3, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The ''In the Region'' article in New Jersey and Manhattan copies on Sept. 12, about a developer's effort to rehabilitate a group of apartment buildings in East Orange, misstated the age of 111 South Harrison Street. It was built in 1940, not the early 1920s. The article also misidentified the architectural style of the building. It borrows from several schools of architecture; it is not Art Deco. The second error was repeated in an accompanying picture caption.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FORMER EYESORE: The new owner of the Art Deco-style 111 South Harrison Street in East Orange has restored the building by adding glass-and-iron entry doors, among other things. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); FORECLOSURE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); FLOORING (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2010



310 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Roaring Economy Lifts Prices in China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- For K. K. Lam, a 37-year-old accountant in Guangzhou, inflation means higher prices for pork and for vegetables like bok choy.
For Allen Dong, the sales manager for a home appliance manufacturer 700 miles to the northeast in Ningbo, inflation means trying to persuade retailers to pay more for dehumidifiers so his company can cover rising costs for wages and raw materials.
From street markets to corporate offices, consumers and executives alike in China are trying to cope with rising prices. The National Bureau of Statistics announced on Saturday that consumer prices in China were 3.5 percent higher compared with a year earlier, the largest increase in nearly two years. 
To make matters worse, inflation over the short term also seems to be accelerating. A seasonally adjusted comparison of August prices to July prices showed that inflation was running at an annualized pace closer to 4.8 percent.
Prices are rising in China for reasons that many Americans or Europeans might envy. The economy is growing, stores are full and banks are lending lots of money, according to other statistics released by the government on Saturday. Compared with August of last year, industrial production rose 13.9 percent last month, retail sales increased 18.4 percent, bank lending climbed 18.6 percent and fixed-asset investment surged 24 percent.
All four categories rose slightly more than economists had expected, in the latest sign of the Chinese economy's strength even as recoveries seem to be flagging elsewhere.
Separate data released on Friday by the General Administration of Customs showed that Chinese demand for imports also remained surprisingly strong. The trade surplus narrowed to $20 billion last month, and would have been nearly in balance without China's $18 billion surplus with the United States.
But so much cash in the Chinese economy chasing a limited volume of goods is pushing up prices. Inflation is starting to become troublesome, especially for young people entering the work force and retirees on fixed incomes.
Young people with vocational school degrees typically earn $200 to $300 a month in factories near the coast these days, and somewhat less in the Chinese interior. Rising prices have prompted many to ask for bigger paychecks, and blue-collar incomes have increased faster than inflation.
But salaries for recent college graduates, at $300 to $500 a month in coastal areas, have actually declined in the last few years, even before adjusting for inflation. A rapid expansion of universities over the last decade has resulted in more young men and women with undergraduate degrees than companies are ready to hire, except at lower pay.
And as in many countries, retirees are among the most vulnerable to inflation. Ms. Lam said her own mother lived on a pension of just $150 a month.
Rising wages are putting pressure on companies to increase their prices. Mr. Dong, the sales manager at the Ningbo Deye Domestic Electrical Appliance Technology Company, said the company had to raise wages by 10 percent a year, while raw material costs were also climbing.
''It is impossible to transfer our cost increases entirely to our customers, because if we do so, they will all run away,'' he said. ''We are currently doing a study of our assembly line work processes to see where we can achieve greater efficiency.''
But as the powerful growth in fixed-asset investment last month showed, Chinese companies are still responding to rising prices by building more factories, office buildings and other equipment, instead of cutting back.
Pan Ning, the sales manager at the Newsunda Industries Company, a manufacturer of school bags and pocket calculators based in Shantou, said labor and raw material prices had been climbing by 5 to 10 percent. But as school years have begun around the world in the Northern Hemisphere, Newsunda has been able to raise the prices it charges to cover the increased costs, Ms. Pan said.
Chinese officials have said for many years that they regard 5 percent inflation as unacceptable, and they have shown a willingness to clamp down on bank lending and investment whenever annual increases come close to that level. They have taken some of these steps in recent months, but more recently eased back on lending controls as some Chinese economists suggested that domestic demand might not be as strong as the August data showed.
For now, many Chinese consumers are irked by rising prices for everyday necessities.
''I honestly don't know how young people starting out in the work world manage,'' Ms. Lam said. They pay nearly half their salaries for their own room in a shared apartment in a bad neighborhood, she said, ''and if you add in food and transportation, there will be nothing extra left in your salary to send home.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES MANAGEMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PORK (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (77%); ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES MFG (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (64%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (61%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); COASTAL AREAS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (73%) SOUTH CHINA (91%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



311 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 11280 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Bound and Also Unbound

BYLINE: By STEVEN McELROY

 BODY:
Dates are subject to change.
SEPTEMBER
ME, MYSELF & I When the early days of a new theater season start off with an Edward Albee comedy it's obvious that the bar is being set on the high side. Mr. Albee's delight in language takes the absurdist route here with a pair of identical 28-year-old twins named OTTO and otto (their last name is not Palindrome), and a mother (Elizabeth Ashley), known as Mother, who cannot tell them apart. As the psychiatrist who shares her bed, Brian Murray repeats his 2008 role in the McCarter Theater production in Princeton, N.J. Emily Mann, the theater's artistic chief who directed then, does an encore as well in this New York premiere at Playwrights Horizons. ''Antics with semantics'' is one of the ways Ben Brantley described the work in his 2008 review in The New York Times, adding: ''As befits a play about twins, the idea of double meanings abounds.'' Language and Albee fans, take note. In previews. Opens Sunday. Closes Oct. 31. Playwrights Horizons Mainstage Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton. Ticket Central; playwrightshorizons.org. 
BOTTOM OF THE WORLD As a woman tries to deal with her grief over her sister's death by studying her sibling's last novel, the line between fiction and reality blurs in this new play by Lucy Thurber (''Scarcity''). Caitriona McLaughlin directs the Atlantic Theater Company production. In previews. Opens Tuesday. Closes Oct. 3. Atlantic Theater Company, Stage II, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea. Ticket Central; atlantictheater.org.
NANCE O'NEIL What does the name Lizzie Borden bring to mind? A jingle about a gal who took an ax and gave her mother 40 whacks (and her father 41)? Well, among the lesser-known footnotes in Borden's life is that she was acquitted of those murders in 1893. Another is that she had a close relationship with Nance O'Neil, a popular tragic actress in their day. Were they lovers? No one really knows. But that question is the jumping-off point for David Foley's new play, a production of the Blue Coyote Theater Group. Gary Shrader is the director. In previews. Opens Wednesday. Closes Oct. 9. Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, TriBeCa. Smarttix; bluecoyote.org.
COMPULSION Rinne Groff's play about a man on a mission to bring Anne Frank's diary to the American public was inspired by the life of the driven journalist and screenwriter Meyer Levin, who fought for years for vindication of his rejected stage version of the Anne Frank story. The scripts for ''The Diary of Anne Frank,'' both the 1955 play and the 1959 film, were by the Hollywood screenwriters Albert Hackett and Frances Goodrich, who were recruited after Levin's version was turned down. (Levin's most famous novel, the 1956 ''Compulsion,'' is about the Leopold and Loeb murder case.) The Public Theater is a co-producer with the Berkeley Repertory Theater and Yale Repertory Theater, where the play had its world premiere in February. Oskar Eustis, artistic director of the Public, directs a cast led by Mandy Patinkin, along with a team of marionettes (and puppeteers). At the Public Theater: Feb. 1-March 6. At Berkeley: In previews. Opens Thursday. Closes Oct. 31. Berkeley Repertory Theater, 2025 Addison Street, Berkeley, Calif. (510) 647-2949; berkeleyrep.org.
LIMELIGHT: THE STORY OF CHARLIE CHAPLIN The English comic actor, screenwriter, filmmaker and producer, whose last American movie was the 1952 ''Limelight,'' in which he starred, is the subject of this new musical, with a book by Christopher Curtis and Thomas Meehan (''Hairspray''), and music and lyrics by Mr. Curtis. The show, directed by Michael Unger, tells the story of Chaplin's life (1889-1977), including not only his rise to international fame, but also his fall from grace in the United States, where he had been the target of Hoover's F.B.I. and other government groups in the late 1940s and early '50s because of his left-wing sympathies. His re-entry permit (he was still a British citizen) was revoked when he and his wife, Oona, sailed to Europe in 1952. In previews[9/7]. Opens Sept. 19. Closes Oct. 17. Mandell Weiss Theater, La Jolla Playhouse, 2910 La Jolla Village Drive, San Diego. (858) 550-1010; lajollaplayhouse.org.
DETROITLaurie Metcalf and Ian Barford portray a seemingly contented suburban couple who welcome their new neighbors for a series of barbecues in this new play by Lisa D'Amour, directed by Austin Pendleton. The budding friendship and the host couple's sense of order soon begin to totter in the play, presented by the Steppenwolf Theater Company in Chicago, where the company is celebrating its 35th-anniversary season with a selection of works exploring the public and private aspects of modern life. In previews. Opens Sept. 19. Closes Nov. 7. Steppenwolf Downstairs Theater, 1650 North Halsted Street, Chicago. (312) 335-1650; steppenwolf.org.
THE LITTLE FOXES The avant-garde Flemish director Ivo van Hove, a regular at New York Theater Workshop (this is his sixth production there), will be putting his own spin on Lillian Hellman's 1939 drama about avarice and infighting among a wealthy family of Southerners. Mr. van Hove directs Elizabeth Marvel as Regina -- extending another creative collaboration: she was his Blanche in ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' and Hedda in his ''Hedda Gabler,'' both at the workshop. In previews. Opens Sept. 21. Closes Oct. 31. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village. Ticket Central; nytw.org.
THE DIVINE SISTERCharles Busch's comedy, in which he plays a resolute Mother Superior trying to build a school for her convent, had a developmental run earlier this year at Theater for the New City. The rest of that cast -- Alison Fraser, Julie Halston, Amy Rutberg, Jennifer Van Dyck and Jonathan Walker -- has rejoined Mr. Busch in a show that also pays tribute to famous film nuns (''Agnes of God'' and ''The Singing Nun'' are just two examples). Carl Andress, a frequent Busch collaborator, directs. In previews. Opens Sept. 22. SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village. Theatermania; divinesisteronstage.com.
ORLANDOVirginia Woolf's young man turned immortal woman still lives, now as a stage character in Sarah Ruhl's (''In the Next Room, or the vibrator play'') adaptation of Woolf's 1928 novel. Rebecca Taichman directs the Classic Stage Company production, including Francesca Faridany in the title role and David Greenspan as Queen Elizabeth. The play features music by Christian Frederickson and Ryan Rumery. Annie-B Parson is the choreographer. In previews. Opens Sept. 23. Closes Oct. 17. Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village. Theatermania; classicstage.org.
THROUGH THE NIGHT Daniel Beaty is the sole performer in his play about a group of black men and boys whose lives intersect when they each experience something unexpected on the same night. If the plot sounds familiar, it may be: Mr. Beaty's drama ''Resurrection,'' which had its premiere in a co-production of Arena Stage and Hartford Stage in 2008 and was first presented at Arena Stage, is an earlier version of the same play, though that time the cast numbered six. The solo version, directed by Charles Randolph-Wright, was presented in May at the theater at Riverside Church and is now having an open-ended run. In previews. Opens Sept. 26. Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street. Ticketmaster; danielbeaty.com.
BRIEF ENCOUNTER Those who missed this tale of frustrated, would-be lovers at St. Ann's Warehouse in Brooklyn last year can now catch it on Broadway, presented by the Roundabout Theater Company. The production by the Kneehigh Theater Company of Cornwall, England, was adapted and is directed by the troupe's artistic director, Emma Rice, from the 1945 film and the Noel Coward one-act ''Still Life,'' on which the movie was based. The story of a man and a woman, married to others, who meet at a train station and fall in love, is told with remade film footage and live action. In previews. Opens Sept. 28. Closes Dec. 5. Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, Manhattan. (212) 719-1300; roundabouttheatre.org.
LEAP OF FAITHRaul Esparza and Brooke Shields head the cast of this new show, with music by Alan Menken (''Little Shop of Horrors,'' ''The Little Mermaid,'' among others). Based on the 1992 movie starring Steve Martin, it's about a con artist with a spiritual crisis and a woman who challenges him. The book is by Janus Cercone (who wrote the screenplay) and Glenn Slater, with lyrics by Mr. Slater. Rob Ashford directs and choreographs. In previews. Opens Oct. 3. Closes Oct. 24. Ahmanson Theater at the Music Center, 135 North Grand Avenue, Los Angeles. (213) 628-2772; centertheatregroup.org.
MRS. WARREN'S PROFESSIONCherry Jones stars as the brothel-owning title character and former prostitute in a revival of George Bernard Shaw's 1893 drama about a mother-daughter relationship that unravels when the mom's occupation is revealed. Sally Hawkins, making her Broadway debut, plays the daughter who doesn't understand that her mother did what she had to do to survive -- and to send her daughter to Cambridge. Doug Hughes directs the Roundabout Theater Company production. In previews. Opens Oct. 3. Closes Nov. 28. American Airlines Theater, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan. (212) 719-1300; roundabouttheatre.org.
THE PITMEN PAINTERS A hit in London two years ago, this play by Lee Hall (''Billy Elliot''), inspired by a book by William Feaver, is about a group of 1930s miners who learn to express themselves through art, and it turns out to be very good art. It comes to Broadway with the original cast and director, Max Roberts, in this Manhattan Theater Club production. Previews begin Tuesday. Opens Sept. 30. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; manhattantheatreclub.com.
ANGELS IN AMERICA: A GAY FANTASIA ON NATIONAL THEMES The Signature Theater Company, which devotes each season to the work of one playwright, will celebrate Tony Kushner this season, starting with a revival of his epic work about political and personal aspects of the early days of the AIDS crisis. The two parts of ''Angels'' -- ''Millennium Approaches'' and ''Perestroika'' -- will run in repertory, with Michael Greif directing a cast that includes Christian Borle, Zachary Quinto, Zoe Kazan and Frank Wood. Previews begin Tuesday. Opens Oct. 28. Closes Jan. 30. Signature Theater Company at the Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton. (212) 244-7529; signaturetheatre.org. The Signature season will also include Mr. Kushner's new play (first seen last year at the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis), ''The Intelligent Homosexual's Guide to Capitalism and Socialism With a Key to the Scriptures'' (March 22-June 12), also directed by Mr. Greif, in a co-production with the Public Theater (to be presented there); and ''The Illusion,'' Mr. Kushner's adaptation of the 17th-century French comedy by Pierre Corneille, directed by Michael Mayer (April 19-June 18).
THE GREAT GAME: AFGHANISTAN This ambitious three-part study of Western involvement in Afghanistan, from 1842 to the present, consists of a dozen plays by an international group of writers and was first presented by the Tricycle Theater in London in 2009. It will tour the United States this fall, under the direction of Nicolas Kent, the artistic director of Tricycle, and Indhu Rubasingham. Washington: Shakespeare Theater Company, Wednesday-Sept. 25, Sidney Harman Hall, 610 F Street, NW, (202) 547-1122, shakespearetheatre.org; Minneapolis: Guthrie Theater, Sept. 29-Oct. 17, McGuire Proscenium Stage, 818 South Second Street, (612) 377-2224, guthrietheater.org; Berkeley, Calif.: Berkeley Repertory Theater, Oct. 22-Nov. 7, Roda Theater, 2025 Addison Street, (510) 647-2949, berkeleyrep.org; New York: Public Theater, in association with the Skirball Center at New York University, Dec. 1-19, Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village. Theatermania; skirballcenter.nyu.edu.
ORANGE, HAT & GRACE In this Gothic romance by Gregory S. Moss (''punkplay''), a woman nearing the end of her life reassesses her existence. Sarah Benson (''Blasted'') directs the first production of the new season at Soho Rep, where she is the artistic director. This playwright-director collaboration will continue in November when Ms. Benson directs another play by Mr. Moss at the Woolly Mammoth Theater in Washington (Nov. 1-28; woollymammoth.net). That work, ''House of Gold,'' is a dark comedy about a murdered child beauty pageant winner -- based on JonBenet Ramsey -- who comes back to life and tries to understand what happened to her. For ''Orange'': Previews begin Wednesday. Opens Sept. 23. Closes Oct. 10. Soho Rep, 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa. Theatermania; sohorep.org.
WE HAVE ALWAYS LIVED IN THE CASTLE Yale Repertory Theater is offering a first look at a new musical with book and lyrics by Adam Bock and music and lyrics by Todd Almond, based on the 1962 novel by Shirley Jackson. The dark tale is about a woman acquitted of a terrible crime and the devoted sister who protects her ... until a handsome cousin comes calling. Anne Kauffman, who directed Mr. Bock's ''Thugs,'' is the director. (Mr. Bock's play ''A Small Fire,'' about a woman gradually losing each of her senses, will be presented at Playwrights Horizons from Dec. 10 through Jan. 16.) For ''Castle'': Previews begin Friday[9/17]. Opens Sept. 23. Closes Oct. 9. Yale Repertory Theater, University Theater, 222 York Street, New Haven. (203) 432-1234; yalerep.org.
THE SNEEZE Two master comic writers meet in Michael Frayn's 1988 adaptation of several Chekhov short stories and plays. J. R. Sullivan will direct this season opener for the Pearl Theater Company, where he took over as artistic director last year. Previews begin Friday[9/17]. Opens Sept. 26. Closes Oct. 31. New York City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan. (212) 581-1212; pearltheatre.org.
OFFICE HOURS At a large university in 1974, when administrators are considering the elimination of the Great Books curriculum, teachers and students debate the proper course of education in this new play by A. R. Gurney, to be performed by the Bats, the resident acting company at the Flea Theater. Jim Simpson, the Flea's artistic director, will direct. Previews begin Saturday. Sept. 18 Opens Sept. 30. Closes Oct. 24. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa. Theatermania; theflea.org.
BLOODY BLOODY ANDREW JACKSON After a successful run at the Public Theater (where it was extended three times), this emo-rock musical about Potus No. 7 is headed to Broadway. The show will mark the first directing credit on Broadway for Alex Timbers, who will get his second soon after, with ''The Pee-wee Herman Show'' (see below). Mr. Timbers also wrote the book for ''Bloody,'' which has music and lyrics by Michael Friedman. Benjamin Walker does an encore as the title character. Previews begin Sept. 20. Opens Oct. 13. Bernard Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; bloodybloodyandrewjackson.com.
IN TRANSIT Rock and pop have been featured in a lot of new musicals lately, but here comes a show headed in a different direction -- a cappella. The book, music and lyrics are by Kristen Anderson-Lopez, James-Allen Ford, Russ Kaplan and Sara Wordsworth, and Joe Calarco is the director of this Primary Stages production. An ensemble of seven actors in multiple roles will deliver all the music for the story, inspired by the sounds of the city, about a diverse group of New York inhabitants. Previews begin Sept. 21. Opens Oct. 12. Closes Oct. 30. Primary Stages at 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan. Ticket Central; primarystages.org.
A LIFE IN THE THEATER The first Broadway production of David Mamet's 1977 drama about the relationship between two actors, one at the beginning of his career (T. R. Knight) and one closing in on the end (Patrick Stewart), will be directed by Neil Pepe, who performed the same function with the recent Broadway revival of Mr. Mamet's ''Speed-the-Plow.'' Previews begin Sept. 21. Opens Oct. 12. Closes Jan. 2. Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; broadwaysbestshows.com.
JET LAG This 1998 work by the Builders Association was conceived in collaboration with Elizabeth Diller and Ricardo Scofidio, of the New York design studio Diller Scofidio & Renfro. It employs multimedia effects to tell two tragic stories, based on real events, that consider the uses, abuses and isolating effects of technology. Presented in New York at the Kitchen in 2000, the show was innovative then in its use of video and computer animation, and the questions raised are certainly timely today. This revival was commissioned by the folks behind the Peak Performances series at Montclair State University in New Jersey and is directed (as it was initially) by Marianne Weems, the artistic director of the Builders Association. Sept. 23-Oct. 3. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112; peakperfs.org.
TIME STANDS STILLLaura Linney, Brian d'Arcy James and Eric Bogosian will revisit the roles they played on Broadway in the Manhattan Theater Club production of Donald Margulies's drama about an injured war photographer (Ms. Linney); her partner (Mr. d'Arcy James), a foreign correspondent; and her friend and former lover (Mr. Bogosian). Earlier this year, the limited engagement was well received and earned two Tony nominations, for Ms. Linney and for the play. Joining the cast now is Christina Ricci, making her Broadway debut as the girlfriend of Mr. Bogosian's character. Daniel Sullivan directs once again. Previews begin Sept. 23. Opens Oct. 7. Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; TimeStandsStillonBroadway.com.
LA BETE This Moliere-inspired comedy in rhyming couplets by David Hirson closed after only 25 performances when it ran on Broadway in 1991. (But it was nonetheless nominated for five Tony Awards.) Might the show fare better this time? Having Matthew Warchus (''God of Carnage'') as a director can't hurt. The London transfer stars Joanna Lumley, David Hyde Pierce and Mark Rylance, whose performance was praised by Matt Wolf in The International Herald Tribune. (''You have to wonder if this deceptively elfin figure is not simply the most fearless actor around.'') Mr. Hyde Pierce and Mr. Rylance play mismatched theatrical antagonists, one a highbrow playwright and the other (Mr. Rylance), a lowbrow clown and ''the beast'' of the title. Previews begin Sept. 23. Opens Oct. 14. Closes Feb. 13. Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; labetetheplay.com.
LOMBARDI This new play starring Dan Lauria as Vince Lombardi, the legendary football coach, is not entirely about football. Based on the book ''When Pride Still Mattered: A Life of Vince Lombardi,'' by David Maraniss, the play by Eric Simonson is a study of a man more complicated than the stereotypical win-at-all-costs coach. Thomas Kail (''In the Heights'') will direct a cast that includes Judith Light, Keith Nobbs and Bill Dawes. Previews begin Sept. 23. Opens Oct. 21. Circle in the Square Theater, 235 West 50th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; lombardibroadway.com.
THE LANGUAGE ARCHIVE A linguist (Matt Letscher) in Julia Cho's play, mired in preserving dying languages, cannot communicate with his wife (Heidi Schreck) or notice that his assistant (Betty Gilpin) is smitten with him. The Roundabout Theater Company commission won the 2010 Susan Smith Blackburn Prize, presented to an outstanding new English-language play written by a woman, and had its world premiere earlier this year at South Coast Rep. Mark Brokaw directed then and will now, this time with a cast that also includes Jayne Houdyshell and John Horton. Previews begin Sept. 24. Opens Oct. 17. Closes Dec. 19. Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan. (212) 719-1300; roundabouttheatre.org.
GATZ An office worker starts reading aloud from a copy of ''The Great Gatsby'' and goes on to read the entire book over the next six and a half hours. But is he reading it or is the story controlling him? The Elevator Repair Service production stars Scott Shepherd (who had the title role in the Wooster Group's ''Hamlet'' in 2007) and is being presented by the Public Theater. It is the first New York appearance of the show, first presented in Brussels in 2006 and, more recently, at the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge, Mass. John Collins is the director. Previews begin Sept. 26. Opens Oct. 6. Closes Nov. 14. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village. (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org.
NEW YORK MUSICAL THEATER FESTIVAL ''Without You,'' with book and lyrics by Anthony Rapp, based on his book ''Without You: A Memoir of Love, Loss, and the Musical Rent,'' is among the highlights in this annual celebration of musical theater that has, since it began in 2004, introduced us to ''Next to Normal,'' ''[title of show],'' ''Yank,'' ''Altar Boyz'' and other shows that have had subsequent productions. Mr. Rapp, the original Mark in ''Rent,'' stars in his autobiographical solo show, with music by John Keaney, David Matos, Joe Pisapia and Mr. Rapp, along with some songs from ''Rent,'' with music and lyrics by Jonathan Larson. Steve Maler is the director. In addition to more than two dozen new musicals -- ''Show Choir! The Musical'' and ''Jay Alan Zimmerman's Incredibly Deaf Musical'' (Mr. Zimmerman, who is deaf, wrote the book, music and lyrics) among them -- the festival also includes concerts, developmental presentations and special events in several Midtown locations. Sept. 27-Oct. 17. Theatermania; nymf.org.
MICROCRISIS A crooked investment banker tries to run a scam and ends up wreaking havoc on the global economy in this new play by Michael Lew. (It's a comedy.) Ralph Pena will direct the production of Ma-Yi Theater Company, where he is the artistic director. Previews begin Sept. 28. Opens Oct. 5. Closes Oct. 24. Here Arts Center, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village. Theatermania; here.org.
HOTEL SAVOY The one-on-one theatrical experience -- when an audience member enters into a solo encounter with a play -- seems to be proliferating. Ben Brantley and Felicia R. Lee wrote about this fad recently in The Times, discussing productions in both London and New York. Performance Space 122 is getting in on the action with ''Hotel Savoy,'' to be presented not at the theater's East Village home but in a co-production with the Goethe-Institut at the latter's Upper East Side building. The show was created by the writer-director Dominic Huber and his Danish theater company, Blendwerk. Audience members will enter one at a time for a journey through a fictional hotel peopled by past employees. Yikes. Sept. 30-Oct. 31. Goethe-Institut, 1014 Fifth Avenue, between 82nd and 83rd Streets, Manhattan. Theatermania, ps122.org.
OCTOBER
PUSS IN BOOTS (EL GATO CON BOTAS) Adults are likely to appreciate this opera as much as the children they have in tow, when the director Moises Kaufman and his Tectonic Theater Company combine forces with the Gotham Chamber Opera and Blind Summit Theater, a London puppet theater company, for this New Victory production. The opera by the Catalan composer Xavier Montsalvatge, based on the fairy tale about an industrious cat who helps his owner find fortune, will be performed by a cast of five singers and a lot of puppets. Neil Goren, the founder of the Gotham Chamber Opera, is the conductor. Oct. 2-10. New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan. (646) 223-3010; newvictory.org.
THE HUMAN SCALE The Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter, playwright and performer Lawrence Wright, whose last play, ''My Trip to Al-Qaeda,'' ran Off Broadway in 2007, has developed a new solo show. Again using one of his essays from The New Yorker, where he is a staff writer, this time Mr. Wright takes a probing look at the crisis in Gaza in a work based on his essay ''Captives.'' Oskar Eustis, the artistic director of the Public Theater, will direct, and the Public is producing with the 3LD Art & Technology Center. Previews begin Oct. 2. Opens Oct. 7. Closes Oct. 31. 3LD Art & Technology Center, 80 Greenwich Street, Lower Manhattan. (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org.
WOMEN ON THE VERGE OF A NERVOUS BREAKDOWNLincoln Center Theater has assembled an impressive cast for this musical, based on the acclaimed 1988 film by Pedro Almodovar. Patti LuPone, Brian Stokes Mitchell, Sheri Rene Scott and Laura Benanti are among those who will appear in the farcical tale, set in Madrid, about a group of women and their romantic entanglements. Justin Guarini, an ''American Idol'' runner-up from the first season of the popular television show, will be making his Broadway debut in the production, directed by Bartlett Sher and created by Jeffrey Lane (book) and David Yazbek (music and lyrics), both alums of the 2005 Broadway musical ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels'' (adapted from the 1988 film). Previews begin Oct. 2. Opens Nov. 4. Closes Jan. 23. Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; lct.org.
THE DEER HOUSE This self-referential look at the dangers a troupe of performers face when traveling the world for art's sake is by the international multidisciplinary group known as Needcompany. Prompted by the true story of a journalist -- the brother of Tijen Lawton, a company member, who was killed while on assignment in Kosovo -- the show employs music, dance and drama to weave its harrowing tale. Written, directed and designed by Jan Lauwers, Needcompany's artistic director, it is the first theater installment (Oct. 5-9) in the annual Next Wave Festival (Sept. 21-Dec. 19) at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Other Next Wave theater productions include ''Persephone'' (Oct. 26-30), a new work from the Ridge Theater, with a book by Warren Leight, music by Ben Neill and Mimi Goese and lyrics by Ms. Goese, and starring Julia Stiles as the unhappy Queen of the Underworld of Greek mythology; and ''Throne of Blood'' (Nov. 10-13), a stage adaptation of Akira Kurosawa's 1957 film based on Shakespeare's ''Macbeth,'' adapted and directed by Ping Chong and featuring an acting company from the Oregon Shakespeare Festival. BAM Harvey Theater (''Deer House'' and ''Persephone''), 651 Fulton Street; Howard Gilman Opera House (''Throne of Blood''), 30 Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn. (718) 636-4100; bam.org.
THREE WOMEN The poet Sylvia Plath wrote a radio play about three pregnant women who have different experiences during childbirth (a traditional birth, a miscarriage and one who gives her child up for adoption). Staged last year in London by the theater company Inside Intelligence, the production comes to New York by way of 59E59 Theaters. Robert Shaw, the artistic director of Inside Intelligence, is the director. In honor of Plath's birthday (Oct. 27), 59E59 Theaters has fashioned a minifest that includes ''Wish I Had a Sylvia Plath'' by Edward Anthony. ''Wish'' is a solo show starring Elisabeth Gray and directed by Anthony Wilks, produced by New Umbrella, a North Carolina theater company. Ms. Gray plays Esther Greenwood, the heroine of Plath's novel,only novel ''The Bell Jar,'' and in Mr. Anthony's play, the character tries to combine the elements of her life -- memories and fantasies -- into the perfect poem. Oct. 5-31. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan. Ticket Central; 59E59.org.
WINGS John Doyle, he of the stripped-down-to-the-exciting-essence musicals (''Sweeney Todd,'' ''Company''), will direct a revival of this 1978 drama by Arthur Kopit, about a 1920s female wing walker -- a daredevil who strolls on the wings of planes in flight -- who is recovering from a stroke. Jan Maxwell heads up a cast that also includes Teagle F. Bougere, Beth Dixon, January LaVoy, Anne L. Nathan and Michael Warner. Previews begin Oct. 5. Opens Oct. 24. Closes Nov. 21. Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton. (212) 246-4422; 2st.com.
NO PLACE CALLED HOME Traveling in Jordan, Lebanon and Syria with the organization Intersections International to interview Iraqi refugees, an American woman falls in love with one of them. Kim Schultz's play is based on her experience as one of a group of artists working to raise awareness about the plight of refugees. She tells her unlikely love story in a solo show, directed by Sarah Cameron Sunde, that includes music by Amikaeyla Proudfoot Gaston. The producers are Intersections International with the Epic Theater Ensemble in collaboration with the Wild Project, 3LD Art & Technology Center and the Cell. Whew. Fittingly for a play about displaced people, ''No Place Called Home'' will be presented in a run involving at least three theaters (others may be added). At the Wild Project, 195 East Third Street, East Village (Oct. 6-10); at 3LD Art & Technology Center, 80 Greenwich Street, Lower Manhattan (Oct. 13-17); at the Cell, 338 West 23rd Street, Chelsea (Oct. 27-31). Smarttix; noplacecalledhome.com.
ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA John Douglas Thompson wowed the critics with his Othello in 2009 for Theater for a New Audience. This summer he played the title role in ''Richard III'' at Shakespeare & Company in Lenox, Mass. In his review in The Times, Ben Brantley called Mr. Thompson's Richard ''ambition incarnate,'' noting that in the last several years he has ''in startlingly short order established himself as a major classical actor.'' Next on his list of daunting Shakespearean characters comes Antony, the Roman general who falls in love with the Queen of Egypt, in a production by the Hartford Stage Company. (Next spring, Mr. Thompson will also play Macbeth, the Scottish thane steeped in blood en route to the king's crown. That Theater for a New Audience production, directed by Arin Arbus -- who did the honors with ''Othello'' -- will run from March 12 through April 22; tfana.org). In Hartford, Kate Mulgrew will portray Cleopatra, and Tina Landau directs. Oct. 7-Nov. 7. Hartford Stage Company, 50 Church Street. (860) 527-5151; hartfordstage.org.
DRIVING MISS DAISY Two theatrical titans, James Earl Jones and Vanessa Redgrave, will star in the Broadway premiere of Alfred Uhry's 1989 drama about a white Southern widow, her black chauffeur and the unlikely friendship that develops between them. The guy playing Miss Daisy's son, who hires the driver, isn't exactly a slouch either. That would be Boyd Gaines, the one with the four Tony Awards. David Esbjornson is the director. Previews begin Oct. 7. Opens Oct. 25. Closes Jan. 29. John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street. Telecharge; daisyonbroadway.com.
SPIRIT CONTROL Henry Wishcamper (''Port Authority'') will direct a new play by Beau Willimon (''Farragut North'') about an air-traffic controller whose life is altered when he is called on to help a passenger fly a plane and make an emergency landing. Previews begin Oct. 7. Opens Oct. 26. Closes Dec. 5. Manhattan Theater Club at City Center, Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212; manhattantheatreclub.com.
THE SCOTTSBORO BOYS This Kander and Ebb musical recounts the true story, in the style of a minstrel show, of nine black teenagers falsely accused of rape in 1931. It is making its Broadway bow following a premiere at the Vineyard Theater earlier this year and a regional run at the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis, where it is on through Sept. 25. Like ''Curtains'' and ''All About Us,'' it is another musical that the composer John Kander completed after the death in 2004 of Fred Ebb, his longtime lyricist-collaborator. The book is by David Thompson (''Steel Pier''), and the director/choreographer is Susan Stroman (''The Producers''). Most of the Off Broadway cast from the Vineyard, including John Cullum and Colman Domingo, will appear in the Broadway version. Previews begin Oct. 7. Opens Oct. 31. Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; scottsboromusical.com.
PRISCILLA QUEEN OF THE DESERT Tony Sheldon, Nick Adams and Will Swenson will star in the North American premiere of this flashy musical based on the 1994 film about three transvestite friends traversing the Australian outback. Mr. Sheldon is reprising the role (Bernadette) that he played in London and that garnered him an Olivier Award nomination and some critical praise (though critics were less taken with the overall production). Broadway plans for next spring are reportedly in the works. The musical, which had its world premiere in Australia in 2006, was written by Stephan Elliott and Allan Scott and is directed by Simon Phillips. The music comes from an eclectic pop-disco songbook. Previews begin Oct. 12. Opens Oct. 26. Closes Nov. 28. Princess of Wales Theater, 300 King Street West, Toronto. (800) 461-3333; princess-of-wales-theatre.com.
BANISHED CHILDREN OF EVE New York City during the Civil War is the setting for this play by Kelly Younger, adapted from the historical novel by Peter Quinn about a diverse group of city dwellers on the eve of the draft riots of 1863. Ciaran O'Reilly (''The Emperor Jones'') is the director. Previews begin Oct. 13. Opens Oct. 24. Closes Dec. 5. Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea. (212) 727-2737; irishrep.org.
MIDDLETOWN When Mary Swanson (Heather Burns) moves to a seemingly ordinary small town in middle America, in this new play by Will Eno, she befriends a local (Linus Roache) and soon discovers the place is far more mysterious beneath the surface than it first appeared. Georgia Engel, best known as the ditzy Georgette of ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show,'' is also among the cast. Ken Rus Schmoll directs. Previews begin Oct. 13. Opens Nov. 3. Closes Nov. 21. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Manhattan. (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org.
THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR A production of this bawdy comedy about Sir John Falstaff trying to woo a couple of women who are wise to his wiles, currently running at Shakespeare's Globe in London, will be making two stops in the United States this fall. Directed by Christopher Luscombe, the remounting of the Globe's 2008 production heads to Los Angeles and New York. In Los Angeles: Oct. 14-24, Eli and Edythe Broad Stage, 1310 11th Street, Santa Monica, Calif. (310) 434-3200; thebroadstage.com. In New York: Oct. 28-Nov. 7, Michael Schimmel Center for the Performing Arts at Pace University, Three Spruce Street, east of Park Row, Lower Manhattan. Theatermania; www.pace.edu/culture.
RAIN -- A TRIBUTE TO THE BEATLES In yet another incarnation of the jukebox musical we dispense with the story part and go with a straight-up tribute band on Broadway. Given that the Beatles are being channeled here, no one is likely to be too put out. Joey Curatolo (Paul), Joe Bithorn (George), Ralph Castelli (Ringo) and Steve Landes (John) star as the Fab Four (Mark Lewis provides additional keyboards and percussion) in this multimedia concert that includes the familiar music along with some historical footage. Previews begin Oct. 19. Opens Oct. 26. Closes Jan. 2. Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. Ticketmaster; raintribute.com.
IN THE WAKE In Lisa Kron's play, Ellen (Marin Ireland) invites family and friends to Thanksgiving dinner in 2000, when the disputed Bush vs. Gore presidential election results remained unresolved, and finds that tension fills the day -- and the next eight years. In this New York premiere, Ms. Kron's frequent collaborator, Leigh Silverman, will direct. Previews begin Oct. 19. Opens Nov. 1. Closes Nov. 21. Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village. (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org.
THE MERCHANT OF VENICEAl Pacino stars as Shylock in this Broadway transfer of the Shakespeare play presented by the Public Theater at the Delacorte in Central Park this summer. The production, now to be presented by the Public and commercial interests, and again directed by Daniel Sullivan, received strong reviews in the park, with crowds lined up to see Mr. Pacino. It is likely to be just as hard to get a ticket on Broadway -- this will be a limited run. Previews begin Oct. 19. Opens Nov. 7. Closes Jan. 9. Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, Manhattan, Telecharge; merchantonbroadway.com.
AFTER THE REVOLUTION Following a summer premiere at the Williamstown Theater Festival, this play by Amy Herzog, about a family of leftist radicals comes to New York in a Playwrights Horizons production. The play focuses on Emma, the youngest of three generations. When the family learns something disturbing about Emma's late grandfather, who had been blacklisted in the 1950s, Emma reassesses her life, and family loyalty is tested. Carolyn Cantor directs. Oct. 21-Nov. 28. Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Manhattan. Ticket Central; playwrightshorizons.org.
PLAY DEAD Teller, the barely speaking half of the magic-comedy team Penn & Teller, is the creator and director of this new production, arriving just in time for Halloween. While not a traditional play, it involves a solo performance by Todd Robbins, a magician, author and, well, basically a human sideshow known for being able to eat light bulbs. ''Play Dead'' employs illusion in the telling of a scary tale set in an abandoned (and haunted) theater. This one may not be for the easily spooked. Teller and Mr. Robbins are the co-writers. Previews begin Oct. 21. Opens Nov. 10. Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, near West Third Street, Greenwich Village. Ticketmaster; playdeadnyc.com.
A FREE MAN OF COLOR Part sex farce, part history play, this new work by John Guare, set in 1801 New Orleans, will open under the auspices of Lincoln Center Theater almost two years after a planned production was canceled at the Public Theater, which cited economic strictures at the time. Jeffrey Wright will star as Jacques Cornet, the wealthy man of the title. His comfy world in the French-claimed territory will soon be altered, though, when American rule is established through the Louisiana Purchase of 1803. Veanne Cox, Paul Dano and mos (the artist formerly known as Mos Def) are also in the cast. George C. Wolfe is the director. Previews begin Oct. 21. Opens Nov. 18. Closes Jan. 9. Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center. Telecharge; lct.org.
ROALD DAHL'S JAMES AND THE GIANT PEACH The 1961 children's book by a master of the form about a boy, shipped off to live with a pair of evil aunts, who finds solace and some extraordinary friends inside a giant peach, is the basis for this new musical. The book is by Timothy Allen McDonald; music and lyrics by Benj cq Pasek and Justin Paul; and the choreography, fittingly for a surreal tale like this one, is by Pilobolus. Graciela Daniele (''Pal Joey'') will direct the Goodspeed Musicals premiere. Oct. 21-Nov. 21. Norma Terris Theater, 33 North Main Street, Chester, Conn. (860) 873-8668; goodspeed.org.
OKLAHOMA! Following a two-year renovation, the folks at Arena Stage in Washington will soon be singing ''Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin', '' as they inaugurate the new Mead Center for American Theater with this quintessential American musical. The 1943 Rodgers and Hammerstein show will be directed by Molly Smith, the theater's artistic director. Previews begin Oct. 22. Opens Nov. 4. Closes Dec. 26. Arena Stage at the Mead Center for American Theater, 1101 Sixth Street SW, Washington. (202) 488-3300; arenastage.org.
PENELOPE As it did with two recent works by the Irish writer Enda Walsh -- ''The Walworth Farce'' and ''The New Electric Ballroom'' -- St. Ann's Warehouse will host the American premiere of his latest work. ''Penelope,'' inspired by Homer's ''Odyssey,'' is about the last remaining suitors of Odysseus's wife, gathered in an empty swimming pool near her home while her husband is away at war. In Mr. Walsh's absurdist interpretation, the deluded men desperately try to win Penelope's love before Odysseus returns, hoping she will dump her husband for one of them, protecting them from his vengeance. The Druid Theater Company of Galway production is directed by Mikel Murfi. Previews begin Oct 23. Opens Oct. 27. Closes Nov 14. St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Brooklyn. (718) 254-8779; stannswarehouse.org.
THE MEMORANDUM The managing director of a giant corporation is caught in a bureaucratic tangle in this satire by Vaclav Havel, written in the early 1960s and first seen in the United States at the Public Theater in 1968. The production by the Actors Company Theater, purveyors of lesser-known and ought-to-be-remembered works, will be directed by Jenn Thompson. Previews begin Oct. 25. Opens Nov. 4. Closes Nov. 27. Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton. Telecharge; tactnyc.org.
THE PEE-WEE HERMAN SHOW O.K., boys and girls, the bow-tie sporting goofball (a k a Paul Reubens) of your Saturday morning television viewing days of yore is back, this time on Broadway. Based on the stage show (same title) that Mr. Reubens developed in 1980, the new version includes material from the popular television series ''Pee-wee's Playhouse.'' Taking on an utterly different task than his direction of the outre musical ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson'' (see above), Alex Timbers will direct this musical flight of fantasy starring Mr. Reubens, who wrote it with Bill Steinkellner, with additional material by John Paragon. With music by Jay Cotton and puppets by the inimitable Basil Twist. Previews begin Oct. 26. Opens Nov. 11. Closes Jan 2. Stephen Sondheim Theater (the former Henry Miller's Theater), 124 West 43rd Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; peewee.com/broadway.
THE BREAK OF NOON In the midst of a tragic office shooting, in this play by Neil LaBute, a man who survives it sees the face of God and turns from skeptic to believer. Also taking a leap of faith here is David Duchovny, making his professional stage debut in the central role. Amanda Peet will take on two parts: as the main character's wife and the wife's cousin. Mr. LaBute's frequent collaborator, Jo Bonney (''Some Girl(s),'' ''Fat Pig''), will direct the MCC Theater production, Mr. LaBute's seventh work as playwright-in-residence with the company. This is a co-production with the Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles, where the play will run in early 2011. In New York: Previews begin Oct. 28. Opens Nov. 15. Closes Dec. 12. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village. Ticket Central; mcctheater.org. In Los Angeles: Previews begin Jan. 25. Opens Feb. 2. Closes March 6, Geffen Playhouse, 10886 Le Conte Avenue, Los Angeles. (310) 208-5454; geffenplayhouse.com.
NOVEMBER
ELF Hmm, any chance of getting Will Ferrell (''You're Welcome America'') back to Broadway? His will be hard shoes to fill in this new musical based on the 2003 film that starred the goofy Mr. Ferrell as an orphan raised by Santa alongside the elves. (His wretched toy-making abilities eventually led to the truth and sent him on a search for his birth father.) George Wendt will play Santa in this holiday show, and the cast also includes Beth Leavel, Mark Jacoby and Matthew Gumley. The music is by Matthew Sklar (''The Wedding Singer''), lyrics by Chad Beguelin (ditto) and the book by Bob Martin (''The Drowsy Chaperone'') and Thomas Meehan (''Hairspray''). Casey Nicholaw (also ''The Drowsy Chaperone'') will direct and choreograph. Previews begin Nov. 2. Opens Nov. 14. Closes Jan. 2. Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; elfmusical.com.
ELLING Denis O'Hare, who has been chewing the scenery -- and some other characters -- on the HBO series ''True Blood'' this summer, will set aside his vampire teeth to portray the title character in this play, also starring Brendan Fraser, known for a film career of highs (''Gods and Monsters'') and lows (''Furry Vengeance''). Mr. Fraser will be making his Broadway debut in this adaptation by Simon Bent of a 2001 Norwegian film (in turn adapted from a novel by Ingvar Ambjornsen). The play, about two men with vastly different personalities who are released from a mental institution, live as roommates and try to adjust to the real world, had its premiere at the Bush Theater in London in 2007 and subsequently moved to the West End. On Broadway, Doug Hughes will direct a cast that also includes Jennifer Coolidge as a love interest of Mr. Fraser's character and Richard Easton as a mentor to the title character. Previews begin Nov. 2. Opens Nov. 21. Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; ellingonbroadway.com.
WAITING FOR THE DREAM In her minimalist interpretation of Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream,'' the director Irina Brook (daughter of Peter Brook) employs six male actors and few props and costume pieces. The production, in French with English subtitles, has been presented in a number of European countries over the last several years but is coming to the United States for the first time. Nov. 3-7. La Mama E.T.C., 74A East Fourth Street, East Village. (212) 475-7710; lamama.org.
THERE ARE NO MORE BIG SECRETS An American expatriate returns home with his Russian wife and finds his friendships altered in this play by Heidi Schreck, inspired by her experiences as a journalist in Siberia and St. Petersburg. (Ms. Schreck is also an actress; see ''The Language Archive,'' above.) Kip Fagan directs the Rattlestick Playwrights Theater production. Previews begin Nov. 3. Opens Nov. 11. Closes Dec. 11. Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village. Smarttix; rattlestick.org.
THE TRINITY RIVER PLAYS A trilogy of short works by Regina Taylor (''Drowning Crow''), the three new plays -- ''Jar Fly,'' ''Rain'' and ''Ghoststory'' -- follow the life of Iris from high school to a career as a journalist in New York, to a failed marriage and a return home to Texas searching for solace from her mother. Ethan McSweeny will direct the co-production of the Goodman Theater and the Dallas Theater Center. In Dallas: Nov. 5-Dec. 5, Potter Rose Performance Hall, Dallas Center for the Performing Arts, 2403 Flora Street, Dallas, (214) 880-0202; dallastheatercenter.org. At the Goodman: Jan. 15-Feb. 20, Albert Theater at the Goodman Theater, 170 North Dearborn Street, Chicago, (312) 443-3800; goodmantheatre.org.
RADIO CITY CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR As integral to Christmas in New York as a pushy crowd at Macy's, this popular family classic is back once again, offering magical effects, vibrant Rockettes, traditional numbers, including ''Parade of the Wooden Soldiers,'' and even fireworks. Nov. 5-Dec. 30. Radio City Music Hall. Ticketmaster; radiocitychristmas.com.
MISTAKES WERE MADE In this play by Craig Wright, Michael Shannon stars as a theater producer intent on making a political statement with a show he thinks will astound. The New York premiere arrives via the Barrow Street Theater in association with A Red Orchid Theater, a Chicago company that presented the world premiere last year. Dexter Bullard (''Bug'') is the director. Previews begin Nov. 5. Opens Nov. 14. Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village. Smarttix; barrowstreettheatre.com.
GHOST IN THE COTTONWOODS The playwright and director Adam Rapp is teaming up with the dauntless theater company the Amoralists for the New York premiere of his play about a woman and her two sons, one of them a prison escapee. Mr. Rapp will direct a cast of Amoralists regulars, all of them veterans of the company's production of ''The Pied Pipers of the Lower East Side.'' Previews begin Nov. 11. Opens Nov. 13. Closes Dec. 6. Theater 80 St. Marks, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village. (212) 388-0388, theatre80.org.
VENGEANCE IS THE LORD'S The parents of a murdered teenage girl have different ideas on the subject of mercy versus retribution vis-a-vis the killer in this new play by Bob Glaudini (''Jack Goes Boating''). Peter DuBois will direct the production by the Huntington Theater Company, where he is the artistic director. Previews begin Nov. 12. Opens Nov. 19. Closes Dec. 12. Huntington Theater Company, Boston University Theater, 264 Huntington Avenue, Boston. (617) 266-0800; huntingtontheatre.org.
IN THE FOOTPRINT: THE BATTLE OF THE ATLANTIC YARDS The contentious $4.9 billion real estate development that is transforming the Atlantic Yards area near downtown Brooklyn after years of legal battles is the subject of this play with music by the Civilians. It is a continuation of a Civilians project that began with ''Brooklyn at Eye Level'' in 2008. Written and directed by Steven Cosson, with music and lyrics by Michael Friedman (collaborators also on ''This Beautiful City''), the current show includes new interviews with residents, developers, politicians and others involved in the controversy. Nov. 12-Dec. 11. Irondale Center, 85 South Oxford Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn. Theatermania; irondale.org.
SPIDER-MAN: TURN OFF THE DARK Can it really be true? Is the long-awaited Broadway show about the web-slinging Marvel superhero finally taking the stage? It would appear so. This oft-delayed production, directed by Julie Taymor, features songs by Bono -- a guest New York Times Op-Ed columnist who is also in a band called U2 -- and the Edge (same band). Ms. Taymor and Glen Berger wrote the book. Reeve Carney (of the Los Angeles rock band Carney) plays the Wall Crawler, and the cast also includes Jennifer Damiano (''Next to Normal'') and Patrick Page (''A Man for All Seasons''), as the Green Goblin. The choreographer is Daniel Ezralow. And let's not forget the budget, which has been estimated at $50 million, the largest in Broadway history. Previews begin Nov. 14. Opens Dec. 21. Foxwoods Theater (formerly the Hilton Theater), 213 West 42nd Street, Manhattan. Ticketmaster; spidermanonbroadway.com.
WINTUK The Cirque du Soleil holiday story about a boy in an imaginary winter wonderland in search of snow returns for its fourth and final year and will include the usual assortment of acrobats, contortionists and other Cirque folks performing impossible feats. Nov. 17-Jan. 2. Theater at Madison Square Garden, Seventh Avenue between 31st and 33rd Streets. Ticketmaster; theateratmsg.com.
BELLS ARE RINGING We missed out on the usual Summer Stars series of Encores! this year, since City Center was undergoing renovations, but at least we have a regular season of the annual musical concert series coming up, starting with this 1956 musical with a book by Jule Styne and music and lyrics by Betty Comden and Adolph Green (Nov. 18-21). When ''Bells,'' about a woman who works for an answering service and falls for one of her clients, ran on Broadway, it played for 924 performances, and its stars, Judy Holliday and Sydney Chaplin, both won Tony Awards. The Encores! season will continue with ''Lost in the Stars'' (Feb. 3-6), the dark 1949 musical about apartheid, with a book and lyrics by Maxwell Anderson and music by Kurt Weill; and then, lightening the mood, the comedy ''Where's Charley?'' arrives (March 17-20), with music and lyrics by Frank Loesser and a book by George Abbott. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan. (212) 581-1212; nycitycenter.org.
THE COMPOSER IS DEAD A murder mystery involving an orchestra is part of the comical story told through clowning, puppetry and music in this musical, a world premiere presented by the Berkeley Repertory Theater (which sent ''American Idiot,'' among other productions, to Broadway). It was written by Lemony Snicket (the pseudonym of Daniel Handler), features music by Nathaniel Stookey and is a stage adaptation of a work for narrator and orchestra that the pair first created several years ago and which was released as a book and CD by HarperCollins in 2009. Tony Taccone, the theater's artistic director, will direct. Previews begin Nov. 26. Opens Dec. 2. Closes Jan. 15. Berkeley Repertory Theater, 2025 Addison Street, Berkeley, Calif. (510) 647-2949; berkeleyrep.org.
DECEMBER
BLOOD FROM A STONEEthan Hawke, Gordon Clapp, Thomas Guiry and Natasha Lyonne will star in a New Group production of a play by Tommy Nohilly, an actor and former Marine making his Off Broadway debut as a playwright. The dark comedy about the struggles of a working-class family in New Britain, Conn., will be directed by Scott Elliott, the New Group's artistic director. Previews begin Dec. 13. Opens Jan. 10. Closes Feb. 19. The New Group at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Manhattan. Ticket Central; thenewgroup.org.
OTHER DESERT CITIES When a novelist returns to her parents' home on Christmas -- her first visit in six years -- she announces that she is working on a memoir about a particularly charged time in the family's past. This does not make for the happiest of holiday reunions. Joe Mantello will direct the new work by Jon Robin Baitz. The play had previously been announced for Broadway (as ''Love and Mercy''), but in June it was moved Off Broadway, to the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, where several of Mr. Baitz's plays have been presented (''The Substance of Fire'' and ''A Fair Country,'' among them). Previews begin Dec. 16. Opens Jan. 13. Closes Feb. 27. Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center. Telecharge; lct.org.
THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST In a role he performed to critical acclaim at the Stratford Shakespeare Festival in 2009, Brian Bedford stars as the domineering dowager Lady Bracknell in Oscar Wilde's romantic comedy and social satire. (Charles Isherwood wrote in The Times, of the Stratford production: ''When Mr. Bedford strides onstage in the full regalia of a Victorian gentlewoman, a tuft of angry-looking tulle crowning his head, you instantly come to share Lady Bracknell's indifference to insignificant matters, so forcefully does he communicate the implacable will of this glorious theatrical creation.'') As he did in Stratford, Mr. Bedford will also direct this Roundabout Theater Company production. Previews begin Dec. 20. Opens Jan. 13. Closes March 6. American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, Manhattan. (212) 719-1300; roundabouttheatre.org.
JANUARY
THE MILK TRAIN DOESN'T STOP HERE ANYMORE Michael Wilson will direct Olympia Dukakis in this revival of Tennessee Williams's drama about Flora Goforth, a rich, imperious widow working on her memoirs, and a mysterious young visitor who appears out of the blue. He is handsome and may also be a harbinger of death. Mr. Wilson, the artistic director at Hartford Stage, produced a decadelong Williams marathon there, and in 2008 this play, starring Ms. Dukakis, was the final offering. Previews begin Jan. 7. Opens Jan. 30. Closes April 3. Roundabout Theater Company Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan. (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org.
THREE SISTERS The Classic Stage Company will revive Chekhov's play about a family of stagnating dreamers desperate to break free of provincial boredom and yet unable to do so. Among the cast, which includes several veterans of the company's 2009 production of ''Uncle Vanya,'' are Maggie Gyllenhaal, Mamie Gummer, Josh Hamilton, Roberta Maxwell, George Morfogen, Ebon Moss-Bachrach, Peter Sarsgaard and Louis Zorich. Austin Pendleton will direct. Previews begin Jan. 12. Opens Jan. 27. Closes Feb. 20. Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village. Theatermania; classicstage.org.
ON A CLEAR DAY YOU CAN SEE FOREVER The director Michael Mayer and the playwright Peter Parnell have brought back to life this 1965 musical about a woman with extrasensory perception who learns that she was also reincarnated. In this refashioned version, that woman is a man. The book by Mr. Parnell, based on the original by Alan Jay Lerner, includes, among other changes, material from the 1970 film version. The music is still by Burton Lane, though, and the lyrics are Mr. Lerner's. The show was developed at the Vineyard Theater and presented in workshop readings this summer at the Powerhouse Theater in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., as part of a Vassar College and New York Stage & Film program. January dates to be announced. Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Manhattan. (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org.
GRUESOME PLAYGROUND INJURIES Two friends, Kayleen and Doug, reunite numerous times over three decades, from ages 8 to 38, each encounter prompted by an injury of some sort, in this new play by Rajiv Joseph (''Bengal Tiger at the Baghdad Zoo,'' a finalist for the 2010 Pulitzer Prize for drama). Scott Ellis is the director. Previews begin in January on a date to be announced. Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton. (212) 246-4422; 2st.com.
FEBRUARY
GOOD PEOPLEFrances McDormand and Tate Donovan (recently of the FX series ''Damages'') will star in a new play by David Lindsay-Abaire (''Rabbit Hole''), directed for the Manhattan Theater Club by Daniel Sullivan. Ms. McDormand will play a paycheck-to-paycheck woman in South Boston whose money evaporates when she loses her job. She turns to a former fling (Mr. Donovan) as a possible ticket out. Previews begin Feb. 8. Opens March 3. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; manhattantheatreclub.com.
LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE Based on the 2006 Oscar-winning film about an unfailingly optimistic little girl and her bizarre family on a road trip to take a chance -- a long shot if ever there was one -- on her winning a children's beauty contest, this new musical has a book by James Lapine and music and lyrics by William Finn (''The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee''). Mr. Lapine will also direct the La Jolla Playhouse production. Previews begin Feb. 15. Opens March 4. Closes March 27. Mandell Weiss Theater, La Jolla Playhouse, 2910 La Jolla Village Drive, San Diego. (858) 550-1010; lajollaplayhouse.org.
BEAUTIFUL BURNOUT A group of driven amateur boxers in Glasgow is the focus of this play by Bryony Lavery (''Frozen'') that looks at the passions that drive them and the dangers they face. The show was greeted with strong reviews at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in August. The choreography, which includes intricate fight and training sequences, is by Steven Hoggett (''Black Watch,'' ''American Idiot'') and Scott Graham, who are also the co-directors. ''Burnout'' is a production of the National Theater of Scotland and Frantic Assembly, a British company run by the two director/choreographers, and comes to New York courtesy of St. Ann's Warehouse. Previews begin Feb. 24. Opens Feb. 27. Closes March 27. St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Brooklyn. (718) 254-8779; stannswarehouse.org.
KINLily Rabe stars in a new play by Bathsheba Doran about a poetry scholar from Texas who falls in love with an Irish personal trainer. They each have family issues that must be reconciled before they can hope for a happy future together. Directed by Sam Gold (''Circle Mirror Transformation,'' ''The Aliens''). Feb. 25-April 3. Playwrights Horizons Mainstage Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton. Ticket Central; playwrightshorizons.org.
PROMETHEUS BOUND The rock band System of a Down has been on hiatus for a few years, but the lead singer, Serj Tankian, has not been idle. He has written the music for this new rock musical adaptation of the Greek tragedy about the mythical Titan who was punished by Zeus for giving fire to the human race. The book and lyrics are by Steven Sater (''Spring Awakening''), and Diane Paulus (''Hair'') will direct the world premiere for the American Repertory Theater, where she is the artistic director. Fittingly for a rock show, it will be presented at Oberon, the theater's nightclublike alternate stage where ''The Donkey Show'' has been in residence for the last year. Previews begin Feb. 25. Opens March 4. Closes March 25. Oberon, 2 Arrow Street, Harvard Square, Cambridge, Mass. (617) 547-8300; americanrepertorytheater.org.
HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING The young British actor Daniel Radcliffe gets to try living the American Dream as a mailroom clerk who rises to the executive level with the aid of a self-help book in a revival of the 1961 Tony Award- and Pulitzer Prize-winning musical comedy. With music and lyrics by Frank Loesser and a book by Abe Burrows, Jack Weinstock and Willie Gilbert, based on the satirical guide of the same name by Shepherd Mead. (The original opened on Oct. 14, 1961, and ran for 1,417 performances.) Rob Ashford directs. Previews begin Feb. 26. Opens March 27. Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Manhattan. Telecharge; howtosucceedbroadway.com.
HUMANA FESTIVAL The new-play festival at the Actors Theater of Louisville celebrates its 35th anniversary in 2011 (Feb. 27-April 17). Among the many premieres will be ''Bob,'' a social satire by Peter Sinn Nachtrieb (''Boom''), about the quest for greatness of a man born in a bathroom at a White Castle restaurant in Louisville, Ky. Actors Theater of Louisville, 316 West Main Street, Louisville, Ky. (502) 584-1205; actorstheatre.org.
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE Compare and contrast time: after watching Al Pacino as Shylock in the fall (see above), we can check out F. Murray Abraham in the same role in this Theater for a New Audience version, a remounting of the company's well-received 2007 production, directed by Darko Tresnjak. Previews begin Feb. 27. Opens March 5. Closes March 13. Michael Schimmel Center for the Arts, Pace University, 3 Spruce Street, Lower Manhattan. Theatermania; tfana.org.
PETER AND THE STARCATCHERSNew York Theater Workshop will offer the first look at a new play by Rick Elice (''Jersey Boys''), based on the novel by Dave Barry and Ridley Pearson, a prequel to J. M. Barrie's Peter Pan stories. Roger Rees and the awfully busy Alex Timbers (see ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson'' and ''The Pee-Wee Herman Show,'' above) are sharing directing duties. Fittingly for a tale of great adventure: a company of 12 actors will play about 50 characters. Previews begin in February on a date to be announced. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village. Ticket Central; nytw.org.
MARCH
ANYTHING GOES Sutton Foster will star in the Roundabout Theater Company's new version of the 1934 Cole Porter musical about romance and mistaken identity on the high seas. The production features a new book by Timothy Crouse and John Weidman (instead of the original by Guy Bolton and P. G. Wodehouse). Kathleen Marshall will direct and choreograph. Previews begin March 10. Opens April 7. Stephen Sondheim Theater (the former Henry Miller's Theater), 124 West 43rd Street, Manhattan. (212) 719-1300; roundabouttheatre.org.
WAR HORSE In this play, a boy is forced to give up his horse when the animal goes off to World War I bearing a British officer. Based on a novel by Michael Morpurgo and adapted by Nick Stafford, and first produced at the National Theater in London in 2007, the show, which uses giant puppets to portray the horses, comes to New York via Lincoln Center Theater, in a co-production with the National Theater. Marianne Elliott and Tom Morris are the co-directors. Previews begin March 17. Opens April 14. Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center. Telecharge; lct.org.
WONDERLAND: A NEW ALICE. A NEW MUSICAL ADVENTURE The Alice we know and love is all grown up and has the attendant problems: an estranged husband, a distant daughter, a career on the rocks. A trip to Wonderland helps her regain her footing in this new musical, adapted from the Lewis Carroll books ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'' and ''Through the Looking-Glass.'' The book is by Gregory Boyd and Jack Murphy (''The Civil War''), lyrics by Mr. Murphy and music by Frank Wildhorn (''Jekyll & Hyde''). Mr. Boyd, the artistic director of the Alley Theater in Houston, is also the director. Before coming to New York, the show will have a run (Jan. 4-16) at the David A. Straz Jr. Center for the Performing Arts (1010 North W. C. MacInnes Place, Tampa, Fla., (800) 955-1045, strazcenter.org), where it has been in development. On Broadway: Previews begin March 21. Opens April 17. Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (in the Marriott Marquis Hotel), Manhattan. Ticketmaster; wonderlandonbroadway.com.
THE BOOK OF MORMON The creators of the still-controversial animated television series ''South Park,'' Trey Parker and Matt Stone, have teamed up with Robert Lopez (''Avenue Q'') to write the book, music and lyrics for what we can assume is an irreverent look at the early days of the Mormon Church. Mr. Parker will share directing duties with Casey Nicholaw, who is also the choreographer. Previews are scheduled to begin in March at a Broadway theater to be announced.
SISTER ACTJerry Zaks directs a splashy stage musical based on the 1992 movie starring Whoopi Goldberg (a producer of this show) as a lounge singer who witnesses a murder and goes into hiding in a convent. She cannot keep her irrepressible personality in check enough to pose successfully as a nun, however, and high jinks ensue. The show, updated to the 1970s (disco!) features a book by Cheri and Bill Steinkellner, music by Alan Menken (see ''Leap of Faith,'' above) and lyrics by Glenn Slater. It is currently running in London, where it opened last year. Previews will begin in March at a Broadway theater to be announced; sisteractthemusical.com.
APRIL
A MINISTER'S WIFE Lincoln Center Theater will present the musical adaptation by the industrious Austin Pendleton (''Detroit'' and ''Three Sisters,'' see above) of George Bernard Shaw's 1898 play ''Candida,'' about a seemingly happy marriage that is thrown off balance by the appearance of a handsome young poet. The music is by Joshua Schmidt (''Adding Machine'') with lyrics by Jan Tranen. The director, Michael Halberstam, is the artistic director and a co-founder of the Writers' Theater in Glencoe, Ill., where this show had its premiere a year ago. Previews begin April 7. Opens May 5. Closes June 12. Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center. Telecharge; lct.org.
MAY
ARMISTEAD MAUPIN'S TALES OF THE CITY The American Conservatory Theater is dedicating two slots on its season calendar to the world premiere of a musical based on the series of books by Armistead Maupin -- stories set in San Francisco. The book is by Jeff Whitty, who teams up once again with the director Jason Moore, both of ''Avenue Q'' fame. Particularly exciting for some: the music and lyrics are by Jake Shears and John Garden, of the band Scissor Sisters, making their first foray into theater. Previews begin May 17. Opens May 31. Closes June 19. American Conservatory Theater, 415 Geary Street, San Francisco. (415) 749-2228; act-sf.org.
UNCHAIN MY HEART Brandon Victor Dixon (''The Scottsboro Boys'' Off Broadway) is to star in this new musical about the life and work of Ray Charles, set during his last live recording session. The show features Charles's music, including some of his most famous tunes -- the title song, ''Hit the Road, Jack'' and ''Georgia on My Mind'' -- and a book by Suzan-Lori Parks (''Topdog/Underdog''). Sheldon Epps is the director. Originally planned for the fall, the production was delayed for logistical reasons, according to an announcement in July by the lead producer, Stuart Benjamin. A spring opening is planned at a Shubert theater to be announced. unchainmyheartonbroadway.com.
Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O'Connor.
Correction: September 26, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An entry in the theater listings on Sept. 12 about the play ''Through the Night'' referred incompletely to the premiere production of Daniel Beaty's earlier work, ''Resurrection.'' The 2008 premiere was a co-production of Arena Stage in Washington and the Hartford Stage Company, and was first presented at Arena Stage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Benjamin Walker, far left, as the seventh president, in ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson.'' Above, Brian Murray in Edward Albee's ''Me, Myself & I.'' Top right, Brian D'Arcy James and Laura Linney in ''Time Stands Still.'' Bottom right, Jemma Redgrave, Tom McKay and Nabil Elouahabi in ''The Great Game: Afghanistan.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOHN HAYNES)
Below left, Tristan Sturrock and Hannah Yelland in ''Brief Encounter.'' Below right, Daniel Beaty in ''Through the Night.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SHERRY RUBEL/REUTERS) (AR12)
The Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter, playwright and performer Lawrence Wright in ''The Human Scale,'' about the crisis in Gaza. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN YATAROLA)
Paul Reubens, the star of ''The Pee-wee Herman Show,'' coming to Broadway. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF VESPA) (AR14)
Clockwise, from top: the Kander and Ebb musical ''The Scottsboro Boys''
Julia Stiles in ''Persephone''
''The Radio City Christmas Spectacular''
and Tony Sheldon, center, in ''Priscilla Queen of the Desert.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PAUL KOLNIK/MSG ENTERTAINMENT
TRISTRAM KENTON
LAURIE OLINDER) (AR18)
From top: a scene from ''War Horse,'' and F. Murray Abraham as Shylock in ''The Merchant of Venice.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMON ANNAND
 GERRY GOODSTEIN) (AR29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (93%); THEATER & DRAMA (92%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (90%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MURDER (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2010



312 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: To Create Jobs, Nurture Start-Ups

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
MODERN tools of data analysis -- fast computers, smart software and vast troves of digital information -- often open the door to new insights. Consider the subject of jobs in America.
For decades, the assumption has been that small business is the economy's dynamic engine of job generation. Look at the numbers broadly, and that is the irrefutable conclusion: two-thirds of net new jobs are created by companies with fewer than 500 employees, which is the government's definition of a small business.
But research published last month by three economists, working with more recent and detailed data sets than before, has found that once the age of the businesses is taken into account, there is no difference in the job-producing performance of small companies and big ones. 
''Size plays virtually no role,'' says John C. Haltiwanger, a co-author of the study and an economist at the University of Maryland. ''It's all age -- start-ups are where the job-creation action really occurs.''
Start-ups account for much job destruction as well. Within five years, half of these businesses have folded. Yet the survivors are prime candidates to join the young, dynamic companies that make an outsize contribution to innovation, productivity gains and job growth, Mr. Haltiwanger says.
So any serious discussion of job creation, it seems, should look at the business tactics and policy steps that are most likely to nurture more of these promising corporate upstarts.
Doing that can be tricky, however, and government small-business initiatives are often misguided, according to Josh Lerner, a professor at the Harvard Business School. Government programs to stimulate bank lending, he says, are not geared to entrepreneurial start-ups. Those new companies need equity investment to fund risk-taking, free of the financial burden of paying interest on loans.
Mr. Lerner is concerned about the impact of the Obama administration's plan to raise the tax on long-term capital gains -- profits on investments held more than a year -- to 20 percent from 15 percent for taxpayers with household incomes of at least $250,000. It could well reduce early-stage equity funding by angel investors, typically individuals who provide the seed capital for new companies well before venture capital firms put in money.
''Capital gains taxes are an important part of the calculus of angel investors,'' he said.
For the small-business sector as a whole, individual income tax rates are an important issue, and small-business lobbying groups are fighting the administration's proposal to raise the top rate to 39.6 percent from the current 35 percent.
Yet that is not the perspective of start-ups. Most young companies make precious little income during their first few years, and their leaders are focused on hitting it big, not on tax rates. In the 1970s, for example, when Bill Gates and Steve Jobs founded their companies, the top income tax rate was 70 percent.
''For entrepreneurs, the marginal income tax rate doesn't make any difference,'' says David Friend, 61, a founder of six companies over the last three decades.
Today, Mr. Friend is the chief executive of Carbonite, a five-year-old technology company based in Boston. It grew out of the observation that few people make backup copies of digital photographs, personal records and documents that they have stored on their computers -- and often lose them if a hard disk crashes or a notebook machine is lost or stolen.
So Mr. Friend and his co-founders set out to build an easy-to-use online backup service for consumers and small businesses. It stores their information remotely and offers unlimited storage for $55 a year.
Carbonite's revenue is doubling annually, to an estimated $40 million this year, Mr. Friend says. Its employment in the United States, largely engineers and marketing staff, has more than tripled in the last two years, to 132.
For Barry Silbert, 34, start-up success has been a result of spotting a market opportunity and, then, deft execution. Five years ago, as a young investment banker, Mr. Silbert recognized the growth in restricted stock issued to corporate managers. This stock cannot be traded on public exchanges, so he wanted to set up a new marketplace to trade those shares.
Mr. Silbert began in a tiny office in New York City with five people, two telephones and a few desktop computers. Their trading technology consisted of Excel spreadsheets, he recalled. It was a ''lean start-up'' before that term was widely used.
''But that meant we were profitable almost from the start,'' says Mr. Silbert, the chief executive of the company, called SecondMarket.Today, SecondMarket is best known for dealing the private shares of fast-growing tech start-ups like Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. These companies have not yet gone public, but former employees and others often want to sell their shares.
SecondMarket is growing rapidly, he says, with revenue of $35 million last year, and its work force has more than doubled in less than two years, to 150. It plans to expand abroad, in Asia and Israel.
For Mr. Silbert, work-force issues trump taxes as a long-term concern. Like many other entrepreneurs, he advocates granting more residence visas to skilled immigrants, especially those who attend American universities.
''The best and the brightest from other countries come here, and then we're not letting them stay,'' he said. ''That will damage innovation and job creation in the United States.''
FOREIGN-BORN entrepreneurs have long played a big role in American start-ups. A study that tracked technology and engineering start-ups from 1995 to 2005 found that one quarter of them had a foreign-born chief executive or head technologist; by 2005, the surviving companies generated $52 billion in sales and employed 450,000 workers.
There are signs that policy makers are looking to accommodate highly skilled workers and entrepreneurs, says Robert Litan, an economist at the Kauffman Foundation. As one example, he points to legislation proposed this year by Senators John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana. Called the Start-Up Visa Act, it would grant visas to immigrant entrepreneurs who create jobs in the United States.
''In this economic environment, I think job-creating ideas that don't cost money are going to get a fair hearing,'' Mr. Litan says.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The trading floor of SecondMarket in New York. The company, known for dealing the private shares of fast-growing tech start-ups, has grown quickly itself.
 Barry Silbert is C.E.O. of SecondMarket, which began with 5 employees and now has 150. It plans to expand abroad. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX LAW (85%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); WRITERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); EQUITY FINANCING (67%); INCOME TAX (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



313 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 FORD FIESTA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: A Wee Taste of Europe: Will Americans Bite?

BYLINE: By EZRA DYER

 BODY:
THERE are two types of small cars in America. First, there are the bare-bones, price-is-the-entire-object ennui-boxes. These are the cars you end up driving when you stubbornly resist the $2-a-day upgrade at the rental counter.
A few years back, Chevrolet of Canada caught flak for running an ad for the Cavalier that basically said, ''Hey, it's better than taking the bus.'' The pitch offended bus riders and public transportation advocates, but I admire that honesty. Cars that duke it out at the very bottom of the market -- like the basest Nissan Versa or Hyundai Accent, each priced around $10,000 -- promise mobility, and that's about it.
It took a long time for car companies to realize that drivers in the United States might consider a small vehicle that wasn't ruthlessly built to a price. The modern Mini Cooper was the trailblazer, proving that Americans might buy a diminutive hatchback on its own merits, even when they could afford something bigger. Cars like the Mini and the Honda Fit offer a more upscale driving experience than the frill-free automotive flounders that scour the bottom of the market for rental sales, college students and frugal commuters. 
The Ford Fiesta is a subcompact in the ambitious Fit idiom. It's not the least expensive small car you can buy (or even, perhaps, the least expensive Ford). But the 2011 Fiesta hews to the European hatchback ideal, and Europeans hold the bizarre expectation that small vehicles should act like real cars.
First, a bit of history on the nameplate: in the late 1970s and early '80s, Ford sold a hatchback called the Fiesta. In the late '80s, it introduced a hatchback named the Festiva. Now we're back to the Fiesta. I asked Ford what the rationale was behind the Fiesta-to-Festiva-to-Fiesta name change, and the response was, ''The Festiva was a different car.''
Right. One which happened to be the smallest Ford hatchback, just like the car it replaced. It's as if Ford canceled the Mustang, replaced it with a V-8 muscle car named the Mutsvang, and then declared that the two vehicles had nothing to do with each other. And I'm afraid that's the best answer I have for you on that. This Fiesta is a far cry from the bygone Korean-built Festiva, which came with 12-inch steel wheels suggesting that somewhere, a lawn tractor was up on blocks.
Ford's new baby is available as a sedan or five-door hatchback and offers upmarket equipment like a 6-speed dual-clutch sequential transmission, heated leather seats and the excellent Sync multimedia system.
There are still a few obvious cost-cutting measures. For instance, the rear brakes are drums, not discs. But then again, so are they on a Maybach -- the 1932 Maybach Zeppelin, to be exact.
Rear drums aside, the Fiesta is about as safe as it gets in this class. The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety named the Fiesta the first minicar to earn the designation of Top Safety Pick. (The distinction applies to Fiestas built after July, when Ford strengthened the door handles.)
Regardless of the build date, the Fiesta interior has enough air bags to raise the Edmund Fitzgerald. And electronic stability control is standard.
There is one engine, a 1.6-liter 4-cylinder that squeezes out an indifferent 120 horsepower. So the Fiesta is slow. Then again, so are its competitors. But you should not drive alongside rivers near college campuses, because you might get passed by varsity crew teams.
The Fiesta's best talent is making you forget its size once you're actually moving down the road. The body is so stiff and quiet that I kept finding myself speeding, despite the modest power.
The suspension quietly soaks up impacts while maintaining a controlled ride -- there's none of the Clydesdale clop you hear when the engineers try to dial a soft ride into an overly flexible chassis. You get a sense that the limits are low but that the car doesn't mind frolicking on an on-ramp now and then.
Mainly, though, the Fiesta seems optimized for the role it will probably fill for most people: commuting. There's very little wind noise, you have Sync to handle your smartphone and play podcasts, and the fuel economy is excellent -- 40 miles per gallon on the highway, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. When you do need to gas up, Ford's capless filler is one of those small delights that makes life a little easier.
If you had to spend a couple of hours a day in a Fiesta, my sense is that it would endear itself rather than instill resentment. Hey, you don't like the color of the cupholder lighting? You can change it, boss. It aims to please, the Fiesta.
The Fiesta is really the exemplar of the domestic hatchback's newfound respectability. But the main challenge for small cars in America is that there's not much financial incentive to buy them.
In Europe and Japan, driving a smaller car brings tax advantages. Then there's the cost of fuel, which is currently more than $6 a gallon in most of Europe. When every mile per gallon and gram of carbon dioxide counts on the bottom line, it makes sense to buy the smallest car that will get you to work on time.
And to that end, the Fiesta is a hit. It's Ford's No. 1 seller in Europe, with half a million sold in the last year.
But in the United States, unless your car is subject to the gas-guzzler penalty, the taxman doesn't care whether you have a 1.6-liter 4 or a 550-horsepower V-8. So the financial rationale for entry-level cars mostly amounts to what you save on the purchase price, relative to the next car up the ladder. And for Ford, there's precious little breathing room between the Fiesta and its bigger sibling, the Focus.
The Fiesta starts at $13,995 for a basic sedan with a 5-speed manual transmission and can cost more than $21,000 for a loaded five-door SES. A couple of months ago, I grabbed a Ford dealership flier that advertised the 2011 Fiesta SE for $16,895. The same dealership was hawking the 2010 Focus SEL, with a leather interior, for $15,495.
The Focus concedes a few m.p.g. -- its highway mileage is in the mid-30s -- but it offers more passenger room and 20 extra horsepower. The Fiesta is technologically superior, but will buyers care about a dual-clutch gearbox when they can get more car for less money in the same dealership? I know I'm comparing leftover Focuses with 2011 Fiestas, but even once the Focus is redesigned, there will never be much daylight between these two cars.
At current gas prices, the E.P.A. estimates that fueling up a Focus instead of a Fiesta would cost an extra $219 a year (assuming 15,000 miles of driving). Somehow, I doubt that the prospect of saving 60 cents a day will be the deciding factor in many new-car purchases.
However, it was barely more than two years ago that gasoline passed $4 a gallon and the Honda Civic started outselling the Ford F-150. I'll wager that gas prices will eventually pass $4 again. And when they do, the Fiesta will be the life of the party.
INSIDE TRACK: Ford starts taking small cars seriously.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SMALLVILLE: The Fiesta minicar, already Ford's best seller in Europe, is offered in the United States as a hatchback, above, or sedan. Base prices start around $14,000, and upscale options are available. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); COLLEGE STUDENTS MARKET (71%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (51%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



314 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: For the Car, and Far From Pedestrian

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY. 
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

 BODY:
CONSIDER the lowly garage, usually placed somewhere between the tenement and the outhouse as a fit subject for architectural appreciation and historic preservation. But public garages, which appeared in the early 1900s, often rose to respectable, even exciting, heights.
Among the earliest such spaces standing in Manhattan is the five-story Garage Deluxe, at 177 East 73rd, designed by Charles Hoppe in 1906. The building is of red brick with white terra-cotta trim, its large central bay borrowed from power plant design -- a specialty of Mr. Hoppe, but with a Beaux-Arts twist. In the same year The New York Times reported that garages typically charged $20 to $30 per month, including washing and polishing. 
After an initial burst of architectural exuberance, most garage designs were uninspired, but in 1917 the architects Hunt & Hunt designed a garage at 337 East 64th Street using tapestry brick and large arches. It was to be cooperatively owned, and some measure of its patronage is indicated by the destruction wrought by a floor collapse in 1957. The resulting pancakes included a 1928 Hispano-Suiza and a 1928 Bugatti.
The architect Hector Hamilton was little known when he designed the two-story Tunnel Garage, at Broome and Thompson Streets, in 1922, for George Stivers, a Charlton Street physician. Mr. Hamilton gave it hypnotic, wavy, aqua-colored bands -- the Hudson River, perhaps? -- and a large terra-cotta plaque showing a car in a tunnel, certainly the projected Holland Tunnel, built from 1920 to 1927. Mr. Hamilton became prominent in 1932 when the Soviet Union gave first prize -- shared with two Soviet architects -- for his new Palace of the Soviets, only to cancel the award without explanation a few months later.
Another garage in which terra cotta played a part was the Alan, put up in 1930 at 164 East 87th Street and designed by Frank Schefcik. The light yellow, white and green glazes of the ornament created a distinctly un-utilitarian building, with a delicate crisscross design on the head house. Because of restrictions on projecting signs, Mr. Schefcik emblazoned the front with two-foot-high glazed red letters announcing THE ALAN GARAGE. Emanuel Ornstein, the builder, named it for his grandson.
Garage architecture waxed in the 1920s, and the next few years brought a rush of unusual designs. In 1929 the architects Seelig & Finkelstein designed the eight-story Aristocrat Garage at 17 East 12th Street, dark red brick with a moody, medieval feeling.
The following year seven well-to-do East Side families banded together to graft a tennis club onto an old two-story garage on 65th Street east of Third Avenue. Their architect, James W. O'Connor, made the place look like a Regency town house.
The income from the downstairs Devon Garage was used to operate the upstairs as the Courthouse Club. In 1930, a hundred people attended a coming-out party in a tennis court canopied with blue gauze dotted with stars; the Happy-Go-Lucky Boys sang during supper. The club also had a squash court, a card room and a swimming pool painted with scenes from ''Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.'' A typical activity was a dinner in 1939 followed by a talk, ''Trout Fishing Under Difficulties.''
In the late 1920s, Milton A. Kent, a Westchester life insurance salesman with a big idea, got financial backing for his Kent Automatic Garage, building high-rise garages on 44th east of Third, and at 61st and Columbus, the latter with spectacular polychrome terra cotta. Mr. Kent's bold concept was a machine that hooked onto a car's axle and moved it within the building, entirely ''untouched by human hands'' according to an ad in The Times in 1930. He went bankrupt in 1931.
Also of the Jazz Age, but smaller, is the zigzag-style Croyden Garage of 1930 at 406 East 91st, designed by Horace Ginsbern.
Of the garage designs after 1930, one stands out: the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority's Battery Parking Garage of 1950, at the entrance to the Battery Tunnel. Designed by Ole Singstad with narrow slit windows and a corrugated concrete facade, it has a squinty, bunkerlike aspect consonant with the age of nuclear weapons.
In recent years the Garage Deluxe, on East 73rd Street, and the Kent Garage, at 61st and Columbus, have been designated landmarks, but generally, garages have not received much attention. The Tunnel was demolished several years ago, over preservationists' late-breaking objections, although the terra-cotta plaque has been re-erected on the subsequent apartment house. The Devon and its upstairs club came down years ago. But the Ritz, the Croyden and others are still generally intact.
A pitiable exception is the Alan Garage, so notable for its unusual decorative character which, as of 2009, appeared to be in perfectly sound condition. Last year the owner carefully stripped off every last bit of ornamental terra cotta, leaving a mongrel work. The Alan backs up to low buildings on 86th Street and Lexington, an area that has seen intensive development, and something about the thoroughness of what was termed in the building application ''facade repair'' suggests an attempt to preclude future landmarks interference.
But Michael Walsh, an engineer with PCS Engineering, which did the work, said it was just that stripping off all the detail was ''very economical, especially these days when there are a lot of contractors looking for work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OFF-STREET PARKING: Near left, the Alan Garage on East 87th Street, near the end of construction in 1930. Center, the Tunnel Garage on Broome Street at Thompson, in 1938. The Tunnel's terra-cotta medallion, far left, was uncovered about five years ago as the garage was about to be razed. Below, the Devon on East 65th Street, once a combination garage and tennis club, in 1960. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF JEROME WEINSTEIN
ABOVE AND BELOW, OFFICE FOR METROPOLITAN HISTORY
 FAR LEFT, NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HISTORY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%)

COMPANY: HUNT & HUNT (56%); AIRCELLE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



315 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW JERSEY DINING VINCENTOWN; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: A Real Diner, Seasonal and Local

BYLINE: By KARLA COOK

 BODY:
WHEN the readers of Edible Jersey magazine gave the owners of a South Jersey diner a Local Hero Award, I added the restaurant to my list of places to try. But when friends came back from a visit there, excited about the everyday use of local products, I called for reservations.
Of course they don't take reservations at Vincentown Diner: It's a real diner. In typical diner fashion, they seat you fast, serve you faster and get you out the door -- a little too full, chilled by the blasting air-conditioning and slightly dizzy from the experience. But it's the updated attitude on the plates that makes it a destination. 
The meat in those juicy half-pound charbroiled burgers is grass-fed and local, from Simply Grazin in Skillman. There is also a grass-fed lamb burger, with a mixed marriage of Greek (tzatziki sauce) and Italian-Latin (basil-tomato salsa). The eggs in the mile-high Key lime pie (with a crisp graham-cracker crust) are organic. The slim and elegant slices of sweet grilled zucchini and the steamed green beans are local. And the coffee is roasted at Small World Coffee in Princeton.
The prices for such feasting are a bargain. Burgers, with a generous serving of smoking-hot thick steak fries, are $12 to $13. Chicken Palermo, at $15, is another good deal, especially when you consider that it is served with sauteed spinach and a choice of soup or salad. It is made with conventionally raised birds but stuffed with cheese from Cherry Grove Farm, in Lawrenceville, as well as prosciutto. Even the simple marinated and grilled chicken breast with its tetrazzini pasta cake (think kugel), sauteed spinach and soup or salad is delicious, and at $14, it's an affordable luxury.
Jimmy Melissaratos, who shares ownership of the diner -- and his name -- with his cousin, said in a phone conversation after my visits that the diner began a switch to local and seasonal foods about six years ago because it made sense and because he wanted to support the local economy.
''Burlington County, it's a farming area,'' he said. ''We're historically a diner and it's not elitist. If I can get my people to go for this stuff -- working-class people in a rural community -- and if we can do it, it means everybody can do it.''
Not everything on the menu is local; it is limited by cost, supply and diner preferences. A producer once called Mr. Melissaratos to say there would be a two-week delay on a beef delivery because he couldn't get the cattle on the truck.
''Sometimes, the food runs away,'' he said. ''It's not coming out of a box from Iowa.''
Quiz the waiter before ordering, since the best bets seem to be the marquee local foods. Three starters we chose at random were less successful. Coconut shrimp rivaled coconut macaroons for sweetness. Onion rings looked and tasted factory-made. Asian dumplings were standard.
Know, too, that local can go only so far. Dry meatloaf, as in the case of the stuffed version here, wrapped around sauteed spinach, roasted peppers and provolone, is still dry meatloaf, even when it is made with grass-fed beef and served with mashed potatoes and fresh Jersey green beans. Homemade soups -- a local corn chowder one night, and a sweet potato on another -- were too thick and lacked flavor. And the wines -- only from New Jersey -- didn't marry well with our food. We left the wine and drank water.
Sweet endings at Vincentown Diner transcend traditional offerings. Beyond the Key lime pie, there was a banana cream variety so fresh that the bananas were still the same off-white hue as the rest of the filling; a Jersey blueberry bread pudding that, true to its name, was more pudding than cake, and a blueberry pie that, despite its two-crust construction, was overfilled with berries, throwing the ratio off. But the best dessert of all was the blueberry milkshake. Lurid lavender and lavishly portioned, it was Jersey at its best.
Vincentown Diner
2357 Route 206
Vincentown
(609) 267-3033
vincentowndiner.com
WORTH IT
THE SPACE Sprawling, traditional 220-seat diner. Complete wheelchair access.
THE CROWD Casual; servers are efficient.
THE BAR Full range of cocktails. List of six local wines on the menu, by the bottle ($16 to $20) and by the glass ($5 to $6), with no outside wines allowed. Nine kinds of beer, $3.50 to $4 a bottle.
THE BILL Entrees and sandwiches, $9 to $21; breakfast all day, $6.50 to $9.50. All major credit cards accepted.
WHAT WE LIKE El Greco lamb burger, Tex-Mex burger and Farmhouse burger; grilled chicken with pasta cake, chicken Palermo with prosciutto and Jersey cheese, Jersey green beans, Jersey zucchini, Key lime pie, banana cream pie, blueberry bread pudding, blueberry milkshake.
IF YOU GO Open Sunday through Thursday, 6:30 a.m. to 11:30 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 6:30 a.m. to 1:30 a.m.
RATINGS Don't Miss, Worth It, O.K., Don't Bother.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DESTINATION: The Vincentown Diner, above, offers an El Greco burger, made with New Jersey-raised lamb. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN COLLERD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); COFFEE (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); MARRIAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



316 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON FILM; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Pastry Chefs, Wizards, Owls And a Gekko

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
SEPTEMBER
All dates are subject to change.
Sept. 15
GASLAND When he's asked to lease his land for drilling, the filmmaker Josh Fox embarks on a documentary investigation of the natural gas industry.
KINGS OF PASTRY An international assortment of pastry chefs gathers for a bake-off in Lyon, France, in a documentary directed by D. A. Pennebaker and Chris Hegedus (''The War Room'').
NEVER LET ME GO Mark Romanek (''One Hour Photo'') directs an adaptation of Kazuo Ishiguro's acclaimed novel about three young Britons (Carey Mulligan, Andrew Garfield and Keira Knightley) who discover a strange world beyond the sheltered confines of their boarding school.
Sept. 17 
ALPHA AND OMEGA Two animated wolves, the easygoing Humphrey (with the voice of Justin Long) and the tightly controlling Kate (Hayden Panettiere), make their way across the country in a film directed by Anthony Bell and Ben Gluck. With the vocal talents of Dennis Hopper, Danny Glover, Larry Miller, Eric Price and Vicki Lewis.
THE ANCHORAGE A middle-aged woman goes about her daily life on a small undeveloped island in the Baltic Sea, until her isolation is interrupted by the appearance of an unknown deer hunter. C. W. Winter and Anders Edstrom directed this experimental feature.
CATFISH A 24-year-old New York photographer is drawn into the life of an 8-year-old painter through the treacherous world of social media. Ariel Schulman and Henry Joost directed this documentary.
DEVIL A group of people trapped in an elevator discover that one of their number is Satan himself. John Erick Dowdle directed from a story by M. Night Shyamalan; with Chris Messina, Logan Marshall-Green and Jenny O'Hara.
EASY A Her reputation besmirched by a nasty rumor, a high school girl (Emma Stone) comes to identify with Hester Prynne of ''The Scarlet Letter.'' With Penn Badgley, Amanda Bynes, Thomas Haden Church and Patricia Clarkson; Will Gluck directed.
THE FREEBIE Katie Aselton (''The Puffy Chair'') directed and stars in this indie feature about a young married couple who decide that a night off from monogamy might bolster their waning physical relationship. With Dax Shepard.
THE GIRL A 10-year-old girl is left to her own devices when her eccentric aunt abandons her to go sailing with a man she has just met. A first feature from the Swedish director Fredrik Edfeldt.
THE HAPPY POET An unemployed poet opens an organic fast food stand in this indie comedy written and directed by Paul Gordon.
JACK GOES BOATINGPhilip Seymour Hoffman makes his feature-directing debut with a story of two New York couples: a pair of singles (Mr. Hoffman and Amy Ryan) who are coming together, and a married couple (John Ortiz and Daphne Rubin-Vega) who are drifting apart. From a play by Bob Glaudini.
LAST DAY OF SUMMER Fed up with his fast-food job, a young man (DJ Qualls) impulsively kidnaps a beautiful girl (Nikki Reed). Directed by Vlad Yudin.
LEAVES OF GRASSEdward Norton plays identical twins, one a high-flying academic and the other a professional marijuana farmer, in a comedy written and directed by Tim Blake Nelson. With Richard Dreyfuss, Susan Sarandon, Melanie Lynskey and Keri Russell.
MUSIC MAKES A CITY How Louisville, Ky., became the world capital of contemporary concert music in the 1950s with the backing of an enthusiastic mayor and a $400,000 grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to commission new work. This documentary by Owsley Brown III and Jerome Hiler features interviews with the composers Ned Rorem, Lukas Foss, Chou Wen-chung, Harold Shapero and Elliott Carter.
THE OTHER CITY Susan Koch's documentary reveals a largely unseen side of Washington -- the city with the highest rate of H.I.V. infection in the United States.
PICTURE ME The troubled rise to fame of the model Sara Ziff, documenting abuses in the industry, related in a video diary directed by Ms. Ziff and Ole Schell.
SWEETHEARTS OF THE PRISON RODEOBradley Beesley's documentary looks at the 2007 Oklahoma State Penitentiary Rodeo, the second of the annual competitions in which female inmates were allowed to participate.
THE TEMPTATION OF ST. TONY From the Estonian filmmaker Veiko Ounpuu, the tale of a midlevel executive who loses his moral compass as his life seems to disintegrate around him.
3 BILLION AND COUNTING The global devastation caused by malaria is pinned on the 1972 ban on the use of DDT in a documentary written, produced and directed by Dr. Rutledge, who doesn't use a first name.
THE TOWN A professional bank robber (Ben Affleck) lets his emotional guard down enough to risk falling in love with one of his former hostages (Rebecca Hall). Mr. Affleck directed; with Jon Hamm, Jeremy Renner, Blake Lively and Pete Postlethwaite.
Sept. 22
100 VOICES: A JOURNEY HOME Directed by Danny Gold and Matthew Asner, this documentary follows a group of cantors on a concert tour of Poland in 2009.
YOU WILL MEET A TALL DARK STRANGER The romantic misadventures of a pair of married couples -- Anthony Hopkins and Gemma Jones, and Naomi Watts and Josh Brolin -- as their disaffection leads them into involvements with assorted outsiders (Lucy Punch, Antonio Banderas, Freida Pinto). Woody Allen wrote and directed.
Sept. 24
BURIED A truck driver (Ryan Reynolds) wakes up and finds himself buried alive, with only a 90-minute supply of oxygen and no idea how he got there. Rodrigo Cortes directed.
ENTER THE VOID The disembodied spirit of a dying drug dealer (Nathaniel Brown) goes on a hallucinatory tour of Tokyo in a film by the French provocateur Gaspar Noe (''Irreversible''). With Paz de la Huerta.
HOWLJames Franco plays the young Allen Ginsberg in a film by Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman (''The Celluloid Closet'') centered on his 1957 trial for obscenity. With David Strathairn, Jon Hamm, Bob Balaban, Alessandro Nivola, Treat Williams, Mary-Louise Parker and Jeff Daniels.
LEGEND OF THE GUARDIANS: THE OWLS OF GA'HOOLE A young owl goes in search of the legendary warrior birds whose intervention is needed to preserve the embattled owl kingdom. Zack Snyder (''Watchmen'') directed this 3-D computer animation, which features the voices of Emily Barclay, Abbie Cornish, Helen Mirren, Sam Neill, Geoffrey Rush, Jim Sturgess and Hugo Weaving.
A MOTHER'S COURAGE: TALKING BACK TO AUTISM An Icelandic woman sets out to learn all she can about the mysterious condition that afflicts her son in a documentary directed by Fridrik Thor Fridriksson (''Children of Nature'').
WAITING FOR 'SUPERMAN' The director Davis Guggenheim (''An Inconvenient Truth'') takes a long, hard look at the American public education system in this documentary.
WALL STREET: MONEY NEVER SLEEPSMichael Douglas returns as the highly quotable financier Gordon Gekko in Oliver Stone's sequel to his 1987 ''Wall Street.''Shia LaBeouf, Josh Brolin, Carey Mulligan, Eli Wallach, Susan Sarandon and Frank Langella co-star.
YOU AGAINKristen Bell stars as a successful publicist dismayed to discover that her brother (Jimmy Wolk) is marrying her old rival from high school (Odette Yustman). It doesn't help that their mothers (Jamie Lee Curtis and Sigourney Weaver) also share an ancient grudge. Andy Fickman directed; with Kristin Chenoweth, Victor Garber and Betty White.
Sept. 29
NINE NATION ANIMATION Award-winning shorts from Norway, Turkey, France, Belgium, Croatia, South Africa and elsewhere.
NUREMBERG Commissioned by the United States War Department and shown in occupied Germany in 1948 and 1949 as part of the de-Nazification campaign, Stuart Schulberg's documentary about the first Nuremberg trial was considered too disturbing to be shown in American theaters at the time. This is a restored version, supervised by Sandra Schulberg and Josh Waletzky, using material from the German National Film Archive and framed by a narration by Liev Schreiber.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amanda Bynes, far left, returns to the screen with Emma Stone in the high school comedy ''Easy A''
below, Shia LaBeouf, left, and Michael Douglas, back as Gordon Gekko, in Oliver Stone's sequel ''Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM TAYLOR/SCREEN GEMS
BARRY WETCHER/20TH CENTURY FOX)
Clockwise from right, Freida Pinto and Josh Brolin in Woody Allen's ''You Will Meet a Tall Dark Stranger''
Nathaniel Brown in ''Enter the Void,'' directed by Gaspar Noe
Chef Jacquy Pfeiffer at the French Pastry School in Chicago, in the documentary ''Kings of Pastry,'' directed by Chris Hegedus and D. A. Pennebaker. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEITH HAMSHERE/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS
IFC FILMS
PAUL STRABBING/FIRST RUN FEATURES) (AR42)
James Franco, top, as an agitated Harry Osborn in ''Spider-Man 3,'' and, above, with Seth Rogen playing lazy stoners in ''Pineapple Express.'' ''As hard as I work in film,'' Mr. Franco said, ''it's my day job.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COLUMBIA PICTURES
 DARREN MICHAELS/COLUMBIA PICTURES) (AR50) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (89%); MARRIAGE (84%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMEDY FILMS (73%); SPORT HUNTING (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%)

PERSON: KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (54%); HAYDEN PANETTIERE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LYON, FRANCE (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (88%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



317 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Is Newer Better? Not Always

 BODY:
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that an astonishing half or more of the increased spending for health care in recent decades is due to technological, surgical and clinical advances.
For the most part, such advances are a cause for celebration. But an expensive new drug is not always better than an older, cheaper drug, and sometimes a new technology or treatment that is highly effective for some patients is unnecessary or even dangerous for others.
The system almost seems designed to keep driving up costs. 
To win approval, drugs and many devices must undergo tests for safety and effectiveness. For drugs, there is usually no comparison to products already approved. For both, there is no consideration of cost. Once drugs or devices are approved to treat one class of patients or illnesses, doctors can use them for virtually any ailment they please. Manufacturers eagerly promote their most expensive products to doctors and patients.
Patients have few ways to judge what is best for improving health or saving money. They must rely on doctors who may have insufficient information -- or economic incentives to pick the costliest treatment.
The new health care reform law makes a start at figuring this out. It sets up a new system to evaluate the comparative effectiveness of drugs, treatments and medical devices. But, after all of the cynical demagoguing about ''death panels,'' it limits the extent to which the studies can be used to help hold down costs.
No one wants to bar patients from getting the treatment they need. But without curtailing the use of unnecessary, overly costly and even dangerous new technologies and surgical procedures, there is little hope of restraining the relentless rise in health care costs.
That is a truth that American politicians and taxpayers cannot afford to ignore for much longer.
The good news on medical advancements is undeniable. Doctors can now keep patients alive with improved dialysis treatments while they await a kidney transplant, replace disintegrating hips and knees with artificial joints, and spot internal growths with high-tech imaging devices that avoid the need for exploratory surgery.
Even costly therapies can end up saving money as well as lives. Studies by respected economists have shown that spending on new cardiac treatments, neonatal care for low-birth-weight infants, and mental health drugs have more than paid for themselves.
This is not always the case. Consider the prostate-specific antigen test, which is widely used to screen men for possible prostate cancer. In an Op-Ed piece in The Times in March, Richard J. Ablin, the doctor who discovered prostate-specific antigen, described the test as ''hardly more effective than a coin toss'' at distinguishing who is at risk, and lamented that the test's popularity has led to ''a hugely expensive public health disaster.''
Each year some 30 million American men undergo the test at a cost of at least $3 billion, and many go on to have surgery, intensive radiation or other damaging treatments that may not have been necessary.
Or consider complex fusion surgery to relieve lower back pain. An article and an editorial in the April 7 issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association deplored the rapidly rising use of this surgery, which fuses multiple disks in the spine, in patients who would have done better, and faced fewer risks, with simpler surgery that eases pressure on the nerves without fusion.
The explanation for the boom was likely economic. Surgeons were paid 10 times as much for the complex surgery, hospitals were paid three and a half times as much, and manufacturers reaped a bonanza selling $50,000 worth of implants for the complex surgery, compared with little or no profit from the simpler surgery.
Research that systematically compares the effectiveness of different treatments and drugs is clearly needed.
The Obama administration started the process, committing $1.1 billion from stimulus funds to finance comparative studies. The new reform law will move that ahead, setting up a nonprofit, independent institute to organize the work. The comptroller general will appoint a governing board of 19 members, representing patients, doctors, manufacturers and others, including two designated federal health officials.
If the institute works the way it is supposed to, patients, doctors and the government will have better information about what works and what does not, what may be worth the extra cost and what does not make sense. Even then, the legislative language is so convoluted there is no guarantee that even the most credible findings will help ensure that patients get the best and most cost-effective treatment.
With critics wrongly charging that these studies would insert government bureaucrats between patients and their doctors and end up denying access to essential care, reformers pulled their punches.
The institute is supposed to make regular reports of its findings but is carefully restricted as to what it can say. It cannot make recommendations to Medicare or private insurers about what they should or should not cover. It cannot tell doctors what treatments to use, or recommend how much doctors and hospitals should be paid for any services.
Depending on how the White House decides to proceed, the effort could begin to change things. The law says the secretary of health and human services cannot deny Medicare coverage of services ''solely'' on the basis of comparative effectiveness research, but it does not prevent the use of such findings in conjunction with other factors in making coverage decisions. Those decisions generally influence what private insurers cover as well.
The secretary needs to press the panel to get the research going and then begin including the findings in Medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions. Critics will howl. If the panel does its job right -- and politicians have the courage to make the case -- both patients and taxpayers will benefit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PROSTATE DISEASE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); DRUG EFFICACY (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); MEN (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); DIALYSIS (76%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (74%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); MENTAL HEALTH (71%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); PROSTATE CANCER (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



318 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: A Wealth Of Choices For a Value Investor

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
IS the stock market making you queasy? Even with the market's September surge, the losses, stress, and turmoil of the last lost decade provide plenty of reasons to stay on the sidelines.
Why not just hold cash, bonds or gold? They have done better than stocks for months, and investors have pulled billions of dollars out of domestic stock funds. But the standard reasons for sticking with equities still make some sense: over the long haul, stocks have produced better returns than other assets, and if you pick the right stocks -- a big ''if,'' to be sure -- you may have spectacular results.
In practice, though, betting on stocks demands a higher level of confidence than many people now possess. Is there a way to improve the odds? 
Robert A. Olstein, a forensic accountant turned money manager based in Purchase, N.Y., thinks so. He practices a version of value investing -- the disciplined, often-contrarian approach to security analysis refined decades ago by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd.
Mr. Olstein, 69, looks for stocks that are selling at a significant discount to their ''intrinsic value'' -- what a company would be worth if it were privately held. For his flagship mutual fund, the Olstein All Cap Value fund, he says he is finding more bargains among American blue-chip stocks than he has ever seen.
''In this market, the pickings for a value investor are easy,'' he says.
His fund's biggest holdings are household names that are generating significant amounts of cash, yet selling at prices he finds very reasonable. They include Intel, Microsoft, Macy's, Xerox, DuPont, Radio Shack, Alliance Bernstein, Home Depot, Legg Mason and Ingersoll Rand. Their abundant cash flows should enable them to make moves like share buybacks, increased dividend payouts, mergers and acquisitions, which, he said, should serve as a catalyst to raise prices.
Few people see the market as he does, he says. ''The only reason you ever get value,'' he observes, ''is when the masses disagree with you or don't see the value that you see.''
As usual, the ''great mass'' of investors is overreacting, he says: ''The frustration from decadelong negative returns from owning equities has overtaken reason when bargains exist across the board, especially in the most respected companies in corporate America.''
He won't predict the market's near-term direction, except to say that eventually, it will shift. ''Investors, looking backward, will once again realize they missed opportunities,'' he says.
How does Mr. Olstein draw his conclusions?
''Cash is king,'' he says. He spends a lot of time crunching numbers in a search for strong cash flow, and his winnowing process goes something like this:
First, he scrutinizes a company's financial reports in an effort to determine whether they paint an accurate picture. In this work, he has considerable expertise: he was an auditor with the old Arthur Andersen & Company, and then, in the 1970s, was co-author of The Quality of Earnings, a financial newsletter that, in its day, was perhaps the foremost authority on spotting the gray areas of corporate accounting.
''If you're analyzing a company,'' he says, ''you first have to understand what they're really earning, as opposed to what they say they're earning.''
What he doesn't do much is talk to management, trusting instead in his ability to analyze the cold numbers.
While Graham and Dodd focused on corporate balance sheets, Mr. Olstein emphasizes income statements. He looks, in particular, at ''free cash flow'' -- cash, after subtracting capital expenditures and working capital -- and seeks companies that are likely to generate strong cash flows yet are priced very cheaply. Because Treasury yields are extremely low, the cash flow of many equity shares is particularly attractive now, he says.
His long-term track record is strong, but he had a miserable 2008, when his fund lost 43 percent. After he failed to realize that the government wouldn't ''rescue'' Lehman Brothers bondholders, he said, he had to liquidate a variety of holdings in financial shares, taking big losses. But even when including that horrible year, the fund has outperformed the market since its founding in 1995 -- beating the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index by nearly three percentage points, annualized, with a return through Aug. 30 of 8.86 percent net of fees, versus 5.88 percent for the index.
Could the fund be damaged again by a severe downdraft? It's quite possible.
Julian Koski, managing director of Transparent Value, a subsidiary of Guggenheim Partners, which also emphasizes free cash flow in its analysis, says his calculations show that the market is far from cheap. While he acknowledges that his method doesn't factor in growth in future cash flows, he says that based on past returns, ''there's only a 43 percent probability'' that the S.& P. 500's current prices will be supported over the next 90 days.
''It's a time to be very careful,'' he said.
AND if bears like David Rosenberg of Gluskin Sheff & Associates are correct, the economy and the stock market will experience serious setbacks in the next few years. In a protracted decline, the values perceived by Mr. Olstein could be ignored by the great mass of investors for some time to come.
Mr. Olstein says economic growth will continue over the next few years, even if it is modest. Corporate America is quite profitable, he says, and has been holding back on deploying its considerable cash reserves.
''Our question is not if, but when, does cash start flowing,'' he says.
Companies will use that cash, he says, ''to fund internal growth, hire new employees, make strategic acquisitions of companies selling at material discounts or just be returned to shareholders in the form of increased dividends and/or share buybacks.'' In his view, it's a great time to buy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Olstein says he is finding more bargains than ever among blue-chip stocks. ''In this market, the pickings for a value investor are easy,'' he says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); FORENSICS (53%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (54%); RADIOSHACK CORP (53%); LEGG MASON INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); RSH (NYSE) (53%); LM (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



319 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: A Capital Mistake

BYLINE: By RICHARD X. BOVE. 
Richard X. Bove is the senior vice president of equities research at a brokerage firm.

 BODY:
Lutz, Fla.
EVER since the economic bubble burst, the Federal Reserve has opted for an easy monetary policy -- maintaining the size of its balance sheet by buying Treasuries and aiming for low interest rates. Despite this, the money supply of the United States does not appear to be growing.
In fact, by many measures -- like MZM, which tracks the liquid money supply in the economy, and M2, which includes deposit and retail money market funds in addition to cash -- the money supply is actually shrinking on a year-over-year basis. While in 2005 the Fed stopped publishing its assessment of the broadest money measurement -- called M3 -- by some estimates that figure is shrinking at the fastest rate since the Great Depression.
Why are the Fed's efforts failing? Because the nation's banks are shrinking. At the end of 2008, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation data showed that the American banks it insured -- around 8,000 of them -- had $13.84 trillion in assets. At the end of the second quarter of this year, they held a total of $13.22 trillion -- a decline of $620 billion. 
Fewer assets means fewer loans. From the summer of 2008, just before the financial crisis, to the present, business loans made by American banks declined from $1.49 trillion to $1.175 trillion, a drop of some $315 billion. Mortgages on one-to-four-family homes declined from $2.155 trillion to $1.874 trillion. Over all, the total value of loans in the American banking system has fallen from $7.996 trillion to $7.395 trillion -- a drop of $600 billion.
There are many reasons for this. The size of the credit market is smaller today because banks will no longer make risky loans to marginal borrowers. Additionally, commercial companies have seen their cash flows improve because the economy is still growing (albeit too slowly). Therefore, corporations do not need as many bank loans.
However, the main reason bank lending has declined may be that the banks' capital requirements have increased, and this encourages them not to lend. They certainly don't have a shortage of capital. The F.D.I.C.'s data shows that the common equity in the banking system -- the amount of money invested -- as a percentage of all bank assets is now at the same level as it was in 1937. If one calculates what is called the banks' ''capital ratio,'' which is done by adding the banks' reserves and common equity and then dividing by the assets, it appears that the banking system has more capital than at any time since 1934.
Yet banks are sitting on the money rather than getting it out into the economy. Why? Because ever since the collapse, politicians and policymakers have been insisting that risky lending by the banks was the prime culprit, and have demanded that banks build up a cushion of capital to protect the system.
In the past 18 months, in order to meet these demands for higher capital ratios, banks have raised some $192 billion by selling stock -- despite declining prices -- and attempting to grow earnings. But this has not been enough for the regulators. The banks have also had to shrink their balance sheets -- that is, to have fewer loans outstanding.
The trouble with overcapitalizing banks is that when banks cut back on loans, they start a domino effect. When a loan is paid off, money is subtracted from the overall money supply. And while economists can debate whether a growing money supply is necessary for economic growth, it is very unusual for a nation's economy to grow when its money supply is shrinking.
But this hasn't stopped regulators, through laws like the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, and banking agreements like Basel II and III, from demanding ever-higher capital ratios at the banks. And they are doing this at the same time as the new law is restricting some of the financial instruments that banks use to raise capital, like trust-preferred securities, which are a hybrid of equity and debt. In essence, the government has weakened the banks' access to capital while demanding they increase their capital ratios.
Still another wrinkle is that Congress and regulators have changed the way they measure a bank's capital. It used to be calculated simply by adding a bank's common equity to its reserves. Today, however, the authorities use a measure called Tier 1 capital. This is an extraordinarily complex calculation that no longer uses banks' assets to determine bank capital-to-asset ratios.
Instead, Tier 1 uses a new concept called ''risk-weighted assets.'' Without going into the details, what this means is that the new capital calculations penalize banks for making loans and reward them for holding cash and government-backed securities. So banks have understandably been dumping loans and adding cash and Treasury bonds. Before the banking crisis, cash and Treasuries accounted for 5.7 percent of American banks' assets. They now account for 9.4 percent.
Just look at the biggest American banks. Bank of America, while shrinking its assets and loan portfolio, has $172 billion in cash on its balance sheet. Citibank is sitting on $185 billion in cash; JPMorgan Chase has $72 billion. Yet just try to get a new loan from any of them.
For smaller banks the problem is bigger. Community banks have relied on trust-preferred securities to build their capital for decades. Not only are they prohibited from using these instruments in the future, but they must replace them with common equity -- that is, they have to sell stock in their company. It is unlikely that they will be able to do this in the current market, as banks' stocks are selling well below their actual net worth. As a result, many will go out of business or get bought out at distressed prices by bigger banks, giving those banks greater control of what will eventually be smaller markets.
Given the political and popular animus toward banks, it is unrealistic to hope that the capital ratio requirements that have been put into effect over the past two years will be eased. But it is critical that the government not raise them from this point on and that it allow the banks to increase their capital from their day-to-day business operations as well as by using instruments like long-term senior debt securities (which mature after 10 years) that have proved reliable over the years.
Nobody wants another economic collapse a decade down the road. But that's no reason to stifle the recovery. In forcing banks to sit on their money, the government and the bank regulators have not considered the effect of their actions on the nation's money supply and the economy as a whole.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CASH FLOW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (65%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



320 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IDEA LAB; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Engineering Terror

BYLINE: By DAVID BERREBY. 
David Berreby writes the Mind Matters blog for Bigthink.com and is the author of ''Us and Them: The Science of Identity.''

 BODY:
They say they believe in freedom and share our values. They say a few bad apples shouldn't bring down judgment on their entire kind. Don't be fooled. Though they walk among us with impunity, they are, in the words of Henry Farrell, a political scientist at George Washington University, ''a group that is notoriously associated with terrorist violence and fundamentalist political beliefs.''
They are engineers. 
Farrell, of course, was kidding. He posted that comment on a blog shortly after Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab (confessed Al Qaeda operative and engineering student) tried to blow up an airliner over Detroit last winter. But the satire was rooted in a statistical fact: in the ranks of captured and confessed terrorists, engineers and engineering students are significantly overrepresented. Maybe that's a numerological accident. The sociologist Diego Gambetta and the political scientist Steffen Hertog don't think so.
Each month, Gambetta and Hertog's database grows. Last December, Abdulmutallab's attempt over Detroit. In February, Joseph Andrew Stack, a software engineer, crashed his plane into I.R.S. offices in Austin, Tex. In March, John Patrick Bedell, an engineering grad student, opened fire at an entrance to the Pentagon. In early May, Faisal Shahzad (bachelor of science in computer science and engineering) was arrested at Kennedy Airport for a failed attempt to set off a bomb in Times Square. Also in May, Faiz Mohammad, a civil engineer, was caught at Karachi's airport with batteries and an electrical circuit hidden in his shoes. And going back, of the 9/11 conspirators who had been educated beyond high school, eight studied engineering. As this list suggests, the phenomenon isn't confined to Muslims or Middle Easterners.
In fact, thinking in terms of religion, nation and class has failed to explain why, for example, out of thousands of normal-acting sons of middle-class, moderate Muslim families from Nigeria, apparently only Abdulmutallab took the dive into terrorist plots. On the familiar social-science instruments, he looks the same as countless nonterrorists. What are we missing?
In a paper published last year in The European Journal of Sociology, Gambetta and Hertog argue that the engineer-terrorist connection is part of the answer: it is a new window onto what Gambetta calls the ''hidden logic'' of society. Though the difference in susceptibility is very small -- ''it's like saying the probability that you will be struck by lightning is one in a million,'' Gambetta says, ''and the probability for an engineer to be struck by lightning is four in a million'' -- it is, they say, real.
For their recent study, the two men collected records on 404 men who belonged to violent Islamist groups active over the past few decades (some in jail, some not). Had those groups reflected the working-age populations of their countries, engineers would have made up about 3.5 percent of the membership. Instead, nearly 20 percent of the militants had engineering degrees. When Gambetta and Hertog looked at only the militants whose education was known for certain to have gone beyond high school, close to half (44 percent) had trained in engineering. Among those with advanced degrees in the militants' homelands, only 18 percent are engineers.
The two authors found the same high ratio of engineers in most of the 21 organizations they examined, including Jemaah Islamiya in Southeast Asia and Hamas and Islamic Jihad in the Middle East. Sorting the militants according to their 30 homelands showed the same pattern: engineers represented a fifth of all militants from every nation except one, and nearly half of those with advanced degrees.
One seemingly obvious explanation for the presence of engineers in violent groups lies in the terrorist's job description. Who, after all, is least likely to confuse the radio with the landing gear, as Gambetta puts it, or the red wire with the green? But if groups need geeks for political violence, then engineering degrees ought to turn up in the rosters of all terrorist groups that plant bombs, hijack planes and stage kidnappings. And that's not the case.
Gambetta and Hertog found engineers only in right-wing groups -- the ones that claim to fight for the pious past of Islamic fundamentalists or the white-supremacy America of the Aryan Nations (founder: Richard Butler, engineer) or the minimal pre-modern U.S. government that Stack and Bedell extolled.
Among Communists, anarchists and other groups whose shining ideal lies in the future, the researchers found almost no engineers. Yet these organizations mastered the same technical skills as the right-wingers. Between 1970 and 1978, for instance, the Baader-Meinhof gang in Germany staged kidnappings, assassinations, bank robberies and bombings. Seventeen of its members had college or graduate degrees, mostly in law or the humanities. Not one studied engineering.
The engineer mind-set, Gambetta and Hertog suggest, might be a mix of emotional conservatism and intellectual habits that prefers clear answers to ambiguous questions -- ''the combination of a sharp mind with a loyal acceptance of authority.'' Do people become engineers because they are this way? Or does engineering work shape them? It's probably a feedback loop of both, Gambetta says.
Economic frustration also matters, Gambetta says. In their sample of militants, there was only one homeland out of 30 in which engineers were less common: Saudi Arabia -- where engineers have always had plenty of work. But ''engineers' peculiar cognitive traits and dispositions'' made them slightly more likely than accountants, waiters or philosophers to react to career frustration by adopting violent, right-wing beliefs.
William A. Wulf, a former president of the National Academy of Engineering, is, no surprise, no fan of the Gambetta-Hertog theory. ''If you have a million coin flips,'' he says, ''it's almost certain that somewhere in those coin flips there will be 20 heads in a row.'' The sample of militants Gambetta and Hertog used was simply too small for them to be sure they haven't stumbled into a meaningless numerical accident, he says. The theory, according to Wulf, misrepresents what engineers are about. ''A person who is rigid,'' he says, ''is a bad engineer.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OWEN FREEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); RELIGION (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); AL-QAEDA (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); CHRISTMAS 2009 AIRLINE BOMBING ATTEMPT (75%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); AIRLINES (70%); ARRESTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



321 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BOSTON JOURNAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: A Downtown Hub Is Missed, and a Replacement Is Stalled

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Two years have passed since the demolition of Filene's Basement, where generations of Bostonians tussled over cut-rate designer clothes in a dingy but fiercely loved downtown store.
In its place, a $700 million tower was to rise with offices, condominiums, a hotel and a new Filene's for the bargain hungry. But the recession halted the project, possibly for good, leaving Boston with a deserted construction pit in one of its busiest neighborhoods.
''I hate to walk by it every day,'' said Donna DePrisco, whose jewelry store sits a block from the fenced-off hole. ''Everyone misses the place. Even some of my multimillionaire customers who could shop anywhere tell me how much they miss it.'' 
While such scars on the landscape are common these days, cities that gave up iconic buildings or businesses for outsize projects that may now never happen are suffering from a rising sense of regret.
In Providence, R.I., a crumbling brick facade is all that remains of the landmark Providence National Bank building, which was razed in 2005 to make way for a now-canceled residential tower.
Seattle lost a beloved example of midcentury modern architecture, a curvy-roofed building that most recently housed a Denny's restaurant, to the wrecking ball in 2008; it is still waiting for the condominiums and shops that were to open.
Other cities, including San Diego and San Francisco, have so many empty lots that officials have discussed filling them with temporary tree farms, parks or public art.
But perhaps none of those stalled projects have stirred as much angst as the one here, known as One Franklin. For nearly a century, Filene's Basement was as renowned a monument as Fenway Park and Faneuil Hall -- a plaque out front commemorated Filene's as the ''Hub of the Universe.'' Long before outlet malls, it promised the thrill of the hunt and left generations of Bostonians with stories of tugs of war fought, treasures found and friendships forged in its drab aisles.
''Everyone would dig through those bins, and you never knew what beautiful things you'd come away with,'' said Anne Peckham, a devotee whose relationship with Filene's was like Holly Golightly's with Tiffany's. ''If you had a tough day, there was nothing that would brighten it more than going down to the Basement.''
Tempers erupted here last month when one of the project's developers, Vornado Realty Trust, based in New York, won approval to build a skyscraper there that will rival the Empire State Building in height. Mayor Thomas M. Menino threatened to revoke building permits for the Boston site if construction did not resume this month. ''It shows arrogance on their part,'' he said. ''They could care less about Boston, and that bothers me to no end.''
A similar situation played out in New York in the 1990s, when Vornado let the former Alexander's department store on Lexington Avenue sit vacant and blighted for years. Mr. Menino invoked Alexander's in an angry letter to Vornado executives, accusing them of ''a consistent policy of indifference.''
Bud Perrone, a spokesman for Vornado, declined to comment, as did Marcy Syms, whose company, the Syms Corporation, now owns Filene's Basement.
In a letter to the city last month, Sandeep Mathrani, an executive vice president of Vornado, wrote that it was still seeking ''a suitable solution for the site that can be financed and meet the city's goals for the area.'' But the letter, which was also signed by John B. Hynes III, a co-developer, offered no timeline.
There are now 27 other Filene's Basement stores in nine states and Washington, including one in the Back Bay neighborhood of Boston. But none hold the cachet of the original 1909 downtown store. Susan Edbril, a psychologist whose grandmother worked at Filene's for almost 40 years, said the demolition did not seem so bad when a new version of the store was expected within a few years. ''People didn't have a chance to say goodbye or to grieve,'' Dr. Edbril said, ''because they thought it was going to be there again.''
Dr. Edbril and Michael Bavaro, a filmmaker, recently finished a documentary called ''Voices from the Basement'' about the store and its devotees, including former Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, the actress Estelle Parsons and Representative Barney Frank. Mr. Frank described the store as Boston's great equalizer, drawing rich and poor alike with its famous automatic markdown system.
The film was supposed to include footage of the new store, Dr. Edbril said, but she eventually gave up.
She is still besieged by people eager to share their Filene's Basement stories. ''Everyone in this city has one,'' Dr. Edbril said. ''If you think about that and what was lost, it's psychologically huge.''
In Providence, David O'Brien's art shop, Picture This, looks out on the neglected facade of the razed Providence National Bank building, which is supported by rusting steel beams that block the sidewalk and part of the street.
''It's a hazard at this point,'' he said. ''I would just as soon take that lot and turn it into a park, a parking lot -- anything -- until they have the money to build again.''
Mr. Menino, who has a history of highly public battles with developers, rejected an offer by the developers to move ahead with a scaled-down project that would include some stores, including a Filene's, and a parking garage.
''That's a moneymaker for them, but what's it do for the city?'' he said.
He said he was among those who missed roaming the aisles of Filene's, where aunts took him on Sundays as a child and where he snagged piles of ties and suits over the years. Like him, Mrs. Peckham recalled how Bostonians used to love ducking out of work for an hour or two to comb the racks.
''When people were overcome with solving their problems,'' she said, ''I used to say, 'Is there any harm in just leaving the office and going to look at beautiful things?' It was a lot cheaper and a lot more fun than having a psychiatrist.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The original Filene's Basement opened in Boston in 1909 and served as a heart of the community. It was razed two years ago, and a $700 million tower, with a replacement store, was to rise at the site. The project was halted by the recession. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHERINE TAYLOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); APPROVALS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESTAURANTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (71%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (61%); FILENE'S BASEMENT INC (58%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (61%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



322 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON TELEVISION; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Embracing Malaise as a Plot Point

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
DECLINE and the erosion of the American dream infuse public discourse, so it's inevitable that a streak of pessimism courses through the best new fall shows.
These are comedies and dramas that don't fight the notion of a downward slide; they embrace it with the rueful self-mockery that buoys other former empires, be they British, Italian or French -- if the French had a better sense of humor about themselves.
The most promising of the sitcoms, ''Raising Hope,'' on Fox, which stars Martha Plimpton and Cloris Leachman, centers on an aimless young man named Jimmy Chance (Lucas Neff) who discovers he is a father after the baby's mother dies -- in prison. Jimmy, a pool-cleaning-service dropout, chooses to raise the baby at home with his working-class parents and senile grandmother in the kind of lunatic shabbiness usually reserved for George Booth's New Yorker cartoons. 
The entire premise of ''Outsourced,'' a show that NBC has positioned as the next ''Office,'' is downsizing. A young office manager (Ben Rappaport) is transferred to Mumbai when his novelties company replaces American workers in the call center with eager, if not always canny, Indian workers. When one of the employees stumbles trying to take a phone order from the United States, the customer hollers, ''Am I calling freaking India to get a mug that says, 'America's No. 1'?''
Even ''Mike & Molly,''a CBS romantic comedy about a police officer and a teacher, can't shake off the national preoccupation with rising obesity rates. Mike (Billy Gardell) and Molly (Melissa McCarthy), who are charming and also dangerously fat, meet at an overeaters' self-help group.
The dyspeptic mood clearly isn't just about money. The recession has been chewed over for more than a year in comedies like ''The Middle'' and ''Hung,'' both of which are wry comedies about people struggling to make ends meet in the rustier parts of the Midwest.
This season's offerings posit a more lasting condition of lowered expectations for life. ''My Generation,'' an ABC drama, follows a group of friends 10 years out of high school. Even the more successful classmates -- one is a Congressional aide -- had higher hopes for themselves, and the country, at their 2000 graduation. The show is presented as a documentary in the style of Michael Apted's ''Up'' film series, but mostly, it's a ''Reality Bites'' for the post-grunge generation.
A few new comedies still rely on the mockumentary conceit made popular by the original British version of ''The Office'' and ''Arrested Development'' and still in bloom last year on ''Modern Family'' and ''Parks and Recreation.''
It's getting a little old. ''Raising Hope'' and ''Outsourced'' manage quite well without it, and it is only lightly used on another Fox comedy, ''Running Wilde.'' The trend isn't dying, however; it is spreading to dramas. ''My Generation'' isn't the only one. ''No Ordinary Family,'' on ABC, also breaches a kind of fourth wall.
One reason the approach is still so tempting to producers could be that, as the line between comedy and drama keeps blurring, a fictional documentary format serves both. It adds an edge of poignancy to sitcoms whose characters confide, often self-deludingly, in one-on-one confessions to the camera.
On dramas the fake camera adds some distance and even levity to a the narrative. Most of all the extra lens adds an extra layer of sardonic detachment for the viewer -- a social anthropologist's-eye view.
Tellingly there aren't many rich people in this season's mix; even the middle class is under-represented. ''Running Wilde'' is the exception -- it's an ''Arthur''-like romp with Will Arnett as a shallow, drunken heir to an oil fortune who wants to reconnect with his poor, do-gooder childhood sweetheart, Emmy (Keri Russell).
The same team that created ''Arrested Development'' is responsible for ''Running Wilde,'' and Mr. Arnett is funny, but the pilot doesn't have that seminal series' inspired madness. It could be that ''Arrested Development'' sparked so many comedies that its brand of wicked satire (and mockumentary) seems almost conventional. But it's also possible that viewers -- or television writers -- have less tolerance for the ultra-wealthy these days.
Money isn't funny or madcap anywhere else, and certainly not on the two best-conceived new dramas. Martin Scorsese directed the first episode of ''Boardwalk Empire,'' an HBO series set in Atlantic City at the dawn of Prohibition. The series revels in violence and crazy, profligate wealth -- all of it a product of crime and corruption. ''Lone Star,'' on Fox, is a drama about a con man trying to make his fortune in Texas, but he's a self-hating flimflammer.
Failure, or the fear of failure, isn't new to television, obviously. It's an anxiety so widely shared that it can best be treated as a joke. It's almost impossible to think of a television comedy that isn't rooted in some kind of humiliating setback, from ''I Love Lucy'' to ''Arrested Development'' and ''Modern Family.''
The only difference this season is that most characters rise and pratfall against a backdrop of national malaise instead of affluence or bourgeois propriety. Even the exception, ''No Ordinary Family'' about people who develop superpowers, doesn't really buck the rule very much. What stands out is not that the father, played by Michael Chiklis (''The Shield''), can leap tall buildings in a single bound, but that the son has a learning disability, and the parents are estranged.
On ''My Generation'' an unseen interviewer asks Steve (Michael Stahl-David), the class overachiever, why he surfs and tends bar. ''You were going to conquer the world,'' she says. ''What happened?''
There is a pause. Then Steve replies quietly: ''Nothing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from above, fall sitcom haves and have-nots: from left, Robert Michael Morris, Will Arnett and Mel Rodriguez in ''Running Wilde,'' about a lovable heir to an oil fortune
Lucas Neff as a new working-class father in ''Raising Hope''
Ben Rappaport goes to India in ''Outsourced.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MYLES ARONOWITZ/FOX
HARPER SMITH/NBC
 GREG GAYNE/FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION COMEDIES (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); OUTSOURCING (73%); CALL CENTERS (65%); OBESITY (63%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (75%) MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



323 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Is Mayor Daley's Kind of Town

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
ALL cities change over time, but Chicago may be in a class by itself. It took a measure of sheer willpower to transform the ''hog butcher for the world,'' as Chicago was known around the middle of the last century, into one of the most forward-looking of cities, with an abundance of public art and green space alongside an ever-expanding skyline.
The greater part of the transformation took place over the last two decades, under the command of Mayor Richard M. Daley, who manifested his vision in buildings, flowers and sculpture. His announcement last week that he would not seek a seventh term in 2011 prompted Chicagoans to reflect on the place they inhabit today. 
Mayor Daley ''takes a keen interest in architecture and built spaces,'' said Jason Neises, a vice president at the Chicago Architecture Foundation. ''He's put huge amounts of personnel, money and effort into guiding a particular kind of development that enhances the attractiveness of the city.''
Mr. Daley inherited a Chicago on a gritty decline, and he helped make it economically viable. He led an effort to resuscitate downtown, ensuring that the Loop would be full of people at night and on weekends. He built new parks and refurbished old ones, attracting visitors by the millions. He gave incentives to developers who emphasized landscaping, art and environmentally friendly buildings. He was a stickler about trash, often carrying a small pad of paper and taking notes on the location of overflowing garbage cans.
But he was not always transparent in his decision-making. And critics say that downtown's renaissance came at the expense of poor, far-flung neighborhoods. Still, Chicago today is no doubt different from the Chicago of yesteryears, and Mr. Daley is largely the reason why.
The Bean and the Green Roof
''Cloud Gate,'' the massive, reflective steel structure designed by the sculptor Anish Kapoor, is one of Chicago's signa- ture works of public art, drawing crowds who gawk day and night at the reflected city skyline.Known around town as ''the bean,'' it is also an anchor attraction in Millen- nium Park, which replaced exposed railroad lines along Michigan Avenue. Some consider the 24.5-acre park Mr. Daley's greatest triumph, even though it went far over budget and opened four years late. The park is also known for the swirling steel ribbons of Frank Gehry's bandshell, below, which crowns an outdoor concert space.In his quest to make Chicago ''the greenest city in America,'' Mr. Daley also put a green roof on City Hall, below left.
Cabrini-Green
In the late 1990s, Mr. Daley directed city officials to destroy high-rise housing projects for the poor, like Cabrini-Green, right, which had become iconic symbols of American ghetto life and of Chicago. The plan was perhaps the most ambi- tious of any city's efforts at modern slum clearance. Today, entire projects--most of which rose during the tenure of Mr. Daley's father, Mayor Richard J. Daley --have been cleared, and new mixed- income developments, far right, have begun to take their place. But the results are far from perfect: After more than a decade, some poor residents have been scattered to neighborhoods as trouble- some as the ones they left.
Michael Reese Hospital
Last year, in the frenzy of planning leading up to Chicago's bid to host the 2016 Olympic Summer Games, the city purchased this 40-acre hospital campus in the Bronzeville neighborhood and be- gan to tear it down to make way for an Olympic Village -- despite protests from residents and preservationists. Many of the post-World War II buildings were prized because they had been designed by the architect Walter Gropius, founder of the Bauhaus School. After demolition began, Chicago was among the first cities to be eliminated as a potential Olympic host. The Games went to Rio de Janeiro, and the hospital site languishes.
Meigs Field
The lakefront airport did not stand a chance when Mr. Daley, against the wishes of business commuters and small-plane enthusiasts, decided to turn it into another park. In 2003, after years of pushing to close the airport, Mr. Daley unilaterally ordered, without public announcement, bulldozers to carve X's on the runway in the middle of the night. Mr. Daley's said the airport, near downtown, posed a security risk. Later, he admitted that there was no specific threat. Birds land there now, as it is mostly green space.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BRIAN KERSEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CHICAGO HISTORY MUSEUM/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUDGETS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



324 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 10854 words

HEADLINE: New Faces, Old Masters And a Shiny 'Ring'

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
Dates are subject to change.
SEPTEMBER
LUNCHTIME CONCERTS Even in a better economy, who can pass up a free concert, especially when the performers are first-rate and the repertory is compelling? Following on free lunchtime Beethoven and Bach cycles of recent years, the Miller Theater now sets its sights on 20th-century American composers, performed by the Voxare String Quartet and friends (among them, Sarah Wolfson, soprano; Adrian Daurov, cellist; and Stephen Gosling, pianist). The composers examined are Samuel Barber, Sept. 13-15; Aaron Copland, Oct. 18-20; Charles Ives, Feb. 7-9; and Ives and Virgil Thomson, March 7-9. Philosophy Hall, Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street; (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com. 
RICCARDO MUTI The New York Philharmonic courted him more than once, but the Chicago Symphony Orchestra was more persuasive, so Mr. Muti now begins his tenure as that ensemble's music director. As a gracious community gesture, Mr. Muti and his players will offer a free concert of Verdi, Liszt, Tchaikovsky and Respighi showpieces in Chicago's Millennium Park on Sept. 19. But the real action begins with Mr. Muti's first subscription week, a pairing of Berlioz's ''Symphonie Fantastique'' and its lesser-known sequel, ''Lelio,'' for which the actor Gerard Depardieu will provide narration. Sept. 23-25, 28. Symphony Center, Chicago; (312) 294-3000, cso.org.
MARC-ANDRE HAMELIN This superb Canadian pianist is a persuasive interpreter in everything from the chiseled Classicism of Haydn to the mind-bending Romanticism of Scriabin. He is less often heard as a composer (though he has recorded some of his music for Hyperion), but he is showing that side of his musical persona in the informal atmosphere of a Greenwich Village club. (On May 11, Mr. Hamelin will also play a more typical recital, with works by Haydn, Schumann, Wolpe, Faure and Liszt, at Zankel Hall.) Sept. 21. Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, West Village; (212) 505-3474, lepoissonrouge.com.
'DELUSION' Laurie Anderson's latest music drama, presented as part of the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Next Wave Festival, weaves together 20 short stories, mythical and personal, that explore delusions -- humorous, scary, fleeting and firmly rooted -- that are commonly shared. Expect Ms. Anderson's grippingly idiosyncratic mixture of speaking, singing and electric violin playing, along with puppetry, Tibetan horns and Arabic strings. Sept. 21-26, 28-30; Oct 1-3. Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene; (718) 636-4100, bam.org.
NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Alan Gilbert opens his second season as the orchestra's music director with a curious program. The Philharmonic and Wynton Marsalis's Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra first collaborate on Mr. Marsalis's ''Swing Symphony,'' a six-movement overview of jazz history: the early, nonexperimental end of it, anyway, since that is what interests Mr. Marsalis. The Philharmonic reclaims the stage for Strauss's ''Don Juan'' and Hindemith's ''Symphonic Metamorphosis on Themes by Carl Maria von Weber.'' Sept. 22. Avery Fisher Hall.
GEMS PROJECT Gotham Early Music Scene, devoted to building the audience for pre-Romantic music in New York, offers an annual series of three showcase concerts at which several ensembles play short sets. This year's lineup is purposefully varied. Parthenia, the excellent viol consort, shares the first concert with TENET, a vocal ensemble with a broad repertory, and Four Nations, an instrumental quartet performing works by Francour and Telemann. But if you can hear only one program, make it the last: the vocal sextet Lionheart sings music from the time of Henry VIII; Asteria performs 15th-century Burgundian music; and Rebel plays works by Handel, Telemann and Leclair (Sept. 25, at the Jerome L. Greene Performance Space at WNYC in the West Village). Sept. 23. St. Ignatius of Antioch Church, 552 West End Avenue; (212) 866-0468, gemsny.org.
'IL POSTINO' Opera composers are apparently finished mining the evening news for subjects; now their eyes are trained on the silver screen. The latest film-to-opera transformation is ''Il Postino,'' by Daniel Catan, who wrote both the libretto and the score. The Los Angeles Opera presents the premiere, with Mario Ruoppolo as Charles Castronovo, the postman of the title. Placido Domingo sings Pablo Neruda in a cast that also includes Vladimir Chernov, Amanda Squitieri and Cristina Gallardo-Domas. Opens Sept. 23. Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, Los Angeles; (213) 972-7219, laopera.com.
THE PROPENSITY OF SOUND The Issue Project Room, in collaboration with the magazine The Wire, presents a series of programs featuring music of Pauline Oliveros, Eliane Radigue and Laurie Spiegel. Sept. 24-28. Issue Project Room, 232 Third Street, Gowanus, Brooklyn; 110 Livingston Street, Brooklyn; (718) 330-0313, issueprojectroom.org.
'DAS RHEINGOLD' The Metropolitan Opera opens its season with the first installment of the Canadian director Robert Lepage's long-awaited production of Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle. (The second installment, ''Die Walkure,'' follows on April 22.). Bryn Terfel is Wotan; James Levine conducts. Opens Sept. 27. Metropolitan Opera House.
MATA FESTIVAL Years before it became fashionable to foster interactions between pop and the avant-garde, this visionary event put its spotlight on young composers and performers who were taking steps (sometimes leaps) in that direction. The tough-edged JACK Quartet, the idiosyncratic composer-singers Corey Dargel and Gabriel Kahane, the pianist Kathleen Supove and the violinist Courtney Orlando present a concert to raise money for the festival. Sept. 27, Chelsea Art Museum, 556 West 22nd Street; (212) 563-5124, , matafestival.org.
VIENNA PHILHARMONIC The Carnegie Hall season begins with a Vienna Philharmonic mini-festival, in which the venerable orchestra is led by two conductors who are polar opposites. Nikolaus Harnoncourt, a founder of the period-instrument movement who once devoted himself almost fully to the Baroque repertory, opens the series with a Beethoven program, with the ebullient Lang Lang as soloist in the First Piano Concerto. Mr. Harnoncourt follows with a program devoted to Smetana's patriotic suite, ''Ma Vlast.'' Then he hands the baton to Gustavo Dudamel, the young Venezuelan superstar, who leads rhythmically vital works by Rossini, Julian Orbon, Bernstein and Ravel in his first program and shows a slightly more staid side in his second, with scores by Brahms, Schumann (the Cello Concerto, with Yo-Yo Ma) and Dvorak. Sept. 29-30; Oct. 2-3. Carnegie Hall.
MAHLER SIXTH SYMPHONY Alan Gilbert conducts the New York Philharmonic. Sept. 29-30, Oct. 1. Avery Fisher Hall.
NADIA BOULANGER As a teacher, Boulanger oversaw the development of several generations of American composers, from Copland to Glass. But her own music is little known. The pianist David Greilsammer takes a step toward remedying that on a recording that includes Boulanger's Fantasy for Piano and Orchestra (1912) and Alexandre Tansman's Piano Concerto No. 2 (1927). September. Naive Records.
'LIVRE DU SAINT SACREMENT' Paul Jacobs recorded Messiaen's extraordinary set of mystical meditations on the Aeolian-Skinner organ at the Church of St. Mary the Virgin on West 46th Street. September. Naxos Records.
APOLLO'S FIRE A period-instrument band from Cleveland, led by Jeanette Sorrell, this group has several discs on the way this year, starting with Monteverdi's Vespers of 1610. (Concertos by Vivaldi, Bach and Rene Duchiffre follow in March; ''Come to the River: An Early American Gathering,'' is scheduled for May.) September. Avie Records.
OCTOBER
BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA James Levine conducts an opening-night program of Wagner, with the baritone Bryn Terfel as soloist, followed by performances of Mahler's ''Resurrection'' Symphony. Oct. 2; 7-9, 12. Symphony Hall, Boston; (888) 266-1200, bso.org.
AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA Part of Leon Botstein's mission with this orchestra is to explore unusual repertory; another is to show the connections among the arts. Mr. Botstein does both in the opening concert of the orchestra's 48th season. He focuses here on the give and take between James Joyce and the composers of his time, most directly with Matyas Seiber's ''Ulysses'' (1947), based on Joyce's novel. Also on the program are George Antheil's groundbreaking ''Ballet Mecanique'' and Othmar Schoeck's ''Lebendig Begraben.'' Oct. 6. Carnegie Hall.
KRONOS QUARTET As the superstars they are, the members of the Kronos Quartet generally play at one of the big uptown halls (like Carnegie, where they will participate in Steve Reich's 75th-birthday concert in April) or at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, sometimes with sets, lighting and carefully choreographed stage movement. So they are likely to find the informal club atmosphere of Le Poisson Rouge either perfect (as consummate hipsters) or confining (as first-rate showmen) when they spend two nights there, performing music by Michael Gordon, David Lang, Terry Riley and others. Oct. 8-9. Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, West Village; (212) 505-3474, lepoissonrouge.com.
'BORIS GODUNOV' This new production of Mussorgsky's growlingly vivid historical opera was to have been the vehicle for Peter Stein's Met directing debut. But Mr. Stein withdrew, and Stephen Wadsworth has taken over the production, which has sets by Ferdinand Wogerbauer and costumes by Moidele Bickel. Rene Pape sings the title role; Valery Gergiev conducts. Opens Oct. 11. Metropolitan Opera House.
ENGLISH CONCERT Half the world seems to think that John Dowland's exquisitely doleful music was discovered by the rock singer Sting, who, to be fair, has campaigned vigorously on the Elizabethan composer's behalf. Those of us who have been Dowland obsessives since the days of the Julian Bream Consort are always happy to see new listeners join the ranks, and new players, too. Dowland's music is earlier than the English Concert's traditional fare, but Harry Bicket -- with the mezzo-soprano Alice Coote among his soloists -- leads the group in some of Dowland's greatest songs, along with Monteverdi's ''Lamento d'Arianna'' and works by Vivaldi and Handel. Oct. 13. Weill Recital Hall.
'JEPHTHA' So you reluctantly agree to lead an army against your tribe's enemies, even though your relatives have treated you shabbily over the years, and along the way, you promise God that if you win the battle, you will sacrifice whatever greets you on your return home, figuring that it will be a sheep or a goat; not, say, your beloved daughter. Here's to learning not to make rash oaths. Kent Tritle, New York's reigning choral conductor these days, can be expected to lead an enlivening performance of this moving Handel oratorio (his last) in this Sacred Music in a Sacred Space concert. Oct. 13. Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue; (212) 288-2520, stignatiusloyola.org.
'ISRAEL IN EGYPT' If you enjoy Handel's vividly pictorial choral writing in ''Messiah,'' you'll find much to admire in this oratorio as well, with its evocation of the 10 plagues visited on Egypt for its intransigence and a jubilant precursor to the ''Hallelujah'' Chorus, after the pursuing Egyptian army is drowned in the Red Sea. The fine Trinity Choir, led by its new music director, Julian Wachner, opens its season with this colorful score (which Kent Tritle and Musica Sacra will also perform on Feb. 23 at Carnegie Hall). Oct. 14. Trinity Church, Broadway at Wall Street; (212) 602-0800, trinitywallstreet.org.
'A HOUSE IN BALI' The composer Colin McPhee, devoted to Balinese gamelan music and South Asian culture generally, wrote about his encounters with them in his memoir, ''A House in Bali.'' Evan Ziporyn's opera, with a libretto by Paul Schick, was inspired by McPhee's book and uses both contemporary Western and traditional Balinese techniques. The production, part of the Next Wave Festival, is directed by Jay Scheib and performed by the Bang on a Can All Stars (of which Mr. Ziporyn is the clarinetist) with Gamelan Salukat and Western and Balinese singers and dancers. (On Oct. 30, Mr. Ziporyn is featured in an installment of the Making Music series at Zankel Hall.) Oct. 14-16. Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music. 30 Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene; (718) 636-4100, bam.org.
AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA This enterprising ensemble has been floundering lately, but the appointment of George Manahan as music director, a post he also holds at the New York City Opera, is promising. So is this opening concert in its Orchestra Underground series, ''Mystics & Magic.'' The pianist Ursula Oppens and the soprano Susan Narucki are the soloists, and the repertory includes the world premieres of Wang Jie's ''From the Other Sky'' and John Luther Adams's ''Light Within'' in its orchestral version; the New York premieres of Claude Vivier's ''Lonely Child'' and Alvin Singleton's ''BluesKonzert''; and a neglected oldie, Jacob Druckman's ''Nor Spell Nor Charm.'' That programming recipe, new works offered alongside inviting revivals, worked brilliantly for the orchestra in its early days. Oct. 15. Zankel Hall.
TILL FELLNER The unfolding Beethoven cycle by this Austrian pianist has been praised for the insight and almost improvisatory spirit of the readings. Mr. Fellner closes the series with the last three sonatas -- No. 30 in E, No. 31 in A flat and No. 32 in C minor -- a set that can seem either like three distinct adventures along Beethoven's compositional path or three huge movements of a single titanic work. Given Mr. Fellner's unpredictability, he may well find a third path of his own. Oct. 15. Metropolitan Museum.
STILE ANTICO What do you do when you have great instincts for early-music programming but a hall that is acoustically unsuited to the sound and style? The Miller Theater's solution has been to present its early-music programs elsewhere, mostly in churches. This year's series opens with the refined British vocal ensemble Stile Antico in a program devoted to meditations on the afterlife by Lassus, Dufay, Josquin and Byrd. (Harmonia Mundi also plans to release the group's holiday album -- ''Puer Natus Est,'' with 16th-century Christmas and Advent music by Tallis, White, Sheppard, Taverner, Byrd and others -- in October.) Oct. 16. Church of St. Mary the Virgin, 145 West 46th Street, Manhattan; (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com.
VALERY GERGIEV With the centenary of Mahler's death coming up in May, Mr. Gergiev offers a full cycle of the symphonies in two parts, with the Mariinsky Orchestra at Carnegie Hall and the London Symphony at Avery Fisher Hall. Oct. 17, 20-22, 24; Feb. 23, 25, 27.
PAUL O'DETTE The Music Before 1800 series, which typically offers a well-balanced mix of favorites and newcomers, opens its season with a recital by the imaginative and dexterous lutenist Paul O'Dette. The program includes fantasies and dances by three 16th-century lutenist-composers: Francesco da Milano, Alberto Ripa and a recent discovery of Mr. O'Dette's, Marco Dall'Aquila. Oct. 17. Corpus Christi Church.
PACIFICA QUARTET Shostakovich's 15 symphonies were his grand (if sometimes cryptic) public statements, but his 15 string quartets captured his more intensely private thoughts and were composed mostly (all but the first five) during the last two decades of his life. The Pacifica Quartet, in its second season as the Metropolitan Museum's quartet in residence, offers the full cycle this season, mostly in chronological order. Oct. 23, Dec. 4, Jan. 22, Feb. 19. Metropolitan Museum.
'A QUIET PLACE' The New York City Opera opens its season -- George Steel's second as general manager and artistic director -- with Leonard Bernstein's psychologically complex opera about a family that comes together at a funeral after a 20-year estrangement. Though Bernstein intended it as a sequel to ''Trouble in Tahiti,'' he eventually incorporated the earlier work into ''A Quiet Place'' as a series of flashbacks. Oddly, the work has never been staged in New York and has rarely been seen since its 1983 premiere. But it has some delightful music -- most, admittedly, from ''Trouble in Tahiti'' -- and giving it a hearing (in a new production by Christopher Alden) is exactly the sort of thing City Opera should be doing. Opens Oct. 27. David H. Koch Theater.
WHITE LIGHT The big halls are besotted with the notion of thematic festivals, none more so than Lincoln Center, where the latest, White Light, meditates on spirituality. The festival opens with ''The Soul's Messenger,'' a free concert by Meredith Monk and her vocal ensemble (Oct. 28) and offers plenty of exotica, including choreographed Buddhist music by Shaolin monks from China (Nov. 2-4), a Renaissance Croatian setting of the Apocryphal Book of Judith (Nov. 3-6) and ''The Manganiyar Seduction,'' a drama about an Indian Muslim sect that also worships Hindu deities (Nov. 17-18). For listeners more devoted to the Western sacred canon, highlights include Brahms's ''German Requiem,'' with the accomplished young British conductor Daniel Harding and the Dresden Staatskapelle (Oct. 31); Philippe Herreweghe leading his Collegium Vocale Gent Choir, the Accademia Chigiana Siena and the Solisti del Vento in Bruckner's E minor Mass and other works (Nov. 2); and a fascinating program by the violinist Gidon Kremer and the Kremerata Baltica that juxtaposes two modern scores, Lera Auerbach's ''Sogno di Stabat Mater'' and Giya Kancheli's ''Silent Prayer.'' with Beethoven's monumental Opus 111 Quartet (Nov. 11). Oct. 28-Nov. 18. Lincoln Center.
TOKYO STRING QUARTET This group has been presenting the complete Beethoven quartet cycle in an unusual way over the last two seasons: by sharing its programs with pianists who perform Beethoven's contemporaneous piano sonatas. Now it has reached the late quartets, a part of the cycle that it is also releasing on CD in October (Harmonia Mundi). The pianists offering late sonatas are Juho Pohjonen, Aleksandar Madzar, Robert Levin and Kirill Gerstein. Oct. 30, Jan. 22, March 5, May 7. 92nd Street Y.
NOVEMBER
CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER Many of the society's programs this season leave the Germanic core of the repertory behind and look at other accents. This one offers an invitingly varied selection of works by Andre Jolivet, Bohuslav Martinu, Maurice Ravel, Anton Arensky and Bright Sheng. Nov. 9. Alice Tully Hall.
FRETWORK Reinforcing the feeling among New York's early-music fans that Boston's period-instrument scene is livelier -- unjustified, New York players insist -- the Boston Early Music Festival, in its between-festivals guise as a concert-presenting organization, has established a beachhead in New York with its own series. Its first offering this season is Fretwork, the superb British viol consort, in works by Henry Purcell and William Lawes. Nov. 10. Morgan Library & Museum.
'ELIJAH' Kurt Masur's tenure with the New York Philharmonic was not so long ago that listeners will have forgotten what a superb Mendelssohn conductor Mr. Masur was. But a music director cannot live in a predecessor's shadow for long, and Alan Gilbert now turns his attention to Mendelssohn's splendid oratorio, ''Elijah,'' with the New York Choral Artists and a promising slate of soloists that includes Gerald Finley in the title role, Carolyn Sampson, Alice Coote and Allan Clayton. Nov. 10-11, 13. Avery Fisher Hall.
GARRICK OHLSSON This pianist's musical fascinations are many, and he has proved an insightful interpreter of Bach, Beethoven, Busoni, Scriabin and modernists like Charles Wuorinen and Justin Dello Joio. But his earliest successes were as a Chopin player: his victory at the 1970 Chopin International Piano Competition made his career, and he has returned to the composer's music regularly. Last season he began the Chopin Project, a selective overview of Chopin's piano works, touching on most of the composer's favored forms. He completes the series here with two recitals. (On March 6, Mr. Ohlsson will also play a mostly Chopin recital (with a bit of Granados for variety) as part of the inexpensive People's Symphony Concerts at Town Hall.) Nov. 10, Dec. 8. Alice Tully Hall.
ST. THOMAS CHOIR OF MEN AND BOYS With all due respect to Lincoln Center's White Light festival, you don't need an arts center for the great sacred works: New York's churches offer a virtually nonstop playlist. John Scott leads the splendid choir of St. Thomas Church Fifth Avenue, supported by the Orchestra of St. Luke's, in two exquisite Faure scores -- the Requiem, a rare example of the genre in its view of a purgatory-free afterlife, and the ''Cantique de Jean Racine'' -- as well as a late-Renaissance masterpiece, Victoria's Requiem. Nov. 12, St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street; (212) 664-9360, saintthomaschurch.org.
HILLIARD ENSEMBLE On the other hand, churches tend to be less experimental with sacred music than arts centers, unless a collaboration is involved. As part of White Light, Lincoln Center is bringing the wonderful and prolific Hilliard Ensemble to two churches (with acoustics that beat anything Lincoln Center can offer) for collaborations with musicians from outside the classical world. First the choir revives its longtime collaboration with the jazz saxophonist Jan Garbarek for one of his new works (and some Arvo Part). Then the Hilliard singers join the Latvian National Choir, members of the Icelandic avant-garde rock band Sigur Ros and the Wordless Music Orchestra, led by Jeffrey Milarsky, for music by some of the Sigur Ros players. Nov. 12, 15. Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue; Church of St. Paul the Apostle, 405 West 59th Street. lincolncenter.org.
ANNE-SOPHIE MUTTER Composers in residence are commonplace for orchestras, but soloists usually just do flybys: in for a concerto, then see you next season (or the one after). This year the New York Philharmonic has appointed the violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter artist in residence, and she will play chamber and orchestral works, standard repertory and premieres, several times during the season. Her first stint begins with a Beethoven chamber concert with the violist Yuri Bashmet and the cellist Lynn Harrell, as a prelude to a Philharmonic series in which she not only plays and conducts the First, Third and Fifth Mozart Violin Concertos but also performs the solo line in Wolfgang Rihm's new ''Lichtes Spiel'' (with Michael Francis conducting). Nov. 14; 18-20, 23. Avery Fisher Hall.
ALICE TULLY HALL ORGAN Swept into Lincoln Center's White Light festival, the belated return of the Kuhn organ to the refurbished hall is a notable event on its own. Paul Jacobs, an eloquent, versatile young organist (and the chairman of the Juilliard School's organ department), gives the instrument a thorough workout with Bach's ''Clavier-Ubung,'' Part 3. This extraordinary work presents an overview of European sacred music, from motets in the style of the Italian Renaissance to more contemporary chorales and chorale preludes in French and German styles, with complex fugues and Lutheran Mass movements along the way. Mr. Jacobs will have an occasional break: Steven Fox will lead the Clarion Choir in a cappella performances of the chorales. Nov. 16. Alice Tully Hall.
'L'INCORONAZIONE DI POPPEA' When Harry Bicket is in town in October to lead the English Concert at Weill Recital Hall, he will undoubtedly pop into the Juilliard School to oversee rehearsals of this Monteverdi opera, with all its antique Roman intrigue, in a production by Edward Berkeley, which Mr. Bicket conducts. The production represents the first collaboration between the Juilliard Opera and the school's historical performance program, and if their individual past efforts are any indication, both the singing and the period-instrument playing should yield ample rewards. Nov. 17, 19, 21. Peter Jay Sharp Theater, Juilliard School, 60 Lincoln Center Plaza; (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu.
CONTACT! Because the Mozart and Rihm works being performed by Anne-Sophie Mutter are scored for chamber orchestra, Alan Gilbert is free to take some of his players to other halls for the season's first Contact! program. Now in its second season, the series is devoted to contemporary works, performed in spaces more intimate (that is, likely to have fewer unsold seats) than Avery Fisher Hall. The program includes a new work by Magnus Lindberg -- you might as well keep the composer in residence busy while the artist in residence is on the larger stage -- and Gerard Grisey's ''Quatre Chants Pour Franchir le Seuil'' (''Four Songs for Crossing the Threshold''). Nov. 19, 20. Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, Manhattan; Metropolitan Museum of Art.
'FIRE AND FOLLY' In the Music Before 1800 series, the British soprano Sophie Daneman portrays betrayed women from operas by Handel and Vivaldi in a program about the folly of love and its dire consequences. Apollo's Fire, a period-instrument band from Cleveland, adds commentary with thematically suitable instrumental works by Vivaldi, Tartini and Rameau. Nov. 21. Corpus Christi Church.
'DON CARLO' Nicholas Hytner, in his first production for the Met, stages Verdi's great drama of love, revenge and betrayal. Roberto Alagna sings the title role, and the cast includes Ferruccio Furlanetto, Simon Keenlyside, Marina Poplavskaya and Anna Smirnova. Yannick Nezet-Seguin, the sensational young Canadian who becomes music director of the Philadelphia Orchestra in 2012, conducts. Opens Nov. 22. Metropolitan Opera House.
'DIDO AND AENEAS' This work by Purcell has all you want in an opera: a tragic love affair, aided by well-meaning friends and sabotaged by dark supernatural forces; comic choruses and a drunken sailor's dance; counterfeit deities who further the witches' plan to bring Dido to grief, all set to an absolutely magnificent score that clocks in at under an hour. The Boston Early Music Festival presents the work in a staging by Gilbert Blin, who directed the festival's magnificent production of Monteverdi's ''Incoronazione di Poppea'' in 2009. Laura Powell and Douglas Williams sing the title roles, with musical direction by Paul O'Dette and Stephen Stubbs. Nov. 27-28. New England Conservatory, Boston; (617) 661-1812, bemf.org.
A MET CHRISTMAS The Christmas concerts at the Metropolitan Museum, set in the Medieval Sculpture Hall, with its suitably antique atmosphere and (if you overlook some period-mixing) its huge Christmas tree and Baroque creche, are as appealing to the eye as to the ear. Four ensembles perform this year: Chanticleer, the San Francisco men's choir, sings medieval and Renaissance carols as well as more contemporary holiday fare on Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. Anonymous 4, the superb female quartet, offers ''Noel: Four Centuries of Christmas'' on Dec. 14. The Inspirational Voices of the Abyssinian Baptist Church add spirituals and gospel versions of favorite carols to the mix on Dec. 16. And for listeners who want to focus on how Christmas sounded at a particular historical time and place, Lionheart revives its program ''Tydings Trew: Feasts of Christmas in Medieval England'' on Dec. 21. Metropolitan Museum.
NEW YORK FESTIVAL OF SONG Two modern comic operas -- John Musto's ''Bastianello,'' a work about the trials of marriage, and William Bolcom's ''Lucrezia,'' a zarzuela parody set in Argentina -- appear on disc. Both have librettos by Mark Campbell. November. Bridge Records.
DECEMBER
RISOR CHAMBER MUSIC FESTIVAL This Norwegian event, said to be based in an idyllic place for making music, attracts starry players and young musicians from around the world. To get the word out, its artistic directors, the pianist Leif Ove Andsnes and the violist Lars Anders Tomter, are bringing musicians from the festival to New York to convey something of the its sensibility. The other performers include Marc-Andre Hamelin, the pianist; Measha Brueggergosman, the soprano; Martin Frost, the clarinetist; Henning Kraggerud, the violinist; and the Risor Festival Strings. Highlights of the four concerts include Honegger's Symphony No. 2, a two-piano version of Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring,'' Mozart's Clarinet Quintet, Mahler's ''Songs of a Wayfarer,'' Copland's Clarinet Concerto and Brahms's Piano Quartet No. 1. (On April 7, Mr. Andsnes will play a recital in Carnegie Hall.) Dec. 1-4. Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall.
COLIN DAVIS The respected maestro contributes to the Mahler centenary commemorations, presenting ''Des Knaben Wunderhorn,'' with Dorothea Roschmann and Ian Bostridge as soloists, during the first of his two weeks with the New York Philharmonic. He offers other specialties in his second week: Elgar's Introduction and Allegro and his Violin Concerto (with Nikolaj Znaider) surround Mozart's ''Linz'' Symphony. Dec. 2, 4, 7; 9-11. Avery Fisher Hall.
ORPHEUS This conductorless chamber orchestra presents an alluring program that includes Barber's lively ''Capricorn Concerto,'' Beethoven's Seventh Symphony and Britten's ''Illuminations,'' sung by the sweet-toned English soprano Kate Royal. (On May 20, Ms. Royal offers more Britten, along with Schubert, Liszt, Wolf, Copland, Bolcom and others, in a program at Weill Recital Hall.) Dec. 4. Carnegie Hall.
PIERRE BOULEZ The Miller Theater's Composer Portraits series is valuable both for its illuminating focus on single composers and for its breadth: the young and little-known are (almost) as likely to be featured as their famous elders. This season's first two portraits are evenings with the young German composer Matthias Pintscher (Oct. 21) and with Fred Lerdahl (Nov. 19). Farther down the road are Julia Wolfe (Feb. 3), Mario Davidovsky (March 4), the Israeli experimentalist Chaya Czernowin (April 15) and Joan Tower (May 5). But the 85th-birthday tribute to Mr. Boulez here is clearly the center of gravity. James Baker leads the Talea Ensemble in the early ''12 Notations'' (1945) and ''Improvisations I and II'' (1957), and traces Mr. Boulez's development through the more recent ''Derive'' (1984) and ''Derive 2'' (1988-2006, an American premiere). Dec. 6. Miller Theater, Broadway at 116th Street; (212) 854-7799, millertheatre.com.
STEVE REICH Mr. Reich does not turn 75 until Oct. 3, 2011. But you know the deal with composers' birthday celebrations: anytime in a season overlapping the anniversary year counts. And why not? Axiom, a Juilliard School new-music ensemble led by Jeffrey Milarsky, gets its greetings in early with performances of the Triple Quartet and the game-changing Music for 18 Musicians, a score that represented a tremendous shift toward deliberate rather than serendipitous complexity in Mr. Reich's music. Dec. 9. Alice Tully Hall.
ST. THOMAS 'MESSIAH' Though Handel wrote ''Messiah'' as an Easter work, New York is overrun with performances of it in the weeks before Christmas, in every size and shape, from trim period-instrument accounts to mammoth Victorian choral jamborees. The most consistently pleasing of them has been the annual production at St. Thomas Church Fifth Avenue, sung by the church's red-robed, pure-voiced choir of men and boys, with period instrument support from Concert Royal. The soloists this year are Elizabeth Weisberg, soprano; Daniel Bubeck, countertenor; Rufus Muller, tenor and Matt Boehler, bass. John Scott conducts. Dec. 7, 9. St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street; (212) 664-9360, saintthomaschurch.org.
ENSEMBLE ORGANUM If you have taken a music history course, you have heard about, and probably heard a recording of, Machaut's Notre Dame Mass, the earliest known polyphonic Mass in which all the Ordinary movements were written by a single composer. But live performances of this seminal score are few and far between. Marcel Peres and his ensemble perform the work as part of the free Movado Hour, and if their earthy, idiosyncratic 1995 Harmonia Mundi recording is any indication, this is a must-hear concert. Dec. 8. Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (646) 731-3200, bacnyc.org.
PHILHARMONIC 'MESSIAH' The New York Philharmonic's approach to Handel's great oratorio has lately combined modern-instrument heft and aspects of period style, fostered by guest conductors who specialize in Baroque interpretation. This year's performances are led by the Canadian conductor Bernard Labadie, who is used to the hybrid approach: his own Baroque orchestra, Les Violons du Roy, plays modern instruments. Karina Gauvin, Marie-Nicole Lemieux, Tilman Lichdi and Andrew Foster-Williams are the soloists; the New York Choral Artists sing the choruses. Dec. 14-18. Avery Fisher Hall.
JAPANNYC Carnegie Hall is fascinated with other places these days. Last year it devoted a few weeks of programming to Chinese culture, in Ancient Paths, Modern Voices. Before that it focused on Berlin, presenting both popular and formal artistry in Berlin in Lights. JapanNYC, though less inventively named, is similarly expansive, with events at Carnegie and elsewhere (including the Japan Society, the Asia Society and several museums) through the winter and spring. Carnegie's inaugural presentation is three concerts by the Saito Kinen Festival Orchestra, led by Seiji Ozawa (also the Carnegie festival's artistic director). Except for a couple of Japanese works (Atsuhiko Gondai's ''Decathexis'' and Toru Takemitsu's classic ''November Steps''), the Saito Kinen concerts are devoted mainly to Western music: most notably, Beethoven's Third Piano Concerto, with Mitsuko Uchida as soloist (Dec. 14), and Britten's ''War Requiem,'' with Christine Goerke, Anthony Dean Griffey and Matthias Goerne as vocal soloists (Dec. 18). Dec. 14-15, 18. Carnegie Hall.
'UNSILENT NIGHT' Uptown, Handel's ''Messiah'' and perhaps Britten's ''Ceremony of Carols'' are the big Christmas draws. But new-music aficionados march to a different beat: Phil Kline's ''Unsilent Night,'' a Greenwich Village procession in which participants carry boom-boxes (and these days, mp3 players, though Mr. Klein prefers the original format) playing cassettes, CDs and mp3s provided by Mr. Kline. (The mp3s can be downloaded at unsilentnight.com/download.) Dec. 18. Washington Square Park. unsilentnight.com.
LANG LANG Alan Gilbert teams up with the ebullient young pianist for the centerpiece of the New York Philharmonic's New Year's Eve concert, Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto No. 1. Look for the splashiest of gestures, musically and physically, from Mr. Lang: the concert will be broadcast by ''Live From Lincoln Center,'' and no opportunity to catch casual listeners' attention will be wasted. Mr. Gilbert fills out the Tchaikovsky program with the Polonaise from ''Eugene Onegin'' and Act II of ''The Nutcracker.'' Dec. 31. Avery Fisher Hall.
SHARON ISBIN Guitar recitals have become the favored form of New Year's Eve celebration at the 92nd Street Y in recent seasons, and if you prefer the intimate to the overtly festive, this is the place to be. The Y's soloist this year, Sharon Isbin, is a powerful player, and her program, which includes works by Albeniz, Tarrega, Dowland and others has its share of celebratory flash. (O.K., not the Dowland, but the Spanish works tend to be spirited.) And the Y provides champagne at intermission. Dec. 31. 92nd Street Y.
JANUARY
MONTEVERDI 1610 VESPERS No one likes to see a useful anniversary year fade away, and in the early-music world, 2010 -- the 400th anniversary of the publication of Monteverdi's glorious ''Vespro Della Beate Vergine'' -- was not only a great opportunity for ensembles to perform it but a boon to fans of this great score. Every reading brought something different to it. Artek, with help from Gallery Voices; Parthenia, the viol consort; and Piffaro, the wind band, is giving the Vespers a New Year's Day curtain call and inviting listeners to join in on the Psalms and the Ave Maris Stella. Jan. 1. Immanuel Church, 122 East 88th Street, Manhattan; (212) 967-9157, artekearlymusic.org.
'FOCUS!' FESTIVAL The Juilliard School's annual contemporary-music festival, directed by Joel Sachs, typically takes a probing look at developments in a particular country or region, or the influence of a specific composer or style. This year the subject is postwar Poland, where a long list of resourceful, durable composers includes Grazyna Bacewicz, Henryk Gorecki, Wojciech Kilar and Zygmunt Krauze -- all featured in the opening concert by Mr. Sachs and the New Juilliard Ensemble -- to say nothing of Krzysztof Penderecki and Witold Lutoslawski, the two Polish composers who have made the most indelible mark on the international repertory. The festival's finale, a Juilliard Orchestra concert led by Jeffrey Milarsky, is devoted fully to Lutoslawski, and includes his Overture for Strings, Partita for Violin, Cello Concerto and Symphony No. 4. Jan. 20-28. Alice Tully Hall; Paul Hall, Juilliard School, (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu.
SO PERCUSSION So Percussion writes its own music and will perform some of its colorful, often wry works in this program. A new collaboration with Dan Deacon, an electronic music composer, is likely to make the most of the tactile qualities of both electronic sound and percussion. Jan. 20. Merkin Concert Hall.
EMANUEL AX Among other fascinations this season -- notably, works by Debussy and Messiaen, which he will play to celebrate his 100th appearance with the New York Philharmonic (April 28-30) -- Mr. Ax is lavishing attention on Schubert. In the first of three concerts, he and several colleagues play music by other composers who have written works that use Schubert as a starting point, too, including John Harbison, Steven Stucky and Edgar Meyer. Mr. Ax will play only Schubert in the second program and will share a recital with the baritone Simon Keenlyside in the third. Jan. 21, Feb. 26, March 13. Alice Tully Hall.
SEQUENTIA Benjamin Bagby's current project with his band of like-minded medievalists, ''Voices From the Island Sanctuary,'' offers a 12th-century view of the Cathedral of Notre Dame, at the time the center of a miniature city-state on the Ile de la Cite, with a vast economy and a population that included students, aristocrats and tradesmen as well as churchmen. Mr. Bagby's musical portrait covers both the sacred and the profane, and is bound to be delivered with the vividness that has always characterized Sequentia's work. Jan. 22. Church of St. Mary the Virgin, 145 West 46th Street, Manhattan; (212) 854-7799, millertheater.com.
NEW WORLD SYMPHONY Michael Tilson Thomas has created something of a miracle in Miami Beach with his New World Symphony, a professional-level youth orchestra and orchestral training program that he established in 1987. The program has a new campus: a 100,641-square-foot building designed by Frank Gehry, complete with a high-tech concert hall; a huge exterior ''projection wall,'' to be used for video presentations; a six-story atrium; and plenty of studios and rehearsal space. To celebrate the new hall's opening, Mr. Thomas is conducting a program that includes the premiere of a new work by Thomas Ades -- to be accompanied by a video by Tal Rosner, using the hall's nearly 360-degree projection surface -- and Copland's Third Symphony. Jan. 26, 28. New World Symphony New Campus, 500 17th Street, Miami Beach; (800) 597-3331, nws.edu.
FREDERIC CHIU The virtuoso pianist takes the title of his program, ''Monument to Beethoven,'' from one of its works, Schumann's Fantasy in C (Op. 17), which was composed to raise money for the construction of a Beethoven monument. In a way, the program is also a tribute to Liszt, to whom Schumann dedicated the fantasy, and who is also represented by his piano transcription of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. Jan. 28. Metropolitan Museum.
'BERENICE' To the extent that the late-Romantic French composer Alberic Magnard is known today at all, it is through his four rich-hued symphonies and his opera ''Guercoeur'' (1900). Leon Botstein and the American Symphony Orchestra revive Magnard's final opera, ''Berenice'' (1909), a work about the doomed romance between a Judean queen and Titus, who would eventually become the Roman emperor. (Mozart touches on their relationship, too, in ''La Clemenza di Tito.'') Jan. 30. Carnegie Hall.
JUILLIARD BAROQUE Monica Huggett and the faculty of the Juilliard School's historical performance program worked wonders quickly last year, the program's first. When a mixed faculty and student group played Bach's ''Brandenburg'' Concertos at Music Before 1800, the results were stunning. This year they return to Music Before 1800, hoping to work the same magic on music of Haydn, Mozart and the Chevalier de Saint-Georges. Jan 30. Corpus Christi Church.
SALAMONE ROSSI The Clarion Music Society, founded in 1957 by Newell Jenkins, and now led by Steven Fox, devotes a program to Salamone Rossi, a Jewish contemporary of Monteverdi who flourished at the court of Mantua at the turn of the 17th century. The program includes examples of both his sacred settings -- in Hebrew, and beautifully couched in the polyphonic style of his time -- and his secular madrigals. Jan. 30. Temple Emanu-El, 65th Street at Fifth Avenue; (212) 866-0468, salonsanctuary.org.
JENNIFER KOH In a challenging program of unaccompanied works, this stylistically omnivorous young violinist plays contemporary works by Elliott Carter, Kaija Saariaho and Esa-Pekka Salonen as well as two pillars of the standard canon, Bach's Partita No. 3 (BWV 1006) and Ysae's ''Obsession'' Sonata. Mr. Salonen's ''Lachen Verlernt,'' which is included on Ms. Koh's recent CD ''Rhapsodic Musings'' (Cedille Records), will be performed with the involving, abstract video created for it by Tal Rosner. Jan. 30. 92nd Street Y.
JOHN ADAMS The latest installment of Nonesuch's comprehensive John Adams series includes his String Quartet, played by the energetic St. Lawrence String Quartet, and ''Son of Chamber Symphony,'' performed by the International Contemporary Ensemble. Nonesuch Records.
GEORGE CRUMB Volume 15 of Bridge's valuable overview of George Crumb's music includes the ''American Songbook V'' as well as ''The Ghosts of the Alhambra,'' ''Orchestra 2001'' and ''Crazy Jane.'' Bridge Records.
FEBRUARY
'NIXON IN CHINA' This 1987 opera was a huge leap for John Adams, whose orchestral music had already shown his interest in melding Minimalist rhythmic drive with Romantic grandeur and scope. And at the time it had comic appeal: Nixon and Henry Kissinger are portrayed as self-regarding, superficial and buffoonish, while Mao Zedong is shown as an Eastern philosopher-king who tapped the deep wisdom of his ancient culture: a troubling view if you consider Mao a brutal thug, responsible for the deaths of millions. James Maddalena, who created the title role in the original Peter Sellars production, takes it up again in this new Sellars production, with Mr. Adams conducting the work's belated Met premiere. Opens Feb. 2. Metropolitan Opera House.
PEOPLE'S COMMISSIONS Bang on a Can encourages listeners to contribute whatever they can -- a buck here, a fiver there -- to its People's Commissioning Fund and then orders several works to be unveiled at an annual concert by its resident ensemble, the Bang on a Can All Stars. This year's composers are Bryce Dessner, Karsh Kale and Nick Brooke. Feb. 10. Merkin Concert Hall.
MITSUKO UCHIDA Perhaps the most graceful pianist on the stage, and one of the most probing, Mitsuko Uchida gives recitals that are invariably satisfying. Here she performs Beethoven's Sonata No. 27 (Op. 90) and slightly belated tributes to 2010's bicentenary celebrants, Schumann (the ''Davidsbundlertanze'') and Chopin (the C sharp minor Prelude and the B minor Sonata). Feb. 11. Carnegie Hall.
JEREMY DENK Here is one of the more thoughtful pianists (and, as you can see from his blog, ''Think Denk,'' at jeremydenk.net, one of the more amusing ones) to have joined the circuit in recent years. He offers a typically challenging program: Gyorgy Ligeti's Etudes, Books 1 and 2, on the first half and Bach's ''Goldberg Variations'' (presumably without all the repeats) on the second. Feb. 16. Zankel Hall.
PAUL LEWIS This English pianist made his name with an extraordinary recorded traversal of the Beethoven sonatas (on Harmonia Mundi), and his recitals have shown him to be a clear-eyed interpreter of other music, too. Here the subject is Schubert. In the first of two recitals, he plays the Sonatas in C (D. 840) and D (D. 850) and the Drei Klavierstucke (D. 946). The follow-up includes the Sonata in G (D. 894), the Opus 90 Impromptus and smaller works. Feb. 18, April 29. Metropolitan Museum.
YOUNG CONCERT ARTISTS MARATHON For 50 years, Young Concert Artists has held auditions at which it selects promising musicians for its roster. The winners are presented in debuts and provided professional management services until a commercial management company picks them up, and the organization's track record has made its imprimatur valuable. Its winners include the pianists Murray Perahia, Ursula Oppens, Emanuel Ax, Jean-Yves Thibaudet, Olli Mustonen and Jeremy Denk; the singers Dawn Upshaw and Sasha Cooke; the violinists Pinchas Zukerman, Paul Zukofsky and Timothy Fain; the flutists Paula Robison and Marya Martin; and Gerard Schwarz in his virtuoso trumpeter days. More than 100 alumni will pay tribute to the organization in a 12-hour marathon concert that begins with an hour of Bach and includes plenty of standard repertory and a hefty portion of new music too. Feb. 19. Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, Manhattan; (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org.
ROOMFUL OF TEETH Brad Wells founded the eight-voice choir Roomful of Teeth in 2008 with an interesting notion: that any singer can learn the niceties of any style of vocal production -- not just pop and operatic singing but Sardinian, Tuvan, Bantu and other ethnic styles as well -- and that a choir versed in all these styles can be a limitless resource for composers. If nothing else, it is an entertaining theory to test, and in this latest installment of Mr. Wells's project, the group sings works composed for it by William Brittelle, Caleb Burhans and Merrill Garbus. Feb. 19. Merkin Concert Hall.
DIANA DAMRAU There is much to be said for a more conventionally classical approach to singing, of course, and perhaps the ideal way to follow an evening with Roomful of Teeth is to hear this remarkably expressive soprano sing Liszt, Strauss and Rachmaninoff songs. (In November, Virgin Classics will release a recording of Ms. Damrau singing Strauss orchestral songs with Christian Thielemann conducting the Munich Philharmonic.) Feb. 20. Alice Tully Hall.
JANINE JANSEN Benjamin Britten's rarely heard Violin Concerto is a far cry from Vivaldi's ''Four Seasons,'' with which Ms. Jansen first caught the music world's attention, but she has steadfastly expanded her horizons, or our sense of them. She performs the Britten with the New York Philharmonic, with Paavo Jarvi leading a program that also includes Erkki-Sven Tuur's ''Aditus'' and Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. Feb. 24-26, March 1. Avery Fisher Hall.
YALE IN NEW YORK The deputations sent by Yale University's music school in recent seasons have provided many magnificent evenings of inventive programming. Here the Yale Philharmonic Chamber Orchestra, led by Shinik Hahm, offers a handful of 20th-century works in the Baroque concerto grosso form: Bloch's Concerto Grosso (1925), Strauss's ''Duett-Concertino'' (1947) and Ginastera's ''Variaciones Concertantes'' (1953). Feb. 28. Zankel Hall.
MINNESOTA ORCHESTRA The Finnish conductor Osmo Vanska has transformed this orchestra, once a solid but rarely sparkling group, into a world-class ensemble. But on this visit, he is leaving little to chance, offering two of his specialties, Sibelius (the Sixth and Seventh Symphonies) and Beethoven (the Violin Concerto, with the agile, warm-toned Lisa Batiashvili). Feb. 28. Carnegie Hall.
MARCH
PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA Charles Dutoit's performances are electrifying when he is at his best, and when he is not, he has at least stacked the deck by programming works likely to dazzle. Here his dazzlers are Berlioz's ''Beatrice et Benedict'' Overture and Tchaikovsky's Fifth Symphony. They frame a new Violin Concerto by the Scottish composer James Macmillan, who has mastered texture and color, and whose language is rigorous but appealing. Vadim Repin is the soloist. (If you like Mr. MacMillan's music, you can hear more of it on March 2, when the Brentano String Quartet, Sasha Cooke and others perform an evening of his chamber works at Zankel Hall.). March 1, Carnegie Hall.
'BAROQUE REWORKED' Players of the Orchestra of St. Luke's examine -- and extend -- the common Baroque practice of composers rewriting their own works and those of others. Nearly everything in this program is also something else: a Scarlatti Concerto Grosso is performed in Avison's contemporaneous arrangement. Bach's E flat Flute Sonata (BWV 1031) is actually an arrangement of a trio by Quantz, and Bach's Concerto for Oboe and Violin (BWV 1060R) is a reconstruction of a lost work on which Bach based a better-known concerto for two harpsichords. Gabrieli's Canzona seems to have a pure pedigree, so St. Luke's commissioned Phil Kline to write a new work based on it. March 2, 4. Morgan Library & Museum. OTHER MINDS Eight composers of at least as many stylistic stripes will be resident at the 16th annual Other Minds Festival, and the bill, crammed into a mere three days, looks promising. The composers are Louis Andriessen and Han Bennink, from the Netherlands; I Wayan Balawan, from Indonesia; Agata Zubel, from Poland; and Kyle Gann, Janice Giteck, David A. Jaffe and Jason Moran from the United States. The performers include the avant-garde rock guitarist Fred Frith, the Seattle Chamber Players and the soprano Cristina Zavalloni. March 3-5. Jewish Community Center of San Francisco; (415) 934-8134, otherminds.org.
ST. LOUIS SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA Keeping up with David Robertson's musical adventures and with his renovation of this orchestra is always a rewarding pursuit, and the violinist Leila Josefowicz has become a player whose broad tastes make her worth watching as well. She joins Mr. Robertson for Thomas Ades's Violin Concerto (''Concentric Paths'') in a program that also includes Vaughan Williams's plush ''Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis'' and Tchaikovsky's Sixth Symphony. March 5. Carnegie Hall.
HUNGARIAN ECHOES Esa-Pekka Salonen, always an inventive programmer, is leading the New York Philharmonic in a three-week series that is ingenious for its simplicity. He is looking at Hungarian musical history through the works of three very different composers: Haydn, Bartok and Ligeti, and he has put works by all three on each program. Haydn is represented by the Symphonies Nos. 6, 7 and 8 (''Le Matin,'' ''Le Midi'' and ''Le Soir''), and in the first week, Mr. Salonen presents the Ligeti Piano Concerto, with Pierre-Laurent Aimard, and Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra (March 10-12, 15). In the second week, the Ligeti is the ''Concert Romanesc,'' and Michelle DeYoung and Evgeny Nikitin are the soloists in a multimedia performance of Bartok's horrifying ''Bluebeard's Castle'' (March 18-19, 22). The final program includes two Bartok works -- the Piano Concerto No. 1, with Olli Mustonen, and a suite from ''The Miraculous Mandarin'' -- and Ligeti's ''Clocks and Clouds'' (March 24-26). Avery Fisher Hall.
'1969' The enterprising new-music band Alarm Will Sound has been building this program for several years. Part concert, part stage show, written by Andrew Kupfer and directed by Nigel Maister, ''1969'' imagines a fictional meeting between the former Beatle (and sometime avant-gardist) John Lennon and the German composer Karlheinz Stockhausen, with actors portraying them. The works to be performed include an orchestral arrangement of the Beatles' ''Revolution 9,'' parts of Bernstein's ''Mass,'' Berio's ''O King'' and ''Sinfonia,'' and John Orfe's Chamber Symphony. March 10. Zankel Hall.
LES ARTS FLORISSANTS William Christie and his Parisian ensemble are at their best in fully staged opera productions. But failing that, their concert performances still speak volumes about how French Baroque works are to be sung and played. On this visit, Mr. Christie conducts suites from Rameau's ''Anacreon'' and ''Pygmalion,'' with the soprano Emmanuelle de Negri, the tenor Ed Lyon and the bass Alain Buet. March 11-12. Alice Tully Hall.
BOSTON SYMPHONY AT CARNEGIE As part of his Perspectives series, the German violinist Christian Tetzlaff all but hijacks the first of three Boston Symphony Concerts at the hall. With James Levine conducting, Mr. Tetzlaff performs Mozart's Rondo (K. 373), Bartok's Violin Concerto No. 2 and a new work being composed for the occasion by Harrison Birtwistle. Mr. Levine, with the pianist Maurizio Pollini as his soloist, devotes the second night of the orchestra's miniresidency to works of Schoenberg (Variations for Orchestra and Piano Concerto) and Mozart (Piano Concerto No. 23 and ''Jupiter'' Symphony). The final evening is devoted to Mahler's Ninth Symphony. March 15-17. Carnegie Hall.
ANA VIDOVIC A recital by Ana Vidovic, a 30-year-old Croatian guitarist who won a string of international competitions in her early 20s, is among the highlights of the 92nd Street Y's Art of the Guitar series. Her playing has everything -- clarity, warmth, precision and an intuitive sense of line -- and her repertory is widely varied. Her program includes works by Piazzolla, Takemitsu, Walton, Stjepan Sulek, Sergio Assad and Rex Willis. March 19. 92nd Street Y.
BACH'S B MINOR MASS Masaaki Suzuki and his Bach Collegium Japan are devoted to the notion that Bach's choral works should be performed by trim ensembles. When the group introduced itself to New York in 2003, it was with a ''St. Matthew Passion'' sung by a mere 24 singers: only three voices to a part. This time, as part of the JapanNYC festival, the period-instrument ensemble and choir offer the Mass in B minor, which the musicologist Joshua Rifkin has argued should be performed with only one singer to a part. Can Mr. Suzuki go that far in a hall as large as Carnegie? Stay tuned. (On April 29, Mr. Suzuki will also play a harpsichord recital, with music of Couperin, Byrd, Froberger, Buxtehude and Bach, at Weill Recital Hall.) March 22. Carnegie Hall.
'LE COMTE ORY' The Metropolitan Opera presents a new production of this amusing Rossini opera, with Bartlett Sher directing, Maurizio Benini conducting and a starry cast that includes Juan Diego Florez in the title role, Diana Damrau and Joyce DiDonato. Opens March 24. Metropolitan Opera House.
'MONODRAMAS' This collection of modern works, each for a single virtuoso soprano, is a centerpiece of the New York City Opera's season. John Zorn's wordless ''Machine de l'Etre,'' inspired by the drawings of Antonin Artaud, has its stage premiere. Its companion pieces are Schoenberg's dark ''Erwartung'' and a rarity, Morton Feldman's 1976 collaboration with Samuel Beckett, ''Neither.'' The soprano for the Zorn work has not yet been announced, but Kara Shay Thomson is the soloist in ''Erwartung,'' and Cyndia Sieden sings ''Neither.'' Opens March 25. David H. Koch Theater.
MAURIZIO POLLINI This veteran pianist's detractors find him coldly analytical, and his admirers find him a giant of interpretive probity. If you haven't made up your mind, consider these two recitals devoted to monumentally challenging works, only eight days apart: First he plays Bach's ''Well-Tempered Clavier,'' Book 1; then he offers Beethoven's last three sonatas (Op. 109, 110 and 111). After all that, you're bound either to love him or to hate him. March 27, April 4. Carnegie Hall.
ANNE-SOPHIE MUTTER RETURNS In the spring installment of her New York Philharmonic residency, Ms. Mutter keeps the focus more firmly (though not completely) on new music. As part of a Russian program led by Michael Tilson Thomas, she plays the New York premiere of Sofia Gubaidulina's ''In Tempus Praesens'' (March 31, April 1-2). A chamber concert with Philharmonic players includes new works for violin and bass by Wolfgang Rihm and Krzysztof Penderecki (April 3). And with Alan Gilbert on the podium she plays Beethoven's Romance No. 2 and the premiere of Sebastian Currier's new concerto, ''Time Machines'' (June 2-4). Avery Fisher Hall.
APRIL
'ACIS AND GALATEA' The Boston Early Music Festival presents a production of Handel's charmingly courtly pastoral opera in its New York series. Like the ''Dido and Aeneas'' staged in Boston in November (why isn't that coming here?), this production is directed by Gilbert Blin and led from a pair of theorbos by Paul O'Dette and Stephen Stubbs. Aaron Sheehan is Acis; Teresa Wakim is Galatea. April 3. Morgan Library and Museum.
'THE NEW JAPAN' The Juilliard School's contribution to Carnegie Hall's JapanNYC festival is this program by the New Juilliard Ensemble, led by Joel Sachs and devoted to the postwar avant-garde. The composers -- Takemitsu, Toshi Ichiyanagi, Toshio Hosokawa, Somei Satoh, Karen Tanaka, Toshio Hosakawa and Akira Nishimura -- run the gamut from harsh atonality to gently introspective post-Minimalism. April 8. Alice Tully Hall.
CHICAGO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA It seemed clear during Riccardo Muti's years with the Philadelphia Orchestra that American music was not his long suit; a New York performance of Copland's Third Symphony, in particular, was puzzlingly dull. He seems determined to repair that shortcoming during his Chicago Symphony tenure. He has appointed two young resident composers from the hipper end of the spectrum, Anna Clyne and Mason Bates, and on the last of three nights in New York with his new orchestra, he leads Ms. Clyne's ''rewind'' as well as Varese's ''Arcana'' and Shostakovich's Fifth Symphony. The first two evenings are devoted to more typical Muti fare: a concert version of Verdi's ''Otello'' (with Aleksandrs Antonenko in the title role and Krassimira Stoyanova as Desdemona) and the Berlioz program he leads in Chicago in September. April 15-17. Carnegie Hall.
CHRISTOPHER ROUSE Now that everyone is doing it, it should be noted that Christopher Rouse was among the first composers to let his rock passions seep into his symphonic and chamber works. In the 1980s, he wove lines from Led Zeppelin and Canned Heat songs into an orchestral piece, ''Bump,'' and he was more overt in the percussion blowout ''Bonham,'' a tribute to Led Zeppelin's drummer. Mr. Rouse will be on hand to talk about his work, and perhaps his influences, in a Making Music program devoted to his recent chamber works. April 15. Zankel Hall.
'SEANCE ON A WET AFTERNOON' The New York City Opera presents the New York premiere of this drama by Stephen Schwartz, a composer best known for his theater works: among them, ''Godspell,'' ''Pippin'' and ''Wicked.'' The story, based on a Mark McShane novel, is that of Myra Foster, a medium who plans to kidnap a neighbor's daughter and pretend to find her by communicating with her own dead son, until her tenuous grip on reality complicates the plot. Lauren Flanigan, who typically does wonders when portraying madwomen, plays Myra. Opens April 19. David H. Koch Theater.
'STRIKING SOUNDS' The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center offers two programs of works in which percussion is crucial. In the first, the baritone Thomas Hampson sings excerpts from George Crumb's ''American Songbooks'' for voice, piano and percussion, and the cellist Andres Diaz and a percussion quartet play Tan Dun's ''Snow in June.'' The second program includes Xenakis's ''Rebonds,'' Bartok's Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion and Mr. Crumb's ''Music for a Summer Evening (Makrokosmos III)'' for two amplified pianos and percussion. April 29, May 1. Alice Tully Hall.
STEVE REICH AT 75 This birthday celebration -- still five months early, but getting there -- brings together some of Mr. Reich's most devoted interpreters: among them, the Kronos Quartet, the Bang on a Can All Stars, Eighth Blackbird, So Percussion and a handful of individual players, including Glenn Kotche (the drummer from the rock band Wilco), Bryce Dessner (the guitarist from the National and Clogs). This is no retrospective: the works include the New York premieres of the Mallet Quartet, ''2X5'' and ''WTC 9/11'' as well as a reprise of the Pulitzer Prize-winning Double Sextet. April 30. Carnegie Hall.
MAY
LES DELICES This period-instrument ensemble from Cleveland, led by the Baroque oboist Debra Nagy, makes its New York debut with music from the world of Louis XIV: works by Lully, Marais, Philidor, d'Anglebert, Bacilly and Hotteterre. May 1. Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan; (212) 547-0715, frick.org.
CHARLES DUTOIT Charles Dutoit leads the Philadelphia Orchestra in an appealingly theatrical Stravinsky double bill: first the ballet ''Apollo,'' then -- with the men of the Philadelphia Singers Chorale and a slate of vocal soloists, including Paul Groves and Petra Lang -- the opera ''Oedipus Rex.'' May 3. Carnegie Hall.
CHARLES DUTOIT IN BOSTON Then, taking a page from James Levine's playbook, Mr. Dutoit lands in Boston the next day to lead an open rehearsal of Berlioz's ''Romeo et Juliette'' with the Boston Symphony, the Tanglewood Festival Chorus and soloists (Bernarda Fink, Jean-Paul Fouchecourt and Laurent Naouri). The Boston Symphony has long been an ideal Berlioz orchestra, and Mr. Dutoit has always counted Berlioz among his specialties: it should be a good fit. Rehearsal, May 4; performances, May 5-7. Symphony Hall, Boston; (617) 266-1492, bso.org.
ORGAN INAUGURATION The Church of the Ascension is installing a new 95-stop, 111-rank organ, built for it in St. Didier, France, by Pascal Quorin. The instrument, which has more than 6,000 pipes, is described by Dennis Keene, the church's artistic director, as having a sound that is ''unabashedly French, full of color and character.'' It will be inaugurated in a recital by the Parisian organist Jon Gillock, who will perform works by Dupre, Franck, Vierne, Tournemire, Durufle, Messiaen and others. May 5. Church of the Ascension, 12 West 11th Street; (212) 358-1469, voicesofascension.org.
CARNEGIE HALL Carnegie celebrates its 120th anniversary by inviting back its onetime principal tenant, the New York Philharmonic, to play a motley but entertaining program. Alan Gilbert begins with Dvorak's ''Carnival'' and ends with Gershwin's ''American in Paris.'' In between, the pianist Emanuel Ax, the violinist Gil Shaham and the cellist Yo-Yo Ma join the orchestra for Beethoven's Triple Concerto, and Audra McDonald performs songs by Duke Ellington. May 5. Carnegie Hall.
SPRING FOR MUSIC This new organization has been gearing up since 2008 to present what it hopes will be an annual spring festival of North American orchestras at Carnegie Hall. The idea is that the participating ensembles will bring adventurous repertory, and that the concerts will be ''affordably priced'': all seats go for $25. Orpheus, the New York Chamber Orchestra, opens the series, and out-of-town orchestras follow almost daily: the Toledo Symphony, conducted by Stefan Sanderling; the Albany Symphony, with David Alan Miller; the Dallas Symphony, with Jaap van Zweden; the Oregon Symhony, with Carlos Kalmar; the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra, with the soprano Dawn Upshaw as soloist; and the Montreal Symphony, led by Kent Nagano. May 6-14. Carnegie Hall.
JUNE
BOSTON EARLY MUSIC FESTIVAL Not the New York outpost, not the Boston concert series, but the real thing at last. During this biennial celebration of pre-Romantic music, performers and aficionados converge on Boston for a schedule of concerts, lectures, master classes and symposiums that often runs from late morning until after midnight at churches, schools and concert halls all over town. The festival is also part trade show: instrument makers, publishers, record labels and schools display their wares in the festival's exhibition rooms. The full schedule has not yet been announced. But its centerpiece is ''Niobe, Regina di Tebe,'' Agostino Steffani's 1688 opera about a Theban queen whose pride enraged the gods. June 12-19. Various locations, Boston; (617) 661-1812, bemf.org.
GERARD SCHWARZ In the 26 years he directed the Seattle Symphony, Gerard Schwarz polished the already fine orchestra's reputation considerably, not least through copious recordings of mid-20th-century American symphonies. But a little-known corollary to the law of entropy holds that the longer a conductor and orchestra work together, the more likely it is that their relationship will disintegrate. And indeed, Mr. Schwarz and his players have waged highly charged battles in recent years. Now that he is leaving -- Ludovic Morlot takes over next September -- all is sweetness and light: the orchestra opened this valedictory season on Saturday with a gala in Mr. Schwarz's honor. But Mr. Schwarz is not leaving without comment. His final program begins with Schubert's ''Unfinished'' Symphony and ends with Mahler's ''Resurrection'' Symphony. Messages, anyone? June 16, 18. Benaroya Hall, Seattle; (866) 833-4747, seattlesymphony.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan Gilbert's second season as the Philharmonic's music director commences with a collaboration with Wynton Marsalis's Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra
below, the Voxare String Quartet. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEFAN COHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Left, Placido Domingo as Pablo Neruda in ''Il Postino'' at the Los Angeles Opera
below, from left, Marc Andre-Hamelin, appearing this month at Le Poisson Rouge, and Laurie Anderson in ''Delusion,'' coming to the Brooklyn Academy of Music. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ART STREIBER
HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LELAND BREWSTER) (AR66)
''The Manganiyar Seduction,'' a drama about an Indian Muslim sect, is part of Lincoln Center's White Light festival.
Rene Pape in Mussorgsky's ''Boris Godunov,'' at the Met. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK HEAVICAN/METROPOLITAN OPERA) (AR67)
Anne-Sophie Mutter will be performing as artist in residence at the New York Philharmonic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.)
Jan Garbarek (with saxophone) and the Hilliard Ensemble will perform together at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola. (AR68)
Ana Vidovic, part of a new guitar series at the 92nd Street Y. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR69)
Riccardo Muti is beginning his tenure as music director of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra this season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Steve Reich will have a 75thbirthday concert in April. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR89) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); THEATER (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



325 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: When There's Really No Place Like Home

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -- For a few hours at the mall here this month, Nick Griffith, his wife, Lacey Lennon, and their two young children got to feel like a regular family again.
Never mind that they were just killing time away from the homeless shelter where they are staying, or that they had to take two city buses to get to the shopping center because they pawned one car earlier this year and had another repossessed, or that the debit card Ms. Lennon inserted into the A.T.M. was courtesy of the state's welfare program.
They ate lunch at the food court, browsed for clothes and just strolled, blending in with everyone else out on a scorching hot summer day. ''It's exactly why we come here,'' Ms. Lennon said. ''It reminds us of our old life.''
For millions who have lost jobs or faced eviction in the economic downturn, homelessness is perhaps the darkest fear of all. In the end, though, for all the devastation wrought by the recession, a vast majority of people who have faced the possibility have somehow managed to avoid it. 
Nevertheless, from 2007 through 2009, the number of families in homeless shelters -- households with at least one adult and one minor child -- leapt to 170,000 from 131,000, according to the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
With long-term unemployment ballooning, those numbers could easily climb this year. Late in 2009, however, states began distributing $1.5 billion that has been made available over three years by the federal government as part of the stimulus package for the Homeless Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program, which provides financial assistance to keep people in their homes or get them back in one quickly if they lose them.
More than 550,000 people have received aid, including more than 1,800 in Rhode Island, with just over a quarter of the money for the program spent so far nationally, state and federal officials said.
Even so, it remains to be seen whether the program is keeping pace with the continuing economic hardship.
On Aug. 9, Mr. Griffith, 40, Ms. Lennon, 26, and their two children, Ava, 3, and Ethan, 16 months, staggered into Crossroads Rhode Island, a shelter that functions as a kind of processing and triage center for homeless families, after a three-day bus journey from Florida.
''It hit me when we got off the bus and walked up and saw the Crossroads building,'' Ms. Lennon said. ''We had all our stuff. We were tired. We'd already had enough, and it was just starting.''
The number of families who have sought help this year at Crossroads has already surpassed the total for all of 2009. Through July, 324 families had come needing shelter, compared with 278 all of last year.
National data on current shelter populations are not yet available, but checks with other major family shelters across the country found similar increases.
The Y.W.C.A. Family Center in Columbus, Ohio, one of the largest family shelters in the state, has seen an occupancy increase of more than 20 percent over the last three months compared with the same period last year. The UMOM New Day Center in Phoenix, the largest family shelter in Arizona, has had a more than 30 percent increase in families calling for shelter over the last few months.
Without national data, it is impossible to say for certain whether these are anomalies. Clearly, however, many families are still being sucked into the swirling financial drain that leads to homelessness.
The Griffith family moved from Rhode Island to Florida two years ago after Mr. Griffith, who was working as a waiter at an Applebee's restaurant, asked to be transferred to one opening in Spring Hill, an hour north of Tampa, where he figured the cost of living would be lower.
He did well at first, earning as much as $25 an hour, including tips. He also got a job as a line cook at another restaurant, where he made $12 an hour.
The family eventually moved into a three-bedroom condominium and lived the typical suburban life, with a sport-utility vehicle and a minivan to cart around their growing family.
In January, however, the restaurant where Mr. Griffith was cooking closed. Then his hours began drying up at Applebee's. The couple had savings, but squandered some of it figuring he would quickly find another job. When he did not, they were evicted from their condo.
They lived with Ms. Lennon's mother at first in her one-bedroom house in Port Richey, Fla., but she made it clear after two months that the arrangement was no longer feasible. The family moved to an R.V. park, paying $186 a week plus utilities. By late July, however, they had mostly run out of options.
They called some 100 shelters in Florida and found that most were full; others would not allow them to stay together.
They considered returning to Rhode Island. An Applebee's in Smithfield agreed to hire Mr. Griffith. They found Crossroads on the Internet and were assured of a spot. Using some emergency money they had left and $150 lent by relatives, they bought bus tickets to Providence.
Now, the family is crammed into a single room at Crossroads' 15-room family shelter, which used to be a funeral home. All four sleep on a pair of single beds pushed together. There is a crib for Ethan, but with all the turmoil, he can now fall asleep only when next to his parents. A lone framed photograph of the couple, dressed up for a night out, sits atop a shelf.
The living conditions are only part of the adjustment; there is also the shelter's long list of rules. No one can be in the living quarters from 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The news is even off-limits as television programming in the common area. Residents were recently barred from congregating around the bench outside.
Infractions bring write-ups; three write-ups bring expulsion.
The changes have taken a toll on the family in small and large ways. Ethan has taken to screaming for no reason. Ava had been on the verge of being potty-trained, but is now back to diapers. Their nap schedules and diets are a mess. Their parents are squabbling more and have started smoking again.
Mr. Griffith found that he could work only limited hours at his new job because of the bus schedule. The family did qualify last week for transitional housing, but that usually takes a month to finalize. They are still pursuing rapid rehousing assistance.
Others at the shelter with no job prospects face a steeper climb meeting the requirements.
Every few days, new families arrive. A few hours after the Griffiths got back from the mall, a young woman pushing a stroller with a toddler rang the shelter doorbell, quietly weeping.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nick Griffith with his daughter, Ava, and son, Ethan, at Crossroads Rhode Island, a shelter in Providence where the family has lived since last month. (A20)
Lacey Lennon, at a shelter with her son, Ethan Griffith, applying for housing programs.
 Ava Griffith, 3, has had a setback since moving with her family into a homeless shelter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHERINE TAYLOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); FAMILY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); EVICTION (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); REPOSSESSION (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); RETAILERS (71%); CITIES (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



326 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: A Cincinnati Ice Cream Maker Aims Big

BYLINE: By BOB DRIEHAUS

 BODY:
CINCINNATI -- Bud Currie wields a metal paddle to furiously transfer thick ice cream crammed with Oreo cookie bits from a two-gallon cylinder into pints that will ship to grocery stores. For eight hours a day, his handiwork is the closest thing to mass production found in a new plant here that makes Graeter's ice cream, a fourth-generation family brand that is a regional icon with national -- if risky -- ambitions.
Mr. Currie, Graeter's head packer, will be busier than ever as Graeter's, founded in 1870, increases production in the first new plant it has opened since 1934. The company hopes to use the plant to quadruple production and challenge the heavyweights Haagen-Dazs and Ben & Jerry's nationwide, an ambitious target considering its current distribution is limited to 45 ice cream parlors and pint sales at 1,500 Kroger supermarkets throughout the Midwest, Texas and Colorado. Now, it is heading to the coasts. 
Its competitors in the superpremium ice cream segment -- generally defined by the industry as having at least 14 percent milk fat and high-quality ingredients -- have far greater name recognition and marketing budgets.
''What is unique to Graeter's, I believe, is that they are just the best out there,'' said Larry Finkel, director of food and beverage research at Marketresearch.com in New York. Based on a study of the frozen dessert market that he completed in January, Mr. Finkel said he believed the little family company can make it big.
''In a recession, it's a cheap way to feel luxuriated,'' he said. ''That's what consumers are looking for, rather than going on a big trip or buying a new car or home.''
Superpremium ice cream accounts for 14.4 percent of frozen dessert sales, with $1.4 billion in annual sales, he said. Graeter's annual sales of $20 million are small compared with the big two, but it sees room for growth.
Cincinnati and its suburbs are blanketed with 14 ice cream parlors run by the family, serving sundaes and milkshakes and, in some locations, bakery goods. The owners still operate stores opened in the 1920s and 1930s by their great-grandmother.
Graeter's relied on a converted printing plant in the city's historic Over-the-Rhine neighborhood to make most of its ice cream. The new plant, built in another old city neighborhood on an industrial strip, is not much larger but was designed for a robot to move pints onto pallets in the arctic freezer. Kinks were still to be worked out. ''We need a warmer blanket,'' said Richard Graeter II, the company's president and chief executive, as a worker, bundled in layers, substituted for the machine.
Regardless of volume, Graeter's plans will adhere to the labor-intensive, small-batch French pot method of making ice cream, pouring a simple mixture of cream, eggs, sugar and the batch's flavoring into rotating two-gallon cylinders.
Mr. Graeter, 46, and his cousins and partners, brothers Bob and Chip Graeter, plan to stick religiously to the formula.
The company's growth trajectory has spiked at times over the years with the help of celebrity endorsements, none greater than Oprah Winfrey's declaration, made on her show in 2002, that Graeter's was the best she had ever tasted. ''We were shipping about 40 boxes a day,'' Mr. Graeter said. ''After her show, the next day we probably shipped 400.''
Louis Graeter first sold his ice cream from a cart at a street market in 1870 and opened his first retail store around 1873, according to ''Graeter's Ice Cream, An Irresistible History,'' by Robin Davis Heigel.
Now it is considering opening ''big brand statement stores,'' in Mr. Graeter's words, in cities like Atlanta, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles and New York.
The investment carries a risk that the family considers necessary to keep the company thriving, Mr. Graeter said. ''Our family has always been contented to make a little less profit in order to ensure our long-term survival,'' he said. ''It is a trait that we intend to drum into the fifth generation the same way that our fathers drummed it into us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Graeter II, president of Graeter's ice cream. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LYONS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (91%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); ICE CREAM MFG (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); FROZEN DESSERTS (89%); FROZEN FOODS (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); BUDGETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); BAKED GOODS (58%)

COMPANY: KROGER CO (69%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (56%); MARKETRESEARCH.COM INC (54%)

TICKER: KR (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (69%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (69%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (56%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); MIDWEST USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



327 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; ABOVE THE LAW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2511 words

HEADLINE: Using Microsoft, Russia Suppresses Dissent

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
IRKUTSK, Russia -- It was late one afternoon in January when a squad of plainclothes police officers arrived at the headquarters of a prominent environmental group here. They brushed past the staff with barely a word and instead set upon the computers before carting them away. Taken were files that chronicled a generation's worth of efforts to protect the Siberian wilderness.
The group, Baikal Environmental Wave, was organizing protests against Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin's decision to reopen a paper factory that had polluted nearby Lake Baikal, a natural wonder that by some estimates holds 20 percent of the world's fresh water.
Instead, the group fell victim to one of the authorities' newest tactics for quelling dissent: confiscating computers under the pretext of searching for pirated Microsoft software. 
Across Russia, the security services have carried out dozens of similar raids against outspoken advocacy groups or opposition newspapers in recent years. Security officials say the inquiries reflect their concern about software piracy, which is rampant in Russia. Yet they rarely if ever carry out raids against advocacy groups or news organizations that back the government.
As the ploy grows common, the authorities are receiving key assistance from an unexpected partner: Microsoft itself. In politically tinged inquiries across Russia, lawyers retained by Microsoft have staunchly backed the police.
Interviews and a review of law enforcement documents show that in recent cases, Microsoft lawyers made statements describing the company as a victim and arguing that criminal charges should be pursued. The lawyers rebuffed pleas by accused journalists and advocacy groups, including Baikal Wave, to refrain from working with the authorities. Baikal Wave, in fact, said it had purchased and installed legal Microsoft software specifically to deny the authorities an excuse to raid them. The group later asked Microsoft for help in fending off the police. ''Microsoft did not want to help us, which would have been the right thing to do,'' said Marina Rikhvanova, a Baikal Environmental Wave co-chairwoman and one of Russia's best-known environmentalists. ''They said these issues had to be handled by the security services.''
Microsoft executives in Moscow and at the company's headquarters in Redmond, Wash., asserted that they did not initiate the inquiries and that they took part in them only because they were required to do so under Russian law.
After The New York Times presented its reporting to senior Microsoft officials, the company responded that it planned to tighten its oversight of its legal affairs in Russia. Human rights organizations in Russia have been pressing Microsoft to do so for months. The Moscow Helsinki Group sent a letter to Microsoft this year saying that the company was complicit in ''the persecution of civil society activists.''
Tough Ethical Choices
Microsoft, like many American technology giants doing business in authoritarian countries, is often faced with ethical choices over government directives to help suppress dissent. In China, Microsoft has complied with censorship rules in operating its Web search service, preventing Chinese users from easily accessing banned information. Its archrival Google stopped following censorship regulations there, and scaled back its operations inside China's Internet firewall.
In Russia, leaders of advocacy groups and newspapers subjected to antipiracy raids said Microsoft was cooperating with the authorities because the company feared jeopardizing its business in the country. They said Microsoft needed to issue a categorical public statement disavowing these tactics and pledging to never cooperate in such cases.
Microsoft has not done that, but has promised to review its policies in Russia.
''We take the concerns that have been raised very seriously,'' Kevin Kutz, director of public affairs for Microsoft, said in a statement. Mr. Kutz said the company would ensure that its lawyers had ''more clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities.''
''We have to protect our products from piracy, but we also have a commitment to respect fundamental human rights,'' he said. ''Microsoft antipiracy efforts are designed to honor both objectives, but we are open to feedback on what we can do to improve in that regard.''
Microsoft emphasized that it encouraged law enforcement agencies worldwide to investigate producers and suppliers of illegal software rather than consumers. Even so, it has not publicly criticized raids against small Russian advocacy groups.
With pirated software prevalent in this country, it is not surprising that some of these groups might have some on their computers. Yet the issue, then, is why the police choose to focus on these particular targets -- and whether they falsify evidence to make the charges more serious.
Microsoft also says it has a program in Russia to provide free and low-cost software to newspapers and advocacy groups so that they are in compliance with the law.
But the review of these cases indicates that the security services often seize computers whether or not they contain illegal software. The police immediately filed reports saying they had discovered such programs, before even examining the computers in detail. The police claims have in numerous instances been successfully discredited by defendants when the cases go before judges.
Given the suspicions that these investigations are politically motivated, the police and prosecutors have turned to Microsoft to lend weight to their cases. In southwestern Russia, the Interior Ministry declared in an official document that its investigation of a human rights advocate for software piracy was begun ''based on an application'' from a lawyer for Microsoft.
In another city, Samara, the police seized computers from two opposition newspapers, with the support of a different Microsoft lawyer. ''Without the participation of Microsoft, these criminal cases against human rights defenders and journalists would simply not be able to occur,'' said the editor of the newspapers, Sergey Kurt-Adzhiyev.
The plainclothes officers who descended upon the Baikal Wave headquarters said they were from the division that investigated commercial crime. But the environmentalists said they noticed at least one officer from the antiextremism department, which tracks opposition activists and had often conducted surveillance on the group.
The officers said they had received a complaint from a man named Dmitri Latyshev, who claimed that he had been in the headquarters and spotted unlicensed Microsoft software on the computers. The police produced a handwritten complaint from Mr. Latyshev, dated Jan. 27. The raid occurred the next day.
People at Baikal Wave said they had never seen or heard of Mr. Latyshev. Located in Irkutsk recently, Mr. Latyshev said by phone that he had filed the complaint but would not say why.
Baikal Wave's leaders said they had known that the authorities used such raids to pressure advocacy groups, so they had made certain that all their software was legal.
But they quickly realized how difficult it would be to defend themselves.
They said they told the officers that they were mistaken, pulling out receipts and original Microsoft packaging to prove that the software was not pirated. The police did not appear to take that into consideration. A supervising officer issued a report on the spot saying that illegal software had been uncovered.
Before the raid, the environmentalists said their computers were affixed with Microsoft's ''Certificate of Authenticity'' stickers that attested to the software's legality. But as the computers were being hauled away, they noticed something odd: the stickers were gone.
In all, 12 computers were confiscated. The group's Web site was disabled, its finances left in disarray, its plans disclosed to the authorities.
The police also obtained personnel information from the computers. In the following weeks, officers tracked down some of the group's supporters and interrogated them.
''The police had one goal, which was to prevent us from working,'' said Galina Kulebyakina, a co-chairwoman of Baikal Wave. ''They removed our computers because we actively took a position against the paper factory and forcefully voiced it.''
''They can do pretty much what they want, with impunity,'' she said.
A Company's Pollution
The paper factory is located on Lake Baikal, the world's oldest and deepest lake, which is home to hundreds of species that exist nowhere else, including a freshwater seal. Over the years, the factory has spewed mercury, chlorine, heavy metals and other pollutants into the water.
Baikal Wave rejoiced when the factory closed in 2008, having succumbed to sizable losses, as well as pressure from environmentalists. But after the financial crisis hit, the Kremlin worried about unrest from unemployment. In January, Mr. Putin reopened the factory, which has employed as many as 2,000 people, saying that it no longer polluted the lake.
Baikal Wave, which was founded in Irkutsk, one of Russia's largest cities, as the Soviet Union was collapsing, began planning a protest. That was when the officers showed up.
In a statement, the Irkutsk police said the raid was proper. ''The inspection of Baikal Environmental Wave was intended to protect intellectual property and had no connection whatsoever with the activities of the advocacy organization,'' the statement said.
It said a forensic examination of the computers in February showed that several contained illegal software that would have cost more than $3,300. Baikal Wave said the examination was fraudulent.
Prosecutors say they are now weighing whether to press charges against Baikal Wave or its leaders. It is possible, though unlikely, that they could face jail time if convicted.
Neither Microsoft's Moscow office nor its local lawyer contacted Baikal Wave to hear its side. The lawyer did provide testimony to the police about the value of the software that Baikal Wave was accused of illegally obtaining.
Baikal Wave sent copies of its software receipts and other documentation to Microsoft's Moscow office to show that it had purchased the software legally. The group said it believed that the authorities would be under pressure to drop the case if Microsoft would confirm the documents' authenticity.
Microsoft declined to do so. In a letter to Baikal Wave, the company said it would forward the materials only to the authorities in Irkutsk, which already had copies of them.
''A determination of the actual circumstances of this case and the question of whether a violation of the law took place is the duty of the court,'' Microsoft said.
The company also told Baikal Wave that it was willing to have its specialists assist the police in Irkutsk in evaluating the computers.
In response to written questions, Alexander Strakh, Microsoft's chief antipiracy lawyer in Moscow, said that in all these cases, Microsoft assisted the authorities only as called for under Russian law.
Mr. Strakh was asked whether Microsoft believed that these raids were a tool to suppress the opposition. ''We have no direct knowledge of decisions by authorities to use investigations in that manner,'' he said.
Microsoft has hired numerous private lawyers across Russia who represent the company in piracy cases. Several of the lawyers have cropped up in these politically sensitive inquiries.
This year, prosecutors in the southwestern city of Krasnodar brought a piracy case against an immigrant rights activist named Anastasia Denisova. She said in an interview that she was surprised at the aggressive posture of Microsoft's local lawyer.
In an official document, the Interior Ministry said the case against Ms. Denisova was begun ''based on an application'' from the lawyer. (Microsoft's Moscow office said that statement was not correct.)
Ms. Denisova said the lawyer overestimated the value of the allegedly pirated software. As a result, the accusations were more serious.
''The Microsoft lawyer was very active, coming to the court all the time, even though he was not summoned,'' she said. ''He also claimed that he was going to sue me, despite the fact that Microsoft had publicly stated that it would not do so against an advocacy group.''
In May, after Ms. Denisova had spent several months under the threat of a prison sentence, the charges were dropped. Prosecutors acknowledged that the investigation had been mishandled.
Samara, in Russia's industrial heartland, has been a focal point for these raids. In May 2007, when Mr. Putin was holding a summit meeting there with European leaders, the police sought to prevent protests by seizing computers from several organizations, including Golos, an election monitoring and human rights group, and the local edition of Novaya Gazeta, the country's most influential opposition newspaper.
Last year, they took computers from another newspaper, Samarskaya Gazeta. According to case records, the police conducted that search based upon a complaint from a man who admitted that he had never been in the newspaper's offices or seen its computers.
Mr. Kurt-Adzhiyev, the editor of both newspapers, said Microsoft's lawyer in the case regularly appeared at court hearings to back prosecutors and the police. He said the lawyer testified that seized computers contained pirated software even though it was later shown that the computers had never been examined.
''Microsoft says publicly that they have no claims in these cases, but then their lawyers come into the court and say whatever the police want them to say,'' Mr. Kurt-Adzhiyev said.
The Damage Is Done
Prosecutors eventually dropped or suspended the charges against Mr. Kurt-Adzhiyev after he was able to discredit them. But he said the damage was done. He said the newspapers lost computers and data, and he spent an enormous amount of time ensnared in legal proceedings. The local edition of Novaya Gazeta had to close.
Mr. Kurt-Adzhiyev said he now realized that the authorities were not so much interested in convictions as in harassing opponents. Even if the inquiries are abandoned, they are debilitating when they require months to defend.
Microsoft's Moscow office said its lawyers had conducted themselves properly in the cases in Krasnodar and Samara.
In Irkutsk, Baikal Environmental Wave has also struggled to recover from the raid. It located some old computers and was still able to hold protests against the paper factory.
The seized computers were not returned by the police until July, five months after they were removed. Their hard drives had been inspected by police experts in February. The environmentalists do not know whether all their data remain, and they are sure that files were copied.
Ms. Rikhvanova, one of the group's co-founders, who has been fighting to defend Lake Baikal since the 1960s, was unable to use her computer. When she got it back, she discovered that it had been disabled by a virus.
Above the Law: Articles in this series examine corruption and abuse of power in Russia two decades after the end of Communism.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LAKE FIGHT: Top, Baikal Environmental Wave protested in June against a paper factory on the shores of Lake Baikal, months after security forces seized its computers. Galina Kulebyakina, left, a co-chairwoman of the group, said, ''The police had one goal, which was to prevent us from working.'' Right, dead fish by the lake. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALERI NISTRATOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MISHA JAPARIDZE/THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) CHART: Raids in the Name of Microsoft: The security services in Russia have confiscated computers in dozens of raids on outspoken advocacy groups and opposition newspapers that are supposedly aimed at cracking down on pirated Microsoft software. The raids typically occur when the opposition is trying to focus attention on an event or cause. (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); LAKES (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); WRITERS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



328 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Behind My Seven Phone Numbers

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
THE definition of a nerd, it has been said, is someone who has more e-mail addresses than pants.
I have three addresses and three pairs of pants, so I guess I am borderline, using that criterion.
But what does it mean that I have seven phone numbers? There is my home landline, my office landline, my cellphone, a Google Voice phone number and three other Internet-connected phone numbers.
That's 70 digits to manage -- yet I rarely talk on the phone and always try to avoid answering one. 
I may well be a nerd, but there is a reason for all those numbers. Like a lot of other people, I've been searching for new ways to communicate as the phone system that has served us well for more than 130 years morphs into another, still uncertain form.
Fewer people have landlines. A quarter of American homes use only cellphones. We are talking less and texting more. And as we use more data on cellphones that are really hand-held computers, we must search for alternative networks, usually Wi-Fi, to bypass a strained cellphone network.
All of those phone numbers, then, are the residue of my experiments to find a system to not only stay in touch, but also to find one, or two, reliable ways that people can use to contact me. The multiple numbers parallel the numerous text- and instant-messaging systems I use, like Google Chat, Twitter, Facebook and AIM.
It's not just consumers who are using the phone system differently. The phone companies are way ahead of us -- and couldn't be happier that consumers are shifting to texting. The economics are clearly in the companies' favor. The cellphone carriers rival Vitamin Water or Hewlett-Packard and its printer ink cartridges in their ability to extract a high-profit margin from a seemingly mundane product.
Text messages take up very little space -- about 140 bytes, as they are being transmitted. That's really why text messages are kept short. How much are we really paying for them? As much as $1,498 per megabyte. Here's some of the math:
There are 1,048,576 bytes in a megabyte, so 7,490 text messages are transmitted in each one. The cellphone companies charge about 20 cents a text message, adding up to that $1,498 a megabyte. (And yes, you are charged that rate whether you write 160 characters or just ''LOL.'')
Of course, for a more personal idea of how expensive texting is, ask any parent who has ever been floored by the phone bill of a child without an unlimited texting plan.
But the unlimited plans, generally costing about $20, are only a relative bargain. The average texter sends about 500 text messages a month, according to Nielsen, the media measurement firm. That drops the price of a single text message to 4 cents, or to $300 a megabyte.
Nielsen says the average teenager sends 3,146 messages a month. Even at that volume -- an average of about 104 texts a day -- the phone company is extracting $47.62 a megabyte.
At the same time, cellphone companies charge roughly 15 cents a megabyte in an unlimited data plan -- data in this case meaning Web surfing, streaming music or video or sending e-mail. To explain why there is such a big difference, Verizon Wireless and AT&T, the two largest wireless carriers, say that text messages travel on a voice network and data on a separate data network -- and that I am comparing apples and oranges.
But industry analysts say the phone companies are facing problems that will continue to hasten the shift to Internet calling. The revenue from voice calls is falling, and revenue from text messaging will flatten, according to analysts at Morgan Stanley.
That's not devastating to the carriers because revenue from data is growing fast. It is expected to double over the next four years, partly because carriers are moving away from the unlimited plans and toward tiered pricing, in which those people who use more data will pay more. The cost of transmitting the data, meanwhile, is falling by 50 percent with each new generation of wireless network, Morgan Stanley says.
But the wider use of data is straining the capacity of the networks. So the carriers try to offload traffic from the cell networks. And they are doing exactly what consumers are doing -- moving to Wi-Fi.
To shift the burden on its network to the Internet, AT&T is selling microcells to its cellphone customers, which they install inside their homes.
Up on the roofs of large buildings, meanwhile, the carriers are installing wireless routers to offload about 20 percent or more of the peak traffic to Wi-Fi. AT&T says it has more than 20,000 hot spots in the United States. ''AT&T is doing it big time,'' said Selina Lo, the chief executive of Ruckus, a company that makes the Wi-Fi hardware. Its equipment is much cheaper than the cost of building an additional cell tower. ''It's an easy way to offload traffic,'' she said.
If Wi-Fi were widespread, I could use an iPod Touch as an ersatz cellphone. And I wouldn't need yet another phone number.
But it might be time for some new pants.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); INSTANT MESSAGING (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (76%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (67%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



329 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 70

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Globetrotting While Staying Close to Home

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Last year, for whatever reason -- the economy, accidents of scheduling -- our encyclopedic museums fell short on global mojo. Across the country ambitious shows of non-Western art were scarce. When this happens, history gets stalled; we get small. In the most culturally interconnected time ever, familiarity with the art of the rest of the world, which means exposure to other ideas and values, just makes practical sense: it keeps us in the cosmopolitan loop, makes us full citizens. When the art isn't there and in clarifying contexts, we drop back on the learning curve when we should be moving ahead.
Fortunately the perspective broadens out this season, beginning on Sept. 28 when ''The World of Khubilai Khan: Chinese Art in the Yuan Dynasty,'' opens at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. With a raft of assiduously negotiated Chinese loans, the show documents an era when China was for the first time subjugated to foreign rule. 
Talk about culture shock. When the Mongol ruler Kublai Khan established the Yuan dynasty (1279-1368), pungent aesthetic impulses flowed in from all over Central and Western Asia, soaking into Chinese traditions, creating a hybrid art that became, and would remain, a new norm to be embraced or resisted. No medium was more radically altered than ink-and-brush painting, as Chinese artists turned from description to expressionism, from nature out there to nature as a personal, interior force. To illustrate the shift, the Met has organized, from its own collection, a separate show, already up and running, called ''The Yuan Revolution: Art and Dynastic Change.'' In any other museum it would be a marquee event. At the Met it's one spellbinder piggy-backed on a larger one.
Non-Western surveys often cover huge blocks of time: generations, epochs. In many cases they're laying out a history in art for the first time. The big-picture approach makes sense. Another straight-from-China show this season, ''The Emperor's Private Paradise: Treasures From the Forbidden City,'' which has its debut at the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Mass., on Sept. 14, has a narrower scope: the reign of a single 18th-century Qing dynasty ruler. But the material is still overwhelming. The ruler, called the Qianlong emperor, stayed on the throne for 60 years and collected art like mad, and art of all sorts: big, small, new, old, good, bad: enough to fill the two dozen-plus buildings of the palace complex known as the Forbidden City. The 90 objects coming to Salem -- Buddhist paintings, lacquer screens, jade carving, trompe-l'oeil murals, all on loan from Beijing -- are the merest tip of a flamboyantly decorative pack-rat heap.
At exactly the time this Chinese ruler was stockpiled bling, so were Muslim rulers in northern India. And their story unfolds in ''India's Fabled City: The Art of Courtly Lucknow'' at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, opening Dec. 12. The Nawabs of Lucknow were opulence addicts with liberal appetites; steeped in a leftover Mughal culture they eagerly sampled European fare until the colonial encounter turned sour, then catastrophic. Photographs of a Lucknow courtyard strewn with the bones of anti-British rebels tell that tale.
For a very different take on India there's ''Vishnu: Hinduism's Blue-Skinned Savior,'' which originates at the Frist Center for the Visual Arts in Nashville on Feb. 25, and heads to the Brooklyn Museum in June. Vishnu is an elusive quick-change deity; this show is designed to catalog the manifold forms he assumed in art. But in the guise of Krishna he is also one of the most beloved figures in the Hindu world, a pop hero.
Is it really possible that this show is, as it claims to be, the first major Western museum survey devoted to him? Quite possibly, given our always-at-the-starting-line knowledge of South Asian culture.
At least it's not revisiting already traveled ground, as certain non-Western shows can do. Will ''Olmec: Colossal Masterworks of Ancient Mexico,'' opening Oct. 2 at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, depart from or add significantly to ''Olmec Art of Ancient Mexico'' in Washington in 1996? I hope so. Museums have an obligation to push scholarship forward. I'm assuming that with the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and the debut in November of its new Art of the Americas wing, that even if the display of the collection is boilerplate, the mere sight of prehistoric Mexican sculpture on continuum with a John Singleton Copley portrait will get some ideas about ''New World'' cooking.
Of all the season's inaugurations, though, the one I've been most looking forward to is the reopening of the Museum for African Art in a new home at 110th Street and Fifth Avenue. Alas, the event has been postponed to next fall. But it will be worth the wait to have the museum in operation again. In the 1980s and '90s it revolutionized the way art, any art, could be exhibited. No one else has fully picked up that challenge since. Maybe the museum itself, under wraps the last few years, can do so again.
In any case, the planned lineup of shows remains strong. One, the traveling sculptural exhibition called ''Dynasty and Divinity: Ife Art of Ancient Nigeria,'' which wasn't scheduled get to New York for a while anyway, can be seen on the road elsewhere -- it lands at the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston on Sept. 19 -- and it's fabulous. Its bronze and terra cotta portrait heads, some dating to the 12th century A.D., most on loan from Nigerian museums, are as gorgeous as sculpture gets anytime, anywhere. Also on the museum's books is ''El Anatsui: When I Last Wrote to You About Africa,'' which has its own kind of classics. Born in Ghana in 1944, now in Nigeria, Mr. Anatsui has been making consistently interesting art for 40 years, from ceramic sculptures based after prehistoric African models to gouged wood reliefs symbolizing a continent's scarred history.
He has always earned critical respect, but his recent gleaming, fabriclike sculptures made from crushed bottle caps inspire adulation. Every museum either owns one of these pieces, or aspires to. Will his reputation come to rest exclusively on these seductive workshop-generated sculptures? Will their popularity make him the newest token African artist for Western collectors, behind South Africans like William Kentridge and Robin Rhode?
Speaking of South Africa, the nation's international-style art infrastructure has been a big help in placing its artists in the global picture, and that visibility continues this season in ''Impressions from South Africa: Printed Art 1960s to Now'' at the Museum of Modern Art in March, and in the current ''Darkroom: Photography and New Media in South Africa Since 1950'' at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond, through Oct. 24.
If Africa's at MoMA, you have to wonder: Are we at the tipping point of a trend? Could be. Something called the ''Global Africa Project,'' bulging with names familiar and not, kicks off at the Museum of Art and Design on Nov. 17. The African-American artist Radcliffe Bailey will pair his own work with African objects at the High Museum in Atlanta. And in February traditional work that looks -- and is -- utterly of the moment gets the spotlight in ''Central Nigeria Unmasked: Arts of the Benue River Valley'' at the Fowler Museum at the University of California, Los Angeles.
The Fowler will also host, from March 23 through 26, the 15th Triennial Symposium on African Art, a scholarly gathering like no other. Its mixes history, anthropology, religious studies, ethics and politics the way African art mixes sculpture, painting, performance, installation, sound art and Conceptualism.
Neither that art, nor the people who study it, can be said to think outside the box, because they don't have a box, just the world.
And in a sense African art, some of it fundamentally ephemeral in nature, is beyond art history, because that history depends on ordinary time and African does not. Maybe that's why it looks fresh and new every time we return to it; forever new being, in this context, in this season, O.K.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Art from the ''Olmec'' show, near right, coming to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art
from ''The World of Khubilai Khan,'' far right top, coming to the Metropolitan Museum
and from ''India's Fabled City,'' also coming to Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAVIER HINOJOSA/INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE ANTROPOLOGIA E HISTORIA
NATIONAL PALACE MUSEUM, TAIPEI
 MUSEUM FUR ISLAMISCHE KUNST, STAATLICHE MUSEEN, BERLIN, GERMANY/BILDARCHIV PREUSSISCHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ART COLLECTING (77%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); WESTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (79%); ASIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



330 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Housing Doesn't Need a Crash. It Needs Bold Ideas.

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
WE all know that most of us don't tackle problems until they've morphed into full-blown crises. Think of all those intersections that get stop signs only after a bunch of accidents have occurred.
Better yet, think about the housing market.
Only now, after it has become all too clear that the government's feeble efforts to ''help'' troubled homeowners have failed, are people considering more substantive approaches to tackling the mortgage and real estate mess. Unfortunately, it's taken the ugly specter of a free fall or deep freeze in many real estate markets to get people talking about bolder alternatives. 
One reason the Treasury's housing programs have caused so much frustration among borrowers -- and yielded so few results -- is that they seemed intended to safeguard the financial viability of big banks and big lenders at homeowners' expense.
For example, the government -- in order, it believed, to protect the financial system from crumbling -- has never forced banks to put a realistic valuation on some of the sketchy mortgage loans they still have on their books (like the $400 billion in second mortgages they hold).
All those loans have been accounted for at artificially lofty levels, and have thereby provided bogus padding on balance sheets of banks that own them. Banks' refusal to write down these loans has made it harder for average borrowers to reduce their mortgage obligations, leaving them in financial distress or limbo and dinging their ability to be the reliable consumers everyone wants them to be.
Various proposals are being batted around to address the mortgage morass; one is to do nothing and let real estate markets crash. That way, the argument goes, buyers would snap up bargains and housing prices would stabilize.
Yet little about this trillion-dollar problem is so simple. While letting things crash may seem a good idea, there are serious potential complications. Here's just one: Many lenders and some government agencies bar borrowers who sold their homes for less than the outstanding loan balance -- known as a ''short sale'' -- from receiving a new mortgage within a certain period, sometimes a few years.
For example, delinquent borrowers who conducted a short sale are ineligible for a new mortgage insured by the Federal Housing Administration for three years; Fannie Mae blocks such borrowers for at least two years. Private lenders have similar guidelines.
Such rules made sense in normal times, but their current effect is to keep many people out of the market for years. And as home prices have plunged, leaving legions of borrowers underwater on loans, short sales have exploded. CoreLogic, an analytic research firm, estimates that 400,000 short sales are taking place each year.
More can be expected: 68 percent of properties in Nevada are worth less than the outstanding mortgage, CoreLogic said, while half in Arizona and 46 percent in Florida are underwater.
''There is this perception that maybe we should let the market crash and then prices will level off and people will come out and buy,'' said Pam Marron, a senior mortgage adviser at the Waterstone Mortgage Corporation near Tampa, Fla. ''But where are the buyers going to come from? So many borrowers are underwater and they're stuck; they can't buy another home.''
There is no doubt that real estate and mortgage markets remain deeply dysfunctional in many places. Given that the mess was caused by years of poisonous lending, regulatory inaction and outright fraud -- and yes, irresponsible borrowing -- this is no surprise. Throw in the complexity of working out loans in mortgage pools whose ownership may be unclear, and the problem seems intractable.
The moral hazard associated with helping troubled borrowers while penalizing responsible ones who didn't take on outsize risks adds to the difficulties.
STILL, there are real, broad economic gains to be had by helping people who are paying their mortgages to remain in their homes. Figuring out how to reduce their payments can reward responsible borrowers while slowing the vicious spiral of foreclosures, falling home prices and more foreclosures. And it just might help restore people's confidence in the economy and get them buying again.
With that in mind, let's recall an idea described in this space on Nov. 16, 2008. As conceived by two Wall Street veterans, Thomas H. Patrick, a co-founder of New Vernon Capital, and Macauley Taylor, principal at Verum Capital, the plan calls for refinancing all the nonprime, performing loans held in privately issued mortgage pools (except for Fannie's and Freddie's) at a lower rate.
The mass refinancing could have helped borrowers, while retiring mortgage securities at par and thus helping pension funds, banks and other investors in those pools recover paper losses created when prices plummeted. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could have financed the deal with debt.
In the fall of 2008, when Mr. Patrick and Mr. Taylor tried to get traction with their proposal, roughly $1.5 trillion in mortgages sat in these pools. Of that, $1.1 trillion was still performing.
Instead of refinancing those mortgages, however, the Washington powers-that-be hurled $750 billion of taxpayer money into the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which bailed out banks instead. Though one goal was to get banks lending again, it hasn't happened.
Now, almost two years later, $1.065 trillion of nonprime loans is sloshing around in private mortgage pools, according to CoreLogic's securities database. While CoreLogic doesn't report the dollar amount of loans that are performing, it said that as of last June, two-thirds of the 1.6 million loans in those pools were 60 days or more delinquent.
That means one-third of the borrowers in these pools are paying their mortgages. But it is likely that many of these people owe more on their loans than their homes are worth and would benefit greatly from an interest-rate cut.
If Fannie and Freddie bought these loans out of the pools at par and reduced their interest rates, additional foreclosures might be avoided. The only downside to the government would be if some loans it purchased went bad.
The benefits of the plan could easily outweigh the risks. Institutions holding these loans would be fully repaid, a lot of borrowers would be helped and additional foreclosures that are so damaging to neighborhoods might be averted.
''Every program that the government has announced was focused on bad credits, but they were trying to fix a hole that is too big,'' Mr. Patrick said. ''The idea is to try to preserve the decent risks and not let them go bad.''
At the very least, this is a sophisticated and realistic idea that's still worth considering.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); SECOND MORTGAGES (72%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (62%); CORELOGIC INC (50%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



331 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Blending Vintage and Modern

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
WHEN work began several years ago on a 31-unit condominium at 100 Engert Avenue in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, the interior appointments were designed to appeal to a wide range of buyers: stainless-steel appliances, granite counters and cherry wood cabinets.
But part way through, one of the project's developers, Steven Hurwitz, a principal of GFI Development, scrapped the sleek finishes and asked designers to deliver the vintage industrial style popularized in Lower Manhattan neighborhoods like SoHo and TriBeCa. 
The condos' rough-hewn wood floors, deep farmhouse sinks and midcentury-style refrigerators by Big Chill seem to have resonated with buyers. The project, called Century Vintage, has only five units left, with condos selling for around $630 a square foot, Mr. Hurwitz said.
''Once the economy began to falter and crumble, and the world started to change, we decided we wanted to do back-to-basics design -- something more homey and unique,'' Mr. Hurwitz said. The remaining one- and two-bedroom apartments are listed at $499,000 to $595,000. The project was developed by GFI and East Wing Construction.
Other finishes and fixtures include wood bar tops, antiqued doorbells, lantern-like lighting and wooden toilet seats. ''A lot of people who come through have been looking for a while, and you can see it in their eyes: it's refreshing for them,'' said Brad Phillips, a sales agent for the building with Aptsandlofts.com.
''They look at the rounded corners on the walls and the baseboards, and they know the developer was going the extra mile. He didn't need to do that.''
Katie Ridder, an interior designer not affiliated with the project, said the inclusion of vintage elements into contemporary condo design was a clever idea, along the same lines as the customization that buyers might do on their own.
''So many of those condo spaces are just hard and cold and run-of-the-mill, and they get switched out anyway,'' Ms. Ridder said. ''You want to add something -- mirror the backsplash -- or do exactly what this developer is doing, adding a beautiful farmhouse sink in place of what's expected.''
A lobby of reclaimed odds and ends like faded wood signs, soda-water bottles, antler frames and peeling oil paintings, along with the spaciousness of the condos, attracted Poliana Duarte, a commercial interior designer who bought a two-bedroom with her husband in March. ''We looked for a year and a half at all these 'luxury buildings,' and they all looked a little bit like fake luxury to us,'' said Ms. Duarte, who moved from TriBeCa. ''But as soon as you walk in the lobby here, you can tell everything is well thought out, like there was care taken. I could tell that, even if they were trying to save money, they were trying to save it with good taste, quality and durability.''
The building's interior designer, Hadas Metzler of Hadas Design, said she blended the vintage and the modern into a style reflective of a handful of bars, stores and hotels popular with trend-setting city dwellers in their 30s, who largely make up the market for Century Vintage. Her style models include Freemans restaurant on the Lower East Side and the Ace Hotel (also by GFI Development) on West 29th Street.
''A lot of these people who live in Williamsburg hang out at bars and clubs that kind of have this feel,'' Ms. Metzler said, ''and bringing it into their home is kind of very familiar.''
Ms. Metzler and Ari S. Heckman, the founder of ASH NYC, which decorated the model apartments, lobby and gym, said they were consciously departing from the minimalist finishes found in many new condos.
''Around 2007,'' Mr. Heckman said, ''I noticed every new project was either trying to be high minimalist modern, but usually emulating that style poorly due to tight budgets, or going in the other direction of almost suburban, with the rich cherry cabinets and gray marble countertops, which didn't seem authentic to New York at all.''
Despite the sales success of Century Vintage, Ms. Metzler said she doubted many developers would choose to emulate the project's style. Apart from the difficulties in achieving the vintage industrial look in multiple units, it requires taking a risk financially, she said.
''There's a reason most condos have a very generic design, and that's because you don't know who your buyer is, so you don't want to specify something that could be really unappealing,'' Ms. Metzler said. ''The developer took a big risk, but a good one, in this project.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOMEY TOUCHES: Century Vintage condos make use of finishes like subway tile alongside more contemporary elements. (RE1)
 WHAT'S COOKIN'? The kitchens in the Century Vintage condominiums feature midcentury-style refrigerators and more subway tile. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PAINTING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



332 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Elizabeth H. Berger

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Ms. Berger, 50, is the president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, a nonprofit organization that manages the business improvement district, providing Manhattan's financial district with services like sanitation and security, economic development, streetscape improvements and marketing.
Q Has Lower Manhattan fully recovered since Sept. 11, 2001? 
A It has recovered and then some.
The residential population has more than doubled. When I moved to Lower Manhattan in 1982, there were about 10,000 people living here. On 9/11, there were about 24,000 people, and today there are 55,000. We've seen many new condos and condops.
We've also had an explosion in hotels. We had six hotels with 2,300 rooms on 9/11; we now have 17, with 3,700 rooms and another 680 set to open.
We've had close to 300 business relocations since 2005, which was when we started tracking it, and what's interesting is that less than 15 percent of the relocations post-9/11 are financial services. They're professional services, nonprofit, media companies.
Q Speaking of media, it seems Conde Nast will very likely relocate to One World Trade Center.
A How exciting is that! From what I hear, there are very serious negotiations going on. They really will be real leaders, though we already have 59 media tenants in Lower Manhattan, from The Paris Review to The Jerusalem Post and WOR.
Q Are you pleased with the overall redevelopment plan at ground zero?
A The World Trade Center was kind of an anomaly from a planning perspective -- it was this superblock that cut off Greenwich Street and the whole area known as Greenwich South from the rest of Lower Manhattan, and it separated the financial district from Battery Park City. So what I think is fantastic about the Daniel Libeskind site plan -- and the interpretations from Fumihiko Maki and David Childs and the rest of the architects -- is that it restores the grid.
Q Do you think we should have been further along with construction?
A I think it's taken a long time, though I have to say there was a lot happening that wasn't visible. Now it's really happening.
We've had a summer of great news: we had ratification of the financing deal between Larry Silverstein and the Port Authority; One World Trade is now at 38 floors; 4 World Trade Center is at 6 floors; and there are trees on the plaza for the memorial.
I also think the selection of the Durst Organization as a partner in One World Trade, the very strong interest of Conde Nast, along with the possibility that Bank of America is interested in space there, are real signs that people get that there is movement. I've also watched what has been happening from my own balcony.
Q You've lived in Lower Manhattan for the past three decades.
A I lived across the street from the World Trade Center. It was the only place to buy a loaf of bread. It was where my kids learned to roller-skate and ride a bike.
Q How did 9/11 affect you personally?
A I saw the first plane before it hit. I was standing in front of P. S. 234 talking to another kindergarten parent when all of a sudden I looked up and saw this plane, and I thought, ''That's weird, do planes usually fly that low?'' Forty-five seconds later everyone ran into the school. My 2-year-old, who was at home, was actually the one who told my husband what was going on. He said, 'Daddy, Daddy, fire truck!'' My son was looking out the window and watched the explosion.
We were out of our home for four months. There was that thin layer of dust -- and you didn't know what was in it -- that covered everything.
Q What's your stand on the proposed Islamic community center and mosque near ground zero?
A I'm with the mayor. I think if we're committed to American values of freedom of religion and tolerance, how could we be against the establishment of another religious institution? I think the issue has been hijacked by people who mostly don't live or work in Lower Manhattan.
Q What do you see as the area's strongest attributes?
A What I love about Lower Manhattan is that it has the biggest buildings on the smallest streets. It's an internationally known destination but it's a little village, so you really know your neighbors. It's intensely walkable and at the center of a regional transportation hub. And there's the connection to the water -- it's one of the few place in Manhattan where you know it's an island.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



333 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Baby, You Can Rent My Car

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
IT is the sort of challenge that makes an economist's heart beat faster: wringing some revenue out of a privately owned midsize car that costs about $8,000 a year to own and operate, according to AAA, but spends most of its time sitting in the driveway or parking garage. 
Shelby Clark set out to solve the problem of these underutilized assets with RelayRides, a service he created to help owners rent their cars by the hour. Mr. Clark, 28, whose service began operations in June, estimates that car owners in the RelayRides program can recoup hundreds of dollars a month to offset car payments, insurance and other costs of ownership.
Mr. Clark happened onto the idea two winters ago while riding his bicycle to pick up a Zipcar in Boston.
''Along the way, I passed dozens of cars that hadn't been driven in weeks, and it dawned on me that there are these high fixed costs, so perhaps we could leverage this resource,'' said Mr. Clark, who was attending Harvard Business School at the time. ''I began to research how to connect people in their communities.''
The service works in a manner similar to other car-sharing services: members reserve vehicles online at RelayRides' Web site (or by telephone) and use programmed cards to unlock cars that are in commercial or residential parking lots or the owner's driveway. Drivers rent by the hour or day, with gas and insurance fees included in the rate. So far, the service is available only in Boston and nearby Cambridge.
To ensure that renters treat the vehicles well, Mr. Clark personalizes the cars. Renters are told that they are borrowing Anthony's 2010 Toyota Prius, for instance, not just a generic Prius from the corporate fleet. A letter is left in each car to remind drivers that they are in a private individual's car, not a company-owned car.
Likewise, owners are encouraged to keep up with their cars' maintenance and repairs: drivers rate cars they borrow using a five-star system similar to Yelp.
So far, the system seems to work well for owners. Pedro Santos, who works at a tech company in Cambridge, said that the biggest problem he had had since he enrolled with RelayRides this summer was some leaves left on the floor.
Mr. Santos uses his Toyota RAV4 only about 15 hours a month for grocery shopping and other errands. At other times it is available for rental at $10 an hour -- $1 less than a Zipcar parked nearby, he said. RelayRides takes a 15 percent share of the rental fee.
''I'm making some cash from the car,'' said Mr. Santos, who has been earning $200 a month, more than enough to cover his insurance, fuel and other costs. Most customers, he said, borrow his car in the early evenings and on weekends. When he wants to use it, he blocks out his schedule in advance.
''I was a bit hesitant,'' he said, ''but people take extremely good care of my car.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FOUNDER: Shelby Clark started RelayRides to link car owners with renters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL LUTCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); CARPOOL & CARSHARE SERVICES (89%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%)

COMPANY: ZIPCAR INC (56%)

TICKER: ZIP (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



334 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: The Long Workday: Readers' Laments

 BODY:
The Complaint Box last Sunday, on the expanding workday, drew responses from more than
150 readers. Here are excerpts from some of the comments they posted on City Room.
Ten years ago I worked 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. (professional job) -- a 10-hour day, no BlackBerry. Now I normally work 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and a half-day on Sunday -- with an iPhone so that I am really always working because both the boss and the client know I can normally be reached 24/7.
How did this happen? The economy happened, technology happened, demands to do more with less (i.e. layoffs) happened. If someone in your office has been laid off, you work more and harder because you are fearful that you could be next and that person's work has been redistributed to others, including you, in the office. Sam 
In this economy you're either working 24/7 (you), or barely at all (me). Perhaps you'd like to subcontract some of your workload ... then two people could live balanced lives.
Ben Franklin
What has happened is actually sad but what hasn't happened is that we haven't developed better ways to work with technology. The fact that we can move from reading an e-mail, to working in a spreadsheet, to editing a movie (essentially ''multitasking'') with the stroke of a couple keys inherently creates a problem. How efficient are we at managing the switching of gears? Dave
This has more to do with the Wall Street axiom that profitable is not good enough; we must have large growth. Blue collar workers may have a union to protect them, but white collar workers do not and are easy prey for managers looking to move up. Add to that that the American workforce is larger than it was before because of the addition of many more women, and the theoretical man of the past does not have that wife waiting at home -- so why hurry to get there. So I say greed has more to do with it than a lack of a jacket and tie. C Brooklyn
I would not shave and wear a tie ... but I would wear a suit and hose and high heels. I think the 9-to-8 day is soul killing and if I ruled the world I would put a stop to it immediately. I agree -- the problem is greed and growth based. Jeannie in Vermont
In order to survive we must expand union membership (to include service economy workers) and their protections and NOT join in to tear them down (yes, there are abuses). michael
Thank you for trying to give a little bit of voice to my ever-growing-gripe about the 9 a.m-until-forever workday syndrome that seems to especially have NYC in its death grip.
Luckily(?), I haven't had to fight with this since I was laid off last year but most folks I know who are stuck with an office gig usually have to fight just to get out by 7. It's funny -- my generation has gotten a bad rap about being a generation of entitlement, but I don't know a single person my age (late 20s) who doesn't have at least one job and doesn't have to hustle just to make rent. Pat S.
I am far from 20 and worked two jobs to make ends meet for about 10 years. What we lack now is union-style power. Not for individual contracts, but for workers' rights. Management will have you there 24/7 if they can get away with it. pep I am a surgery resident and thus think that a 12-hour day that doesn't start until 7 a.m. sounds heavenly! I routinely am at work at 5:30 in the morning and returning home at 9:30 at night. Not that my time at home is my own. I have cases to read for, presentations to prepare and phone calls from patients to answer. Jared A. Tomlinson, MD
It's what we all want apparently. The power, the scenario where ''one person can make a difference.'' In a weird and perverse way it's also ''wanting to give back'' so you can say to your friends ''hey, I contribute'' without spending your Saturday volunteering at the food bank. pwp nyc
I would be interested to know if this is a NYC and LA thing or if these hours are happening all over the country? For example, do workers in New Mexico keep hours like this or do they stop at 5 or 6 p.m. to enjoy the beautiful nature around their home? 6 Cohen As a New Mexican, I wish I had the chance to stop and enjoy the glorious mountains and vistas -- though occasionally I'll see them in the fading daylight of my rear-view mirror as I head home at anywhere between 6 to 8 p.m. Katina I'll state the obvious:
Especially in this economy, in which so many are concerned about losing their job, staying later and later without complaint or additional compensation is probably the easiest way to distinguish yourself and establish your bona fides as a harder worker than your colleagues.
And as the length of the workday becomes progressively longer, many of the employed are foregoing raises as well -- often for years.
Meanwhile, corporate America is seeing some of the greatest profits they've ever garnered. This economy has become an excuse for many companies to crack the proverbial whip and work people to the bone for less money, thus substantially increasing profits. Greed is the new American way.
Bill Randle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (68%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



335 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2257 words

HEADLINE: A Fee That Only Developers Could Love

BYLINE: By JANET MORRISSEY

 BODY:
REBECCA AND TRENT DUPAIX of Eagle Mountain, Utah, spent a year searching for their dream home. The couple, who have five children, considered 15 to 20 houses before finding ''the one.''
They were thrilled when they closed on a $227,000, rock-and-stucco home with five bedrooms and two and a half baths in March 2009.
But four months later, when a local television reporter was doing a story on housing taxes in their subdivision, the Dupaixs discovered that their sales contract included a ''resale fee'' that allows the developer to collect 1 percent of the sales price from the seller every time the property changes hands -- for the next 99 years.
Mrs. Dupaix, 34, says she and her husband had no clue about the fee when they closed on the house. ''Of course we were upset,'' she says. ''We didn't know about it, and our closer at the title company didn't know about it.'' 
Other buyers gutsy enough to venture into the battered housing market in the hope of scoring a bargain might be wise to check the fine print before popping open the Champagne and signing on the dotted line.
A growing number of developers and builders have been quietly slipping ''resale fee'' covenants into sales agreements of newly built homes in some subdivisions. In the Dupaix contract, the clause was in a separate 13-page document -- called the declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions -- that wasn't even included in the closing papers and did not require a signature.
The fee, sometimes called a capital recovery fee or private transfer fee, has been gaining popularity among companies that have been frantically searching for new ways to gain access to cash in the depressed housing market.
''Developers are desperate,'' says David Steffensen, a lawyer and a former developer in Salt Lake City. ''They're facing projects that are upside down'' because the property value has fallen below the loan balance and lenders are refusing to refinance. ''It's a ticking time bomb,'' he adds.
Freehold Capital Partners, a real estate financing firm founded by the Texas developer Joseph B. Alderman III, has been leading the charge. According to William White, Freehold's chief operating officer, the firm has signed up more than 5,000 developers who are adding the covenant to developments worth hundreds of billions of dollars that will be built out over the next decade in 43 states.
Many developers see the resale fee as a creative way to get new financing. They are hoping to one day use the trickle of cash from these fees as collateral for a loan, or to get cash up front if pools of the fees are packaged into securities to be bought and sold on Wall Street. Freehold has begun shopping the idea of securitizing the resale fees, much as subprime loans were packaged and sold to investors.
Someone selling a home for $500,000, for example, would have to pay the original developer $5,000. If the home sold again two years later for $750,000, the second seller would have to pony up $7,500 to the developer, and so on. Even if a home declines in value, the seller still must pay the 1 percent fee. Freehold gets a cut of the resale fee; if the fees are securitized, it retains a percentage of the cash generated from the securitization.
Freehold's principals and lawyers have been aggressive in sales pitches to developers, but have declined to give details on their clients, securitization efforts or the company itself. Freehold moved its corporate office from Round Rock, Tex., to New York this year as it stepped up efforts to securitize the resale fees.
Mr. White characterizes the resale fee as a win-win deal for the developer and the home buyer. The fees let developers spread out the cost of building the roads, utilities and other infrastructure across all homeowners in a subdivision, rather than just the initial buyers. As a result, he said, the developer can lower the initial price of a home to the first buyer.
For example, he says, a typical $250,000 home may be able to sell for about $5,000 less. ''The fee is a fair and equitable way to spread development costs, and results in lower costs to the average consumer,'' Mr. White says.
Ted Thieman, founder of the real estate developer Thieman Enterprises in Vandalia, Ohio, sees Freehold's securitization plan as the holy grail that will provide him with badly needed cash. He signed up with Freehold last year after lenders refused to provide financing for him to develop land in Dayton, Ohio.
''People are going bankrupt out here, and there's no cash flow in our developments anymore,'' he says. ''This is the only source that's available to us.''
Jeff Moseley, founder of Badger Creek Development in Brunswick, Ga., says he signed up with Freehold after watching his business tank with the economy. ''I can't sleep at night,'' he says, adding that he had laid off all 32 of his employees.
He is hoping Freehold's resale fee program will breathe new life into his business. ''I thought it was an intriguing and compelling story,'' says Mr. Moseley, who owns two development projects, encompassing about 220 lots.
Under his deal with Freehold, he will get about two-thirds of the revenue from the securitized fees while Freehold and other parties will get one-third.
Some developers are skeptical. Qualico, a Canadian company that owns Reytex Homes of Austin, Tex., turned down Freehold's sales pitch when it was buying land from a Freehold affiliate in Texas. Qualico wanted to use the land to build entry-level homes and didn't think the fee would fly with that market segment. First-time buyers are more likely than others to trade up and quickly sell a home, so the home often has little time to appreciate enough to offset the fee.
The resale fee ''has disaster written all over it,'' says Rick Akin, partner of the law firm Akin & Chardavoyne, which represented Qualico.
MR. ALDERMAN, 45, has a history in the real estate industry, dating back to 1990, that includes a few bumps in the road. In March 1994, he filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection for businesses that operated as Alderman Homes Inc. and First Quality Homes Inc., which had offices in Texas and Florida.
He has also held positions as either a senior executive or registered agent for seven other businesses, many of which the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts lists as ''not in good standing'' -- a designation applied when a company has either not paid franchise taxes or failed to file a tax report or both.
Mr. Alderman says that the businesses were deemed not in good standing because he or his accountant didn't file reports by the deadline and that no franchise fees are due. ''My credit is perfect,'' he adds.
Negotiations involving Mr. Alderman have sometimes been contentious. Mr. Akin says he had ''tortured negotiations'' with Mr. Alderman in 2006, when Qualico was trying to buy two parcels of land near Austin from Mr. Alderman's development company. Mr. Akin says Mr. Alderman haggled over issues including who would pay to extend sewer and water services to the land tracts, as well as who would be reimbursed for building parks and streets in the subdivisions through the city's Public Improvement District program.
''He wanted to be reimbursed for the money that we were going to spend for public improvements,'' says Mr. Akin.
He says Mr. Alderman also did not resolve issues like easements and back taxes that affected the legal claim to the title. When Mr. Akin decided to cancel the purchase agreement on the second tract of land over title issues, he says he had to sue Mr. Alderman's company to get back his client's $1 million deposit. ''In the over 25 years that I've been doing this, he was one of the most difficult sellers I've ever dealt with,'' says Mr. Akin.
The dispute was settled out of court. Mr. Alderman says Qualico wanted to back out of both land purchases, but was allowed out of only one. He says the $1 million deposit wound up being applied to the first tract's purchase. ''If Mr. Akin believes that is hard negotiating, then so be it,'' he says.
A COALITION of real estate trade groups, including the National Association of Realtors, the American Land Title Association and the Center for Responsible Lending, opposes resale fees and is lobbying federal and state authorities to ban them.
''The idea that someone who has no ownership stake or interest can continue to collect revenue off of a property that they may have built up to 99 years ago exploits an already complex transaction and doesn't pass the smell test,'' says Justin Ailes, director of government affairs at the land title association. The fee could hurt real estate values in the future if buyers are reluctant to purchase properties that have a 1 percent fee attached.
The coalition wrote to the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and to the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Federal Trade Commission and others, urging them to bar the fees or use the consumer protection agency -- to be created by the financial overhaul -- to fight them.
Often, the fee is within dozens or hundreds of pages of documents, and for some buyers, like the Dupaixs, it may be in a separate declaration that does not require a signature. Buyers may not be aware of the fee until the closing -- or, worse, when they try to sell the home years later and the fee shows up in the title search, Mr. Ailes says. If the seller won't pay the fee, he says, a lien is slapped on the property.
''I am yet to find an owner that reads 300 or 400 pages'' at closing time, says Charlie Orden, a broker and owner of the realty office Re/Max Town Centre in Orlando. And even if they do see it at closing, few buyers are going to walk away from a home at that point. He says he has started looking for the clause to warn potential clients well in advance.
Opponents have made some headway. The Department of Housing and Urban Development recently issued a letter indicating that the fees violated its regulations and that the agency would not insure mortgages on properties that included them.
The Federal Housing Finance Agency is considering a proposal to prohibit the transfer fees on all mortgages financed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks. And 17 states have either banned or placed conditions on the practice.
Some bankers say Freehold will have a tough time selling the idea to Wall Street. The uncertain economy and housing market have made it next to impossible to predict when and how often a home will sell, or where home prices are headed -- information that is needed to estimate cash flows to value the securities.
And some worry that an all-out ban of resale fees by states or the federal government could make the securitized paper worthless.
Dave Ledford, a senior vice president at the National Association of Home Builders, says he's not sure Freehold can deliver on its big promises. ''It's almost in the category of 'too good to be true,' '' Mr. Ledford says.
Mr. White dismisses the criticism as sour grapes. He contends that Realtors oppose the fee because homebuyers might pressure them to lower their commissions to offset it. ''Apparently 6 percent to a Realtor is justified, yet 1 percent to pay for roads and utilities isn't,'' Mr. White says. He says he believes title companies are worried that they might face legal claims if they miss the fee during a search.
As for bundling the future cash flow into securities, Mr. White sees little risk. The fee represents ''a stable passive income stream,'' he says, that will be generated whether home prices go up or down. Even if the federal government or other states ban the fees, the ban would most likely apply only to future developments, not existing ones, he says.
Mr. White says his firm encourages full disclosure of the fees. However, he was unwilling to disclose the names of the developers and residential developments that currently charge the fees.
In fact, Freehold was the financing company behind the fee in the Dupaix contract. Even the home builder, Prestige Homes, wasn't aware of the fee, and demanded that the developer, Development Associates Inc., remove the clause from the paperwork, says Michael Cameron, the real estate agent who handled the sale for Prestige.
Mr. Cameron says Development Associates amended the ''covenants, conditions and restrictions'' document without the knowledge of the builder or buyer, and didn't present the amended document at closing. He says Prestige pulled out of the subdivision after the incident. ''It's not good for the buyers, it's not good for our reputation, and quite honestly, we thought it was unethical,'' he says.
Nate Shipp, owner of Development Associates, says he signed up with Freehold on the condition that Freehold securitize income from the fees and then pass on some of that revenue to his company so it could lower the price for buyers. But so far, Mr. Shipp says, he has not received any money from the arrangement.
He says Freehold insisted that he add the resale covenant into the sales documents on all lots in his subdivision to qualify for its program. Because Mr. Shipp hadn't received cash from a securitization, he has been deleting the clause from the sales contract as each home is sold. He says the fees on the Dupaix property and about 11 others were accidentally left in. ''It was an honest mistake,'' he says.
AS for Mrs. Dupaix, she says a resale fee wouldn't necessarily turn her off of a home if the price were right.
If she had known of the fee in advance, she says, ''we would have negotiated to get the price lower.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ted Thieman is among developers seeking revenue from a fee paid every time a house is resold. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL HOUGHTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
 Justin Ailes of the American Land Title Association, with the Congressional aide Kelly A. Dixon, says that the idea of charging a 1 percent resale fee on homes ''doesn't pass the smell test.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT SERVICES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LAND TITLE ASSOCIATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



336 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Suggests Reunions With South

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- In a surprise gesture of reconciliation that could ease tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula, North Korea proposed to South Korea on Saturday that they arrange reunions of families separated by a war six decades ago.
Family reunions have usually been proposed by the South, not the North. The North's initiative showed how the humanitarian program is used as a chip in the complex diplomacy surrounding the peninsula. 
But the South has refused to resume aid shipments or six-nation talks on ending North Korea's nuclear weapons development before North Korea apologizes for the sinking of a South Korean warship in March, which killed 46 sailors. The North has denied involvement in the sinking, but the South has insisted on the North making gestures to mollify South Koreans.
The proposal came a day before Stephen W. Bosworth, Washington's top envoy on North Korea, was to arrive in Seoul in the first leg of a regional trip aimed at resuming the nuclear talks.
South Korea was ''favorably'' reviewing the offer for immediate discussions of family reunions so the reunions could take place in North Korea's Diamond Mountain resort around the Sept. 22 Chuseok fall-harvest holiday, a government statement said.
About 20,000 Koreans have been temporarily reunited since the two Koreas held their first summit meeting in 2000. The last such reunions were a year ago, and thousands of older South Koreans wait for a chance to meet relatives not seen for 60 years.
The scenes of teary people hugging long-lost parents and children have previously helped sway South Korean opinion in favor of engaging the North. Meanwhile, North Korea has used the reunions to win economic concessions from the South.
Although the new proposal is a sharp departure from the North's recent invectives against South Korea, it remains unclear whether the South considers it enough to change a stance hardened by the warship's sinking.
''We wonder about the North's motive behind this unexpected proposal, but whatever it might be, we must say we welcome the offer,'' Ahn Hyoung-hwan, a governing party spokesman in Seoul, told reporters. Opposition parties also welcomed the initiative.
China, the North's main ally and the leader of the six-nation nuclear talks, urged both Koreas to shift from confrontation to dialogue by rejoining the talks. Although Washington stood by the South, a crucial Asian ally, in the standoff over the ship sinking, and bowed to keep sanctions on the North, it is also looking for ways to bring North Korea back to the talks, a central part of its global nonproliferation efforts.
''We believe it would be critical for there to be some element of reconciliation between the North and South for any process to move forward,'' Kurt M. Campbell, a United States assistant secretary of state, said Thursday.
The six-nation talks were last held in December 2008. South Korean officials have voiced a deep skepticism of the talks. Without a concrete North Korean commitment to denuclearization, any such talks would simply give North Korea a tool to weaken an international resolve to enforce sanctions on the North while buying time to perfect its nuclear arsenal, they said.
After making various threats, North Korea has recently begun offering conciliatory gestures. Last month, it freed an imprisoned American during former President Jimmy Carter's diplomatic trip to Pyongyang. It also released a seven-man crew of a South Korean fishing boat seized a month ago. The North's proposal for reunions came as the South was considering how much aid it should provide for North Koreans devastated by floods.
In an interview with Russia 24-TV on Friday during a visit to Russia, President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea offered to build a second joint industrial park in North Korea if the North changed its policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); RESORTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); MOUNTAINS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



337 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: The 38th Parallel

BYLINE: By JACOB HEILBRUNN. 
Jacob Heilbrunn is a senior editor at The National Interest.

 BODY:
THE KOREAN WAR
A History
By Bruce Cumings
Illustrated. 288 pp. A Modern Library Chronicles Book/The Modern Library. $24
Bruce Cumings is a historian at the University of Chicago; the author of several books, including a doorstop two-volume history entitled ''The Origins of the Korean War''; and a gifted controversialist. He distills his work in his new primer, ''The Korean War,'' which is dedicated to the memory of the South Korean president Kim Dae-jung, who promoted a ''sunshine policy'' with the North.
Cumings has long championed a revisionist interpretation of the origins of the Korean War. He dismisses as a fairy tale the notion that a valiant America swooped in to rescue a Little Red Riding Hood menaced by malevolent Communists. Instead, Cumings believes that then, just as now, American leaders and the Western media have consistently blackened North Korea's reputation rather than seeking a true and lasting peace. 
Sound improbable? Well, yes. But Cumings has done a lot of research over the years, has a superb grasp of his material and is never less than stimulating. As he portrays it, America became mired in a civil war between the North, whose leader Kim Il-sung, had gallantly fought against the Japanese in Manchuria starting in 1932, and the South, whose leadership consisted largely of collaborators with the Japanese occupation. According to Cumings, the North Koreans ''essentially saw the war in 1950 as a way to settle the hash of the top command of the South Korean Army, nearly all of whom had served the Japanese.'' Cumings suggests that ''a civil conflict purely among Koreans might have resolved the extraordinary tensions generated by colonialism, national division and foreign intervention'' -- a resolution that would almost surely have ended with mass murder and a ruthless totalitarian state stretching across all of Korea.
It's hardly surprising that Truman administration cold-war liberals, led by Secretary of State Dean Acheson, took a different view of South Korea's fate. Eastern Europe had already fallen to the Soviets. Berlin barely survived a Soviet blockade. Now North Korea had invaded the South. Mao and Stalin recklessly gave Kim Il-sung the green light. Cumings, though, mourns the fact that the Korean War prompted Truman to establish a ''far-flung American base structure abroad and a national security state at home, as defense spending nearly quadrupled in the last six months of 1950, and turned the United States into the policeman of the world.''
Policeman or not, the war itself was very rough going and quickly became a political burden for Truman. Cumings is excellent at describing the war itself. His depictions of the American bombing campaign, which was every bit as devastating as the assault on German cities during World War II, and of atrocities by all sides make for powerful reading.
These insights are undermined by his penchant for offering excuses about the nature of the North Korean regime. For example, Cumings dismisses the idea that North Korea is a Stalinist state. He claims that ''there is no evidence in the North Korean experience of the mass violence against whole classes of people or the wholesale 'purge' that so clearly characterized Stalinism.'' The large-scale famine of the late 1990s, the cult of personality surrounding the Dear Leader Kim Jong-il and, not least, a gulag currently filled with innocents would seem more than enough to qualify the wasteland that is North Korea for the label Stalinist. Yet Cumings concludes that ''in the aftermath of war two Korean states competed toe-to-toe in economic development, turning both of them into modern industrial nations.'' Like the Hermit Kingdom itself, Cumings's book is best approached with a mixture of curiosity and caution.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ASSOCIATED PRESS (1950) ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WRITERS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (85%); WORLD WAR II (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); LIBERALISM (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%)

TITLE: Korean War, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



338 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Melissa Mangano, Brian Davidson

BYLINE: By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

 BODY:
Melissa Catherine Mangano and Brian Christopher Davidson were married Saturday evening at the Hotel Monaco in Alexandria, Va. Maureen Burke, a Universal Brotherhood minister, officiated.
The bride, 37, works in Fairfax City, Va., as a regional manager for Virginia, Washington and Maryland with Bright Horizons Family Solutions, an operator of child-care centers. She is on the board of two advocacy groups: the Virginia Association of Early Childhood Education and the Northern Virginia Association for the Education of Young Children. She graduated from Bucknell and received a master's in early childhood education from the University of Pennsylvania.
She is the daughter of Diane Mangano-Cohen of Westport, Conn., and the late Vincent J. Mangano 3rd, and is the stepdaughter of William A. Cohen. The bride's mother, who retired as an interior designer in Westport, is on the board of the Jewish Home for the Elderly in Fairfield, Conn. The bride's father was a lawyer with the General Reinsurance Corporation in Greenwich, Conn. Her stepfather, who is retired, worked in Stamford, Conn., as the senior vice president for marketing strategy in the brand and advertising division of Taylor Nelson Sofres, a London market research company. 
The bridegroom, also 37, is a computer systems administrator at George Mason University in Fairfax City, from which he received two bachelor's degrees, one in piano in 2003 and another this year in mathematics.
He is the son of Judy Davidson and Richard Davidson of Reston, Va. The bridegroom's mother is an instructional assistant in math and English at Forest Edge Elementary School there. His father retired as a civil engineer for the Army Corps of Engineers in Washington.
The couple were matched online in September 2008. Mr. Davidson became fed up with traditional dating when one of the women he was seeing fell asleep during a Mahler symphony at the Kennedy Center.
''I really wanted to meet someone to really share that enjoyment with me,'' said Mr. Davidson, who had made a New Year's resolution to see at least one classical music concert a month.
Ms. Mangano's online profile, in which she seemed to express an interest in classical music, caught his eye. But his timing was a little off.
She was disheartened with online dating, which she had been doing intermittently since 2003, and she was about to head off on a two-week Mediterranean cruise.
Ms. Mangano explained, ''I just couldn't find anyone.'' And so she decided to take a break from online dating and refocused on being single.
In January, before her online dating membership expired, she took one last look through her matches. ''I saw Brian,'' she said, and hurried off an apologetic e-mail. ''There was this adorable man. I thought he was snapped up.''
Mr. Davidson got back to her in a day or so, inviting her to a Kennedy Center concert that featured Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 3.
''She really enjoyed the concert,'' said Mr. Robinson, who mentioned to her that he had been practicing the work on his own. And soon he learned that not only was Ms. Mangano fully attentive during that same performance of Mahler that he had attended with his fast-asleep date, but Ms. Mangano, an alto, had also appeared onstage that night at the Kennedy Center as part of the Master Chorale of Washington, to sing during the final movement. ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (89%); ENGINEERING (87%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (87%); MUSIC (86%); DATING SERVICES (86%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (85%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); CHILD CARE (72%); MATHEMATICS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); STEPPARENTS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); COMPANY STRATEGY (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); MARKETING STRATEGY (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); PARAEDUCATORS (64%); ARMIES (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL REINSURANCE CORP (69%); BRIGHT HORIZONS FAMILY SOLUTIONS INC (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

TICKER: BFAM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); NAICS624410 CHILD DAY CARE SERVICES (58%); SIC8351 CHILD DAY CARE SERVICES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010



339 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: We're No. 1(1)!

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I want to share a couple of articles I recently came across that, I believe, speak to the core of what ails America today but is too little discussed. The first was in Newsweek under the ironic headline ''We're No. 11!'' The piece, by Michael Hirsh, went on to say: ''Has the United States lost its oomph as a superpower? Even President Obama isn't immune from the gloom. 'Americans won't settle for No. 2!' Obama shouted at one political rally in early August. How about No. 11? That's where the U.S.A. ranks in Newsweek's list of the 100 best countries in the world, not even in the top 10.''
The second piece, which could have been called ''Why We're No. 11,'' was by the Washington Post economics columnist Robert Samuelson. Why, he asked, have we spent so much money on school reform in America and have so little to show for it in terms of scalable solutions that produce better student test scores? Maybe, he answered, it is not just because of bad teachers, weak principals or selfish unions. 
''The larger cause of failure is almost unmentionable: shrunken student motivation,'' wrote Samuelson. ''Students, after all, have to do the work. If they aren't motivated, even capable teachers may fail. Motivation comes from many sources: curiosity and ambition; parental expectations; the desire to get into a 'good' college; inspiring or intimidating teachers; peer pressure. The unstated assumption of much school 'reform' is that if students aren't motivated, it's mainly the fault of schools and teachers.'' Wrong, he said. ''Motivation is weak because more students (of all races and economic classes, let it be added) don't like school, don't work hard and don't do well. In a 2008 survey of public high school teachers, 21 percent judged student absenteeism a serious problem; 29 percent cited 'student apathy.' ''
There is a lot to Samuelson's point -- and it is a microcosm of a larger problem we have not faced honestly as we have dug out of this recession: We had a values breakdown -- a national epidemic of get-rich-quickism and something-for-nothingism. Wall Street may have been dealing the dope, but our lawmakers encouraged it. And far too many of us were happy to buy the dot-com and subprime crack for quick prosperity highs.
Ask yourself: What made our Greatest Generation great? First, the problems they faced were huge, merciless and inescapable: the Depression, Nazism and Soviet Communism. Second, the Greatest Generation's leaders were never afraid to ask Americans to sacrifice. Third, that generation was ready to sacrifice, and pull together, for the good of the country. And fourth, because they were ready to do hard things, they earned global leadership the only way you can, by saying: ''Follow me.''
Contrast that with the Baby Boomer Generation. Our big problems are unfolding incrementally -- the decline in U.S. education, competitiveness and infrastructure, as well as oil addiction and climate change. Our generation's leaders never dare utter the word ''sacrifice.'' All solutions must be painless. Which drug would you like? A stimulus from Democrats or a tax cut from Republicans? A national energy policy? Too hard. For a decade we sent our best minds not to make computer chips in Silicon Valley but to make poker chips on Wall Street, while telling ourselves we could have the American dream -- a home -- without saving and investing, for nothing down and nothing to pay for two years. Our leadership message to the world (except for our brave soldiers): ''After you.''
So much of today's debate between the two parties, notes David Rothkopf, a Carnegie Endowment visiting scholar, ''is about assigning blame rather than assuming responsibility. It's a contest to see who can give away more at precisely the time they should be asking more of the American people.''
Rothkopf and I agreed that we would get excited about U.S. politics when our national debate is between Democrats and Republicans who start by acknowledging that we can't cut deficits without both tax increases and spending cuts -- and then debate which ones and when -- who acknowledge that we can't compete unless we demand more of our students -- and then debate longer school days versus school years -- who acknowledge that bad parents who don't read to their kids and do indulge them with video games are as responsible for poor test scores as bad teachers -- and debate what to do about that.
Who will tell the people? China and India have been catching up to America not only via cheap labor and currencies. They are catching us because they now have free markets like we do, education like we do, access to capital and technology like we do, but, most importantly, values like our Greatest Generation had. That is, a willingness to postpone gratification, invest for the future, work harder than the next guy and hold their kids to the highest expectations.
In a flat world where everyone has access to everything, values matter more than ever. Right now the Hindus and Confucians have more Protestant ethics than we do, and as long as that is the case we'll be No. 11!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); RANKINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); ACADEMIC TESTING (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); EDUCATION REFORM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); WRITERS (68%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



340 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Watching the Catwalk, and Clicking 'Add to Cart'

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
It used to be that designers showed clothes at Fashion Week to court the influential few, mainly the buyers and fashion editors who determined what styles would be hot in retail stores a season away.
But now they are starting to sidestep the middleman. Web technology, and a desire to entice luxury shoppers who are suddenly spending again, are spurring designers to fling open the tent flaps to their runway shows and appeal directly to shoppers.
Call it public-access high fashion.
In this fall's women's runway shows, which started Thursday with New York Fashion Week and continue throughout the next month in London, Paris and Milan, shoppers at their keyboards will have a front-row seat. 
Gucci will allow anyone to sign up to watch its show online, and will let viewers share live Webcam videos as though they were playing with YouTube. Alexander Wang is projecting video of its show on a ''moving billboard'' in Manhattan, and Betsey Johnson is showing live Web versions of the show and the backstage frenzy before it.
And in the most aggressive outreach, Burberry, the British design house, will not only stream its women's runway show live from London, but also will allow anyone with a computer and a credit card to order the merchandise as models strut in it.
''It's giving the consumer even more inside access than the buyer in the front row,'' said James Gardner, founder and chief executive of Createthe Group, which is working on the runway live streams for Marc Jacobs and Burberry. ''They're able to put the product in their shopping bag, pay with their credit card and check out before the buyer is even finished watching the show and goes to the showroom the next day.''
Burberry's strategy represents a huge change from the past, when a literal golden ticket was the only way to see its show. The anointed -- buyers from Barneys, editors from Vogue, actresses like Claire Danes -- were sent an engraved antique brass entry card. This time, in addition to the online access, 1,500 people will be invited to Burberry stores worldwide, where they will watch the show on high-definition screens and be able to order merchandise immediately via an iPad app.
''Technology is the enabler,'' said Christopher Bailey, chief creative officer at Burberry. ''This gives them an opportunity to feel that energy and feel the attitude of what you're working on. I find it incredibly liberating.''
In the last few years, fashion has gradually opened itself up to ordinary shoppers. Bloggers have sidled into shows alongside fashion editors, the TV show ''Project Runway'' has made design seem doable, and Fashion's Night Out has brought designers into stores to meet shoppers.
But never before have Fashion Week designers so aggressively appealed directly to consumers with their shows, in large part because technology makes it so easy but also because economic conditions make this round of runway shows so important.
The luxury shoppers that Fashion Week designers go after all but disappeared during the recession, not only because rich consumers' investments plummeted but also because it was unseemly to buy expensive items in a sober time.
Now, though, they appear to be buying again. Hermes International said last month that its profit rose 55.2 percent in the first half compared with a year earlier. Tiffany & Companysaid its second-quarter profit rose 19 percent, and the luxury conglomerate LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton said in July that first-half profit rose 53 percent.
''They've been coming back,'' said Dana L. Telsey, chief executive and chief research officer of the stock-research firm Telsey Advisory Group. But, she said, there are ''concerns over what companies will face in the second half of 2010.''
With that air of uncertainty, this season's runway shows -- when designers unveil their clothes for the following season, editors pick out trends and buyers place orders -- is under particular scrutiny. If the shows succeed, Ms. Telsey said, they can ''help create a halo effect of continuing the upward momentum.''
So designers, who had avoided technology to the point of eschewing e-commerce, are using it to ride today's shopping wave. Marc Jacobs, Oscar de la Renta and more than 40 other designers are streaming live video of the New York show on their Web sites and Facebook pages and on fashion roundup sites like Style.com.
Still, there are risks with the tech-forward approaches. Most significantly, the designers could alienate professional buyers -- who still wield huge power with retailers -- especially when clothes are made available for immediate purchase online, as with Burberry.
''The economic challenge has added new focus to this, and technology and digital has almost become the most important strategic priority in these companies,'' said Mr. Gardner of Createthe Group. ''The brands are seeing this really resonates with the consumer, and we see huge spikes in traffic'' when the shows are live-streamed.
Even so, he said, professional buyers could take cues from the online shoppers. ''If you have lots of people preordering certain product,'' he said, ''it can be a very helpful way to let the buyer and brand know what's popular.''
Some designers are trying to sandwich tradition and technology. Diane von Furstenberg will show her spring 2011 collection on Sunday, and the company is live streaming it to a select group of bloggers at her store-turned-lounge, which is open to the public for most of the weekend. But the technology in the lounge -- touch screens mounted on the wall, Web-enabled printers and PCs -- will feature the fall and resort wear already in stores.
''The shows have always been for the trade,'' said Paula Sutter, president of the company. ''It's important to sell what's in the store.''
Burberry's approach has required an overhaul of the company's supply chain, from when yarns are dyed to when leather is procured. The company is promising customers who order the runway items -- outerwear, makeup and accessories -- that they will receive them within seven weeks, versus the normal four- to six-month lag between the runway and the rack.
''It's one thing when you're talking to the industry that's used to a six-month turnabout,'' said Mr. Bailey of Burberry. ''It's very different when you're talking to a direct customer.''
In catering to customers, though, Burberry and other design houses need to be careful not to lose their appeal by seeming common, said Jean-Noel Kapferer, a luxury-marketing consultant and professor at the business school HEC Paris.
''The Internet helps build the awareness and desire by letting so many people peep into the catwalk,'' Mr. Kapferer said in an e-mail. But ''if too many people can buy it,'' he said, ''the brand loses its exclusivity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Online viewers can buy items in some Fashion Week shows, while shoppers in Manhattan, right, can comb through collections on touch screens. (A1)
Diane von Furstenberg is featuring its collections on touch screens in its store in Manhattan.
 Elisa Sednaoui, a model, at a Diane von Furstenberg event. Designers are increasingly mingling with everyday consumers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (92%); FASHION & APPAREL (91%); FASHION SHOWS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FILM (88%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); STREAMING MEDIA (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: BURBERRY GROUP PLC (85%)

TICKER: BRBY (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (73%); MARC JACOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



341 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: As Power Broker Seeks to Lead, Some Ask if He's the Force That Japan Needs

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Shadow shogun, scandal-tainted party boss, insider turned rebel, a leader who can say no to Washington -- Ichiro Ozawa has been called many things in his four decades in politics.
Now, as Mr. Ozawa, the former head of Japan's governing Democratic Party and its widely acknowledged power broker, begins what might be the final maneuver in a turbulent and often chameleon-like career, he is proving as powerful and divisive a figure as ever.
Last week, Mr. Ozawa, 68, announced that he would challenge the current prime minister, Naoto Kan, to become the party's president, and thus prime minister. Mr. Ozawa vowed to restore the party to its original promises of building a more accountable political system capable of leading Japan out of its current drift.
''Last year's election victory was about creating politics run by elected politicians,'' Mr. Ozawa said in announcing his bid. ''If this attempt should fail, full-fledged democracy will never take root in Japan.'' 
The internal party vote, to be held on Tuesday, now appears too close to call, with some predicting that it could end up splitting the party. Mr. Ozawa's bid was greeted with surprise and even incredulity by many in Japan, where he has been portrayed in the major news media as a corrupt, Rasputin-like figure.
But as always, there is another side to Mr. Ozawa. He is widely credited with using his considerable, if perhaps unsavory, political skills to engineer the Democrats' landslide election victory last year, which ended more than a half-century of virtual one-party leadership by the Liberal Democrats and seemed to usher in an era of more competitive democracy.
But the Democrats' drive to open up Japan's political system has stalled, prompting a question among Japan's feisty weekly magazines, Internet chat rooms and even dinner party conversations that can seem to carry the tinge of subversion in this conformist country: Is Mr. Ozawa the forceful and capable leader so hungrily sought by citizens of this ailing economic giant, which has suffered all too many colorless, short-lived and altogether forgettable prime ministers?
''Ozawa is the person Japan's vested interests would least like to see become prime minister,'' said Kensuke Watanabe, the author of two political biographies of Mr. Ozawa. ''That is because they fear him the most.''
Public opinion appears split, perhaps along generational lines. Recent polls in major newspapers show that voters support Mr. Kan by a ratio of four to one, but online questionnaires at news sites, which may reach younger people, show Mr. Ozawa ahead by the same ratio.
Political experts are also divided. An old-school backroom operator whose face seems frozen in a perpetual frown, Mr. Ozawa lacks the charisma of Japan's last popular prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, who stepped down four years ago. But at the same time, Mr. Ozawa has repeatedly proved that he is as much a master of the complex and arcane world of Japanese politics as he is of his favorite pastime: go, the ancient Asian game of strategy.
He has also shown a decisiveness that Japan's recent leaders have lacked. In a party that has all too often seemed rudderless, he has repeatedly interceded on difficult decisions, like whether to abolish highway tolls or the gasoline tax.
''Japan must have a system where politicians take responsibility and make policy decisions,'' he said when he announced his candidacy.
In a debate with Mr. Kan this month, Mr. Ozawa blamed the party's lack of direction for the Democrats' poor showing in midterm elections two months ago. He also accused Mr. Kan of being under the thumb of the nation's elite central ministries, which have long run Japan and whose powers the Democrats had vowed to curtail.
Mr. Kan, a former civic activist who has excluded Mr. Ozawa and allies from his three-month-old government, said Japan must move beyond the machine-style politics represented by Mr. Ozawa, who was forced to step down as party secretary general in June partly because of a series of political financing scandals.
''Japan must escape from its old political ways,'' Mr. Kan said.
Indeed, this is another question that has hounded Mr. Ozawa: is he a holdout from Japan's political past or a harbinger of its political future?
A second-generation lawmaker from the northern rice-growing region of Iwate, Mr. Ozawa was a rising star in the Liberal Democratic Party, or L.D.P., and a protege of party bosses like Kakuei Tanaka, Japan's original shadow shogun. Then, in 1993, after the party refused to enact electoral reforms that he championed, Mr. Ozawa and his allies bolted, helping create a brief-lived opposition government.
After that coalition unraveled, Mr. Ozawa spent the next two decades trying to build a viable alternative party. Yet he achieved this by borrowing liberally from the Liberal Democrats' own playbook. During last year's election, he pried away formerly diehard L.D.P. supporters like doctors and farmers with promises of generous handouts. Mr. Ozawa has also shared the L.D.P.'s penchant for creating factions, surrounding himself with a group of some 150 mostly novice Democratic lawmakers who have been dubbed ''Ozawa's children.''
Such contradictions have helped make Mr. Ozawa an enigmatic figure, even among Japanese. His utterances range from the tortuously convoluted to the gruffly ineloquent. Fellow Democrats call him gifted and ambitious, but with a nasty tendency to steamroll even supporters who disagree with him.
''He is a fearsome politician who makes the bureaucrats quake in their boots,'' said Kozo Watanabe, a senior Democratic lawmaker. ''But he also scares away his friends.''
Critics say this stubborn ambition may also lie behind his decision to challenge Mr. Kan at a time when the public seems likely to frown on another change at the top, having gone through six prime ministers in four years. Supporters say Mr. Ozawa may have decided that this was his last chance, given his declining popularity and questions about his health after having heart problems several years ago. Mr. Ozawa has referred to his candidacy as ''my last service.''
If he wins, one question will be how he handles Tokyo's crucial security relationship with Washington, its longtime protector. He has called for Japan to become a ''normal nation'' that can speak its mind to the United States and also take a more assertive role overseas.
However, those who know Mr. Ozawa say his real goal is to challenge not Washington but the powerful bureaucrats at the central ministries. This has led to bitter clashes with Japan's permanent government, including the public prosecutors, who have pursued seemingly unending investigations into Mr. Ozawa's political finances in recent years.
While Mr. Ozawa has promised to cooperate with prosecutors if he becomes prime minister, he has also criticized them as being politically motivated. The fact that prosecutors have never charged Mr. Ozawa with a crime, and that they have also failed to pursue leading Liberal Democratic lawmakers who have also been implicated in campaign finance scandals, has led many Japanese to agree with him.
Ultimately, political experts say, the biggest concern about Mr. Ozawa is that he keeps his cards so close to his chest that it is not clear what he really stands for, beyond broad pledges of political change. This leads some to worry that if he does become prime minister, he will just end up remaking the Democrats in the image of a traditional, Liberal Democrat-style political machine.
''He will go down in history as the hero who destroyed the L.D.P.,'' said Jiro Yamaguchi, a professor of politics at Hokkaido University who has worked with Mr. Ozawa. ''But will he just try to replace it with new one-party rule by the Democratic Party?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ichiro Ozawa, who is challenging the prime minister for party leadership, is a divisive figure with four decades in politics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISSEI KATO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SCANDALS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CHAT ROOMS (63%); WRITERS (62%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



342 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-CHART; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: States of Conflict: An Update

BYLINE: By MICHAEL E. O'HANLON, IAN LIVINGSTON and HEATHER MESSERA. 
MICHAEL E. O'HANLON, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, and IAN LIVINGSTON and HEATHER MESSERA, researchers at Brookings

 BODY:
IT has been a tough summer on America's battlefields and those of its key allies, what with political wrangling in Baghdad, violence in Afghanistan and floods in Pakistan. President Obama received a fair dose of criticism for his Aug. 31 Oval Office speech marking the end of combat operations in Iraq, but under the circumstances it was practically impossible to convey a truly uplifting message. 
The president did have good news to report from Iraq -- a major reduction in the American military presence, which probably matters more than the somewhat arbitrary end of the combat mission. That said, violence in Iraq increased somewhat this summer, with insurgents aiming especially at the Iraqi police. Even more worrisome has been the continued deadlock among Iraq's main political parties as they seek to form a new coalition government based on the results of the March 7 parliamentary elections. Iraq is improved, and remains hopeful, but the current moment is still fraught.
Last month, Pakistan suffered through one of the world's greatest natural calamities in a decade. To date, the number of reported dead (fewer than 2,000) appears to be modest, but the number of displaced (several million) is huge. The floods have set back Pakistan's economic development as well as its military campaign against insurgents. The United States, however, may have an opportunity to repair its reputation among Pakistanis if it can continue to provide effective emergency assistance.
Afghanistan may be the one place where the situation on the ground is actually slightly better than is commonly assumed. Make no mistake, the Afghan government and its NATO-led foreign partners under the command of Gen. David Petraeus are not yet winning the war. But a more rigorous approach to training the Afghan Army, troop reinforcements recommended by Gen. Stanley McChrystal and approved by President Obama last fall and Afghan determination not to allow the Taliban to rule the land are hopeful signs. For example, according to midsummer estimates of security conditions in Afghanistan, within the 124 key districts where the International Security Assistance Force is focusing its efforts (about one-third of the country), deterioration occurred in seven, but progress occurred in 17.
-- MICHAEL E. O'HANLON, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, and IAN LIVINGSTON and HEATHER MESSERA, researchers at Brookings

GRAPHIC: CHART (CHART BY AMY UNIKEWICZ OF JELLYFEVER GRAPHIC DESIGN IN SOUTH NORWALK, CONN.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLICE FORCES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); DAVID PETRAEUS (57%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (57%); IAN LIVINGSTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



343 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Time for the This Big Dog to Bite Back

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
NO, he can't. President Obama can't reverse the unemployment numbers by Election Day. He can't get even a modest new stimulus bill past the Party of No, and even if he could, there would be few jobs to show for it until (maybe) 2011. Nor can he rewrite the history of his administration. Its signal accomplishments to date are an initial stimulus package that was overrun by the calamity at hand and a marathon health care battle as yet better known for its unseemly orgy of backroom wrangling than its concrete results. While that brawl raged, the White House seemed indifferent to the mounting number of Americans being tossed onto the Great Recession scrapheap.
And so the odds that Obama's party will survive the midterms seem less than Indiana Jones's in the Temple of Doom -- as we are reminded hourly by the Beltway herd flogging the latest polls. The Democrats are facing a ''historic'' rout, an earthquake, a tidal wave -- well, you know the drill. End of story. 
Unless it's not. On Labor Day, the fighting Obama abruptly re-emerged, a far cry from the man whose Oval Office address on Iraq days earlier was about as persuasive as a hostage video. Speaking to workers in Milwaukee, the president finally started giving voice to the anger of America's battered middle class. And he even let loose with a little anger of his own. The unspecified ''powerful interests'' aligned against him, he said, ''talk about me like a dog.''
That inelegant line -- ''not in my prepared remarks,'' Obama explained -- landed because it was true and because he said it with a grin. Americans like their warriors happy, not petulant (cf, ''You're likable enough, Hillary'').
For a guy facing a tidal wave, the president was so ebullient, you had to wonder if he knew something we didn't. Maybe he simply read the unabridged poll numbers rather than the CliffsNotes summaries of cable news. Those numbers are hardly as monochromatic as advertised. Obama's approval rating, for months a consistent (not imploding) 45-ish percent, still makes him arguably America's most popular national politician. The polls also continue to show that, while both political parties are despised, Democrats are slightly less despised than Republicans. In The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, for instance, 36 percent of those surveyed rate the Democrats positively, compared with the G.O.P.'s 30 percent. It's only when the November horse-race matchup is limited to ''likely voters'' that the tidal wave rolls in, giving the Republicans a roughly 10-point lead.
That spread is the Democrats' dread ''enthusiasm gap.'' And since that gap can't be bridged in two months by new government programs or divine intervention for the nearly one in six Americans who are un- or underemployed, what could give the Democrats even a slender reed of hope? If there's any plausible answer, it can be drawn from the single poll finding that is most devastating for Obama, the question (as worded by The Washington Post/ABC News) of whether ''he understands the problems of people like you.'' There his numbers really have imploded. When he arrived in office, 72 percent answered Yes and 24 percent No. As of last week, Yes had fallen to 50 and No had doubled to 48.
That a former community organizer and insurgent presidential candidate from a rocky middle-class background could be branded an out-of-touch elitist is not entirely the fault of his critics. Obama has perhaps never recovered from handing his administration's plum economic jobs to Robert Rubin proteges with dirty hands from the bubble -- Lawrence Summers, a deregulation advocate from the Clinton administration, and Timothy Geithner, an indulgent regulator at the New York Fed. Their presence has helped Obama's more unscrupulous adversaries get away with the lie that his White House, not President Bush's, created TARP. Indeed, such is the Obama administration's identification with the tarnished Wall Street culture that even Michael Bloomberg mistakenly identified Geithner, a longtime public servant who never worked at an investment bank, as a Goldman Sachs alumnus at a public event in New York last month.
The White House's not-on-C-Span deal-making with the health care industry behemoths only cemented the administration's corporatist image, as did Obama's meandering path to what still looks like a loophole-ridden compromise on financial regulatory reform. This is why even many Democrats have become lukewarm in their conviction that their president ''understands the problems of people like you.''
For Obama to make Americans believe he does understand their problems and close the enthusiasm gap, he cannot merely make changes of campaign style. Sporadic photo ops in shirtsleeves or factory settings persuade no one; a few terrific speeches can't always ride to the rescue. Nor would there be much point in firing Summers and Geithner -- a political nonstarter anyway, now that it's been opportunistically proposed by the G.O.P. leader John Boehner (his one good idea). Certainly Obama can add powerful new hands who might actually fight to protect ordinary Americans from the sharks; the star consumer advocate, Elizabeth Warren, should have been front and center, even in a Senate confirmation battle, long ago. But in the short term between now and Election Day, Obama may have the most to gain by sharpening his attack on those ''powerful interests'' who liken him to a dog. A top dog bites back (with a smile).
In a second forceful speech last week, delivered outside Cleveland, Obama titillated the political press by calling out Boehner by name eight times. But though Boehner is a nice soft target -- he belittled the economic meltdown as an ''ant'' and has staked his political capital on extending tax cuts for America's wealthiest 3 percent -- he's merely a front-man. Obama must also call out the powerful interests who are pulling the G.O.P.'s strings (and filling its coffers), whether on Wall Street or in Big Oil or any other sector where special interests are aligned against reform in the public interest.
If Obama can speak lucidly about a subject as thorny as race, he can surely do a far more specific job of telling the story of how we got to this economic impasse. He must join the many who are talking about why the top 1 percent of American earners now take home nearly a quarter of Americans' total income -- perhaps the single most revealing indicator of how three decades of greed and free-market absolutism have eviscerated America's fundamental ideals of fairness. It can't all be reduced to the shorthand of ''George W. Bush.''
Obama might be so rude as to point out how these top earners are whining all the way to the bank even as the G.O.P. opposes extending more benefits to the unemployed and new tax cuts to small business. In June, the Business Roundtable chairman and Verizon chief executive Ivan Seidenberg gave a speech so rank with self-victimization -- he claimed that government was ''reaching into virtually every sector of economic life'' -- that the normally polite Washington Post business columnist Steven Pearlstein reviled him as ''a corporate hack'' peddling ''much-discredited country-club nonsense.''
Seidenberg was soon topped by a multibillionaire Republican contributor, Stephen Schwarzman, who likened Obama's modest financial regulatory package to ''when Hitler invaded Poland in 1939.'' Among the clients of Schwarzman's private equity company, Blackstone, is Goodyear, which signed on in 2004 to get advice on ''optimal business configuration'' and announced it was shipping more jobs to Asia the following year. That narrative, one of countless like it, might have come in handy last week when Obama was speaking in Ohio, just 30 miles from Goodyear's headquarters.
As many have noted, the obvious political model for Obama this year is Franklin Roosevelt, who at his legendary 1936 Madison Square Garden rally declared that he welcomed the ''hatred'' of his enemies in the realms of ''business and financial monopoly, speculation, reckless banking, class antagonism, sectionalism, war profiteering.'' As the historian David Kennedy writes in his definitive book on the period, ''Freedom from Fear,'' Roosevelt ''had little to lose by alienating the right,'' including those in the corporate elite, with such invective; they already detested him as vehemently as the Business Roundtable crowd does Obama.
Though F.D.R. was predictably accused of ''class warfare,'' his antibusiness ''radicalism,'' was, in Kennedy's words, ''a carefully staged political performance, an attack not on the capitalist system itself but on a few high-profile capitalists.'' Roosevelt was trying to co-opt the populist rage of his economically despondent era, some of it uncannily Tea Party-esque in its hysteria, before it threatened that system, let alone his presidency. Only the crazy right confused F.D.R. with communists for taking on capitalism's greediest players, and since our crazy right has portrayed Obama as a communist, socialist and Nazi for months, he's already paid that political price without gaining any of the benefits of bringing on this fight in earnest.
F.D.R. presided over a landslide in 1936. The best the Democrats can hope for in 2010 is smaller-than-expected losses. To achieve even that, Obama will have to give an F.D.R.-size performance -- which he can do credibly and forcibly only if he really means it. So far, his administration's seeming coziness with some of the same powerful interests now vilifying him has left middle-class voters, including Democrats suffering that enthusiasm gap, confused as to which side he is on. If ever there was a time for him to clear up the ambiguity, this is it.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); DOGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TSUNAMIS (88%); POLITICS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US LABOR DAY (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (61%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



344 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: When Peggy Left Barry

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
How did the first president of color become so colorless?
And how can Obamicans can Obama?
The president is everywhere, trying to get more aggressive and recapture some of his ''Yes we can'' mojo in an effort to fend off the rebuke that's barreling toward him from voters this fall.
He's in his best buzzer-beating mode, knowing that if he loses even one house of Congress, he will be inundated by inane G.O.P. investigations that will consume the last two years of his term. House Republicans are already talking gleefully about a government shutdown. 
The country is more polarized than ever on race and religion, with a Florida faker holding a complicit media hostage in the Koran-burning pastor disaster. Mosque-baiting Republicans have shown again that they're willing to tear at the fabric of the country on the issues of 9/11 and national security in order to trample the Democrats.
Obama has been bleeding independents, who flocked to him in 2008 and were the deciding factor in several swing states. The White House is more focused on stimulating the base right now, figuring that the independents won't be voting that heavily in the midterms.
Among independent voters in 2012, Obama strategists think they have a better chance with women than men because of the president's abortion-rights support and health care legislation -- hence the appearance by the commander in chief on ''The View.'' And they reckon that he can devote more time to courting the indie ladies after November.
The official Obama site for independent voters highlights his quote from the campaign about bringing ''real change'' to Washington. The sentiment was challenged by NBC's Chuck Todd at the presidential press conference Friday.
''How have you changed Washington?'' Todd asked.
The president answered that he is trying to help ''ordinary families'' and not special interests, before conceding that he, too, is frustrated by his inability to create ''a greater spirit of cooperation in Washington.''
''You know, are there, you know, things that I might have done during the course of 18 months that would, you know, at the margins have improved some of the tone in Washington?'' Obama asked. ''Probably.'' Uncharacteristically valley girl, the usually eloquent president must have, you know, had a hard time acknowledging that.
''Is some of this just a core difference in approach, in terms of how we move this country forward, between Democrats and Republicans?'' he said. ''I'd say the answer is a lot more the latter.''
One of the independent voters Obama will be trying to charm over the next two years is my sister, Peggy, a formerly ardent Obamican (a Republican who changed spots to vote for Obama).
Disillusioned with her beloved W. over Iraq and Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld and the disdain for bipartisanship, she gave her affections -- and small cash infusions -- to Barack Obama in 2008.
Despite being a Washington native, Peggy believed that the dazzling young newcomer could change Washington.
But she has lost a lot of faith now, saying she might vote for Mitt Romney over Obama if Romney is the Republican nominee in 2012. (Sarah Palin shouldn't count on her vote though. In Peggy's words, ''Are you nuts?'')
Peggy thinks the president has done fine managing W.'s messes in Iraq and Afghanistan. And she lights up at the mention of his vice president, Joe Biden. But she thinks Obama has to get ''a backbone'' if he wants to lure her back to the fold. ''He promised us everything, saying he would turn the country around, and he did nothing the first year,'' Peggy says. ''He piddled around when he had 60 votes. He could have pushed through the health care bill but spent months haggling on it because he wanted to bring some Republicans on board. He was trying too hard to compromise when he didn't need the Republicans and they were never going to like him. Any idiot could see that.
''He could have gotten it through while Teddy Kennedy was still alive -- he owed the Kennedys something -- and then the bill was watered down.
''He hasn't saved the economy, and now he's admitting he's made very little progress. You can't for four years blame the person who used to be president. Obama tries to compromise too much, and he doesn't look like a strong leader. I don't watch him anymore. I'm turned off by him. I think he's an elitist. He went down to the gulf, telling everyone to take a vacation down there, and then he goes to Martha's Vineyard. He does what he wants but then he tells us to do other things.
''I want him in that White House acting like a president, not out on the campaign trail. Not when the country is going down the toilet.''
While Obama's out in the country trying to save Congressional Democrats, he should also think about how he's going to save himself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); RELIGION (69%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (69%); ABORTION (50%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



345 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Many Push for Repeal of Tax Provision in Health Law

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Many Democrats have joined Republicans in pushing for the repeal of a tax provision in the new health care law that imposes a huge information-reporting burden on small businesses.
To improve compliance, the law requires businesses to file a 1099 tax form identifying anyone to whom they pay $600 or more for goods or merchandise in a year. Businesses will also have to send copies of the form to their vendors, suppliers and contractors.
Businesses denounce the requirement, and even the national taxpayer advocate at the Internal Revenue Service, Nina E. Olson, said the reporting burden might ''turn out to be disproportionate as compared with any resulting improvement in tax compliance.'' 
The White House is nervous about a repeal, fearing that it could set a precedent for rolling back other unpopular features of the law. Moreover, the reporting requirement is expected to lead to a significant amount of revenue -- $17 billion over 10 years -- to help pay for the expansion of coverage and other health initiatives. It is unclear whether Democrats and Republicans can reach agreements on repealing the provision and on finding a way to offset the loss of money.
Under the law, businesses will be required to report purchases of items like office equipment, food and bottled water, gasoline, lumber and plumbing supplies if payments to any vendor in the course of a year total at least $600. They will, in many cases, also have to report payments for things like travel and telephone and Internet service.
The annual reports must include the vendor's address and taxpayer identification number.
The Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation and some lawmakers say the reporting requirement will induce businesses to pay more of the tax they owe -- just as individuals are more likely to pay tax on dividends and interest income knowing that such information has been reported to the I.R.S. by mutual funds, banks and other corporations.
Two Republicans, Representative Dan Lungren of California and Senator Mike Johanns of Nebraska, are leading efforts to repeal the reporting requirement.
In late July, 239 House Democrats voted for repeal, but the bill did not get the two-thirds majority needed for approval under the expedited procedure used then.
The Senate is scheduled to vote on a repeal, as an amendment to a small-business jobs bill, soon after it reconvenes this week.
President Obama strongly supports the jobs bill, which would provide loans and tax breaks to small businesses. But he has not embraced a repeal of the reporting requirement.
Most Republicans want a full repeal. In a recent speech, the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, said the ''1099 mandate'' showed how the health care law could ''wreak havoc on employers and entrepreneurs.''
Republicans also see the new requirement as an example of the intrusive role they say the I.R.S. will play in enforcing the health care law, including its requirement for most Americans to carry insurance.
Senate Democratic leaders prefer a proposal by Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, that would reduce the scope of the reporting requirement. Under Mr. Nelson's plan, businesses with 25 or fewer employees would be exempt from the new requirement, and the reporting threshold for larger businesses would be set at $5,000, rather than $600.
Mr. Nelson says more than 90 percent of companies would qualify for the small-business exemption under his proposal.
But Mr. Johanns said this ''half-measure'' was unacceptable.
Stephanie Cathcart, a spokeswoman for the National Federation of Independent Business, said many businesses would still have to keep track of their payments to each vendor to see if they exceeded the $5,000 threshold for the year.
Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, a vulnerable Democrat running for re-election, voted for the health care law but supports Mr. Johanns's effort to repeal the reporting requirement.
''We must not create unnecessary burdens for small businesses that serve as the backbone of Arkansas's economy,'' Mrs. Lincoln said.
To help make up for the loss of revenue, Mr. Johanns would cut spending from a new prevention and public health fund. Mr. Nelson would increase taxes on big oil companies.
In the House, Representative Scott Murphy of New York has led the Democratic efforts to repeal the reporting requirement.
''This 1099 reporting was a well-intentioned provision to try to catch people who were cheating on their taxes,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''But it has some unintended consequences and could be a huge hassle for a lot of small businesses.''
The reporting requirement was in the health care overhaul bill unveiled in mid-November by the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada. But it drew little attention at the time -- it was one of more than 15 revenue-raising measures in the bill -- and many lawmakers were apparently unaware of it when they voted for final passage of the legislation.
Four Democratic senators who voted for the bill have sent a letter to the I.R.S. expressing concern that ''the new requirements may place a hardship on small businesses.'' The letter was signed by Evan Bayh of Indiana, Mark Begich of Alaska, Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire.
For years, lawmakers have complained about the gap between taxes owed and taxes paid voluntarily. Reducing this gap is a top priority for some lawmakers, but resistance to the new reporting requirement shows how difficult it is to achieve that goal.
In a report on the tax gap, the I.R.S. said that ''there is a serious problem with underreporting'' of income by sole proprietors, who own unincorporated businesses by themselves. The Bush administration twice urged Congress to help close the gap by expanding information-reporting requirements.
Ms. Olson, the independent taxpayer advocate, said the new reporting requirement would apply to over 38 million businesses, including 26 million sole proprietorships and 2 million farms.
''The I.R.S. will face challenges making productive use of this new volume of information reports,'' Ms. Olson said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senators Bill Nelson, left, and Mike Johanns have competing proposals to ease a new reporting burden on small businesses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES
 LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); RETAILERS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); BOTTLED WATER (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: BILL NELSON (79%); MIKE JOHANNS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DANIEL E LUNGREN (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



346 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: POLITICAL TIMES: The Presidency, Chained to the World

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA tried to seize the moment last week, at the traditional start of the midterm election season, by laying out a series of new economic proposals. And yet, at least politically, there was something almost tangential about Mr. Obama's latest initiatives, which included $50 billion for infrastructure projects and an extension of the Bush tax cuts for all but the wealthiest Americans. The country's economic trajectory heading into November is probably unchangeable at this point, which means that nothing the president does now is likely to alter the grim data confronting the electorate.
Such powerlessness in the face of economic free fall has emerged as a hallmark of the modern presidency. While Mr. Obama is facing a more acute economic crisis moment than his predecessors, characterized by a near depression, the truth is that every president going back to Jimmy Carter, at one point or another, has had to campaign or govern in an environment dominated by the same cyclical and stubborn factors -- recession, unemployment, rising energy costs. And so perhaps Mr. Obama's presidency, as it reaches its midway point, is best understood not in isolation, but rather as part of a longer and still undefined political moment. 
The farther we get from presidencies, after all, the more we tend to view them as belonging to periods rather than individuals, as sometimes overlapping clusters along the country's historical continuum. We've had pre-Civil War-era and Reconstruction-era presidents, Industrial-era presidents and Depression-era presidents. The last discernible era belonged unmistakably to the cold war and can be said to have encompassed every president from Harry Truman through Ronald Reagan, all of whom served under the shadow of Armageddon.
When historians look back 50 years from now, in what era will they place Mr. Obama's presidency, and what does it say about the challenges he faces?
Historians have different ways of looking at the question. But in interviews, several hit on the same basic theme, which is that Mr. Obama and his immediate predecessors have been forced to contend with the erosion of self-sufficiency. In other words, until the end of the Soviet Union, America's economic and national security were largely self-determined, thanks to its manufacturing might and its ability to negotiate treaties with other states. But the advent of truly global markets, along with threats from non-state forces like Al Qaeda, changed all that. Now we live in an integrated world where American jobs rely on the economic policies of governments in Asia or Latin America, while our security is subject to the whims of a cleric living in a cave.
In ''Futurecast,'' his book about this new age, the economist Robert J. Shapiro notes that the percentage of the world's combined gross domestic product that is traded across borders rose to just under 30 percent by 2005, from 18 percent in 1990.
The Stanford historian, David M. Kennedy, points out that for most of the 20th century, foreign trade accounted for roughly 10 percent of America's G.D.P. That number started rising in the 1970s and now hovers at above 25 percent of G.D.P.
Mr. Kennedy said he suspected that his future fellow historians would classify our most recent presidencies as encapsulating an ''era of globalization'' in which ''the whole concept of sovereignty is less meaningful than it once was.''
John Lewis Gaddis, the Yale historian and pre-eminent scholar of the cold war period, calls the last decade or so an ''age of regression,'' meaning that the popular notion of a ''unipolar'' world -- one in which the United States was supposed to have no serious economic or military competitors -- gave way to the realization that the best America could aspire to was a stable balance of power.
All of this has significant ramifications for Mr. Obama and our concept of the presidency generally. The presidents whose statues ring the National Mall are those who were deemed not just wise and just, but also masters of our national destiny. We celebrate them as decisive men who, by making the right choices, seemed to define and control the events of their times.
What the historians are suggesting, however, is that the modern president may simply not be able to exercise that same firm grasp -- or at least not most of the time. With global interdependence comes a certain lack of control, a vulnerability to disparate influences beyond our territorial borders that are less obvious and less easily answered than the launch of a Soviet satellite. And those influences, perhaps, directly undermine our ideal of what a president should be.
We are susceptible to presidents who talk with the self-assuredness of a Western movie sheriff or who, like Mr. Obama, seem to project an aura of celebrity or historic greatness. But we are disappointed when they inevitably turn out to be a less than omnipotent or, like George W. Bush, fall victim to their own romantic notions of American power.
''This is what will end up defining this era of the presidency -- the diminished power, the diminished authority, the diminished capacity to shape events,'' says Robert Dallek, the presidential biographer. ''It's the presidency in eclipse.''
Of course, such pessimism about what Mr. Dallek calls the ''ungovernable qualities'' of the moment are often overstated in difficult times. For a period in the 1980s, it was fashionable to say that New York City, too, had become ''ungovernable''; no one says that anymore. Pronouncements of the nation's fading dominance rang out regularly in the years before the nation won the cold war. It would be unfair to suggest that Mr. Obama or any other president is simply awash in historical currents, unable to navigate himself or the country through challenging times.
What probably is true, however, is that even a president's successes, in an age where a debt crisis in Greece can lead to a sudden panic on Wall Street, are likely to seem more uneven and less resounding to voters than, say, the completion of the Continental Railroad or the surrender of Japan. If you're the American president, you still have the opportunity to lead in a crisis and ultimately prevail. But you probably shouldn't expect any marble monuments for your trouble.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HISTORY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COLD WAR (76%); RECESSION (74%); TAX LAW (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); CIVIL WAR (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



347 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 35B

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: The End Is Near for the Mayor, But Citizens' Woes Will Go On

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
A few came to praise Caesar, a few to bury him, but most just to gripe. If only the pretenders to the throne knew what beckons.
Mayor Richard M. Daley willingly served as a lame duck pinata Friday night inside the warm West Side gym at Westinghouse College Prep in a revealing epilogue to last week's dramatic announcement that he won't seek a seventh term.
It was the second night of an annual ritual that receives scant news media attention: an Ironman Triathlon of public hearings on his preliminary budget. The first had been the night before at the South Shore Cultural Center, and his very last will be Friday at North Grand High School. 
Ever since his 1989 ascendancy, Mr. Daley lets anybody ask whatever they desire, or simply harangue him. On Thursday and Friday, more than 100 Chicagoans emoted in hearings that lasted a combined six hours and provided a better window on his tenure than the news conferences devoured by his sedentary City Hall chroniclers.
For sure, Mr. Daley's legacy will turn on large actions, good and bad.
Those actions included reviving a decaying Rust Belt economy with a globally-oriented one perhaps trailing only New York, London, Singapore and Tokyo; reviving the downtown and reinventing the lakefront; taking on public housing and public education; boosting the arts to a new plateau; and not making much of a dent in poverty, segregation and municipal corruption.
But mayoral wannabes had best grasp how the victor can't focus just on the long term, no matter how visionary he or she may be. There are the unceasing smaller issues and individual crises lost to history.
Surrounded at a long table by two dozen city officials, Mr. Daley watched as folks lined up at a microphone and displayed the wonderfully untidy nature of democracy. Some were inarticulate, gratuitous, redundant and illogical. But they all spoke to their real-world concerns.
At the South Shore meeting, he heard calls to restore funding for mental health clinics; trim the trees in Tuley Park and at 98th and Yates Streets; fix sidewalks and catch basins on East 90th Street; repair a deteriorating alley behind 75th Street in the 6th ward; resume the nursing program at Kennedy-King and Olive Harvey Colleges, and extend the Red line.
Citizens called for buying more electrocardiogram machines for health clinics; repairing potholes at 79th and King Drive; having new textbooks at Hyde Park High School; barring drivers from using a particular alley as a thoroughfare, and dealing with vacant city-owned lots frequented by drug dealers and prostitutes.
Voices were raised. ''We need money! Fix the crime. Help us!'' shouted a West Side resident at the Friday hearing. ''Mayor Daley, do not exit without helping the people!''
But most requests were not that broad. Citizens asked him to turn on lights at a park at dusk for safety; deal with a proliferation of raccoons; combat ''language pollution'' of foul-mouthed teens; put a fence around a particular vacant lot, and add cops, not more security cameras atop poles.
He was beseeched to increase canine patrols; place a moratorium on evictions; use federal anti-terrorism funds to deal with gangs; turn a vacant fire station into a Park District field house; combat asthma in the Little Village and Pilsen neighborhoods, and restore financing to the city's municipal cable channel.
The most-referenced topic was Tax Increment Financing, one of Mr. Daley's favorite fiscal vehicles, whose aim is to hike growth in down-in-the-dumps areas through revenues accruing from property value growth there. A somewhat disputed, and little-understood, spur to development, it is some citizens' magical solution to every city ill.
There were accolades thrown Mr. Daley's way and, in some cases, a mutual respect between him and critics. For example, he and George Blakemore, who have been at it for 21 years, engaged in a quasi love-fest Friday.
Mr. Blakemore was upset that the Brown Line stop at the Harold Washington Library Center only notes ''Library Stop,'' not the full name. Mr. Daley whispered aloud to an aide, then announced, ''George, I just got the answer. That sign will be up.''
The mayor mostly listens and takes whatever is thrown at him. But there is an attention to detail rarely seen in public. After someone is through complaining, he or she is met by an official from a city department to follow up.
Mr. Daley's own attention occasionally wandered, as did he. Citizens were addressing his empty chair as he came up to me and said: ''I've been doing this for 21 years. Other mayors don't believe it when I tell them.''
A few minutes before, a clinical therapist had bemoaned the budget-cutting decline in psychiatrists in the mental health department.
I couldn't help but think that Mr. Daley should hire at least one more -- and let him consult with anybody who really wants this job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (84%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); TEXTBOOKS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); PUBLIC HOUSING (65%); CORRUPTION (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (61%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (61%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



348 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Portraits of Young Voters

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''In a Shift, Fewer Young Voters See Themselves as Democrats'' (''Crossroads County'' series, front page, Sept. 3): 
While many young people eschew political labels, the truth is that we in the millennial generation generally hold more progressive values and positive views of government than our parents and grandparents. At a time when the Republican Party is trending more conservative, it seems highly unlikely that young voters will identify with G.O.P. candidates en masse.
Young Americans have been disproportionately affected by the current recession. And high unemployment and budget deficits are not unique to the last 18 months. The Republican Party ceded its moral authority as fiscal guardians during the Bush years, and my generation will be paying the consequences for decades to come.
Even in a difficult political climate, Democrats maintain a 22-point advantage in party identification with voters under 30. As the millennial generation becomes a larger percentage of the overall electorate, the Democratic Party is poised to experience long-term gains.
Rod Snyder
President
Young Democrats of America
Shenandoah Junction, W.Va.
Sept. 7, 2010
To the Editor:
In our culture of increasingly short memory, the Republicans are lucky that they lost the presidency in 2008.
People now disenchanted with President Obama and the Democrats over the economy make me think of someone who has driven his car off a cliff into the ocean and who blames the repair guy who comes out to the site because he is not hoisting the car out of the ocean and back up the cliff fast enough.
Richard Rosenthal New York, Sept. 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MILLENNIUM (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); GRANDPARENTS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: YOUNG DEMOCRATS OF AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



349 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 35A

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Residents of Razed Neighborhood Look to PG&E Officials for Answers

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS and GERRY SHIH; Shoshana Walter contributed reporting.. 
estevens@baycitizen.org; gshih@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
In retrospect, perhaps many things should not have been built in this hilly, quiet corner of San Bruno.
Crestmoor, the subdivision devastated Thursday night in an explosion, is adjacent to San Andreas Lake. Running beneath it is California's most-famous seismic fault.
But it wasn't an earthquake that leveled dozens of Crestmoor's homes. In addition to the fault line, the quiet development was built 50 years ago atop a 30-inch steel gas pipeline that, according to residents, had become an ominous presence in their lives before it exploded around dinnertime.
The inferno killed at least six people and destroyed 37 homes, wiping out much of the neighborhood.
Federal and state authorities are investigating not only what caused the 54-year-old pipeline to rupture and explode, but also whether PG&E responded appropriately to what residents described as continuous complaints about possible leaks. 
''It just didn't seem like they wanted to do too much about it,'' said Jason Johnson, 30, an unemployed contractor. ''Basically they were just shrugging us off saying, 'Oh it's your imagination.' But when I smell gas, I smell gas.''
Jeff Smith, a PG&E spokesman, declined to comment on PG&E's response to service requests in the neighborhood, citing the ongoing federal investigation. The company, documents show, has been beset by recent accidents in the Bay Area and Sacramento.
Crestmoor, with its winding streets and capacious houses, was built around 1960. It is composed largely of close-knit middle-class families, many of whom live within walking distance of their relatives on cul-de-sacs dotted with wood and stucco homes. The neighborhood is filled with young professionals and government employees, including workers at nearby San Francisco International Airport. On warm evenings, older men and women take walks with their grandchildren, and neighbors talk in their driveways.
In recent years, however, residents said the aging network of natural-gas pipes beneath Crestmoor produced odors and suspicious activity that began to encroach on daily life. Four months ago, according to Kathy Crouse, a retired American Airlines employee, what appeared to be a gas leak caused a patch of her lawn to turn yellow, and bubbles formed on the surface when it rained.
Days before the explosion, other residents said they complained about a persistent gas smell. Crews sent by PG&E to investigate a possible leak told residents to close their garage doors to keep out the smell, those residents said.
One day before the explosion, PG&E trucks with heavy equipment were seen on the street.
Those who called Crestmoor home -- many for decades -- know that nothing here will ever be the same.
Gayle Masunu, 59, and her mother Loretta, 83, lived for 40 years in a green bungalow on Claremont Drive. Ms. Masunu had worked for years as a preschool teacher and, before that, doing various jobs at the airport. A half-dozen relatives worked there too, including her son, Shane, who refueled jets and handled baggage before being laid off several months ago.
Ms. Masunu was at home Thursday when everything began rumbling and she heard an explosion. She ran into a back room, where her mother stood frozen. The back of the house faced the block that was the epicenter of the blast.
''I tried to pull her, I tried to pull her, she wouldn't move,'' Ms. Masunu said.
Ms. Masunu's fleece jacket melted on her back as she dragged her mother out of the house. Loretta Masunu , who had two previous strokes, was put on life-support in the intensive care unit at San Francisco General Hospital. Her relatives feared the worst until Friday morning, when she began to breathe on her own, make jokes, and even kick her grandson, Shane, out of her hospital room.
The family's valuables, most of which they kept with the grandmother, are gone. In the wake of the disaster, many residents and local politicians directed their questions at PG&E, and the company's behavior before and after the disaster.
Mr. Smith, the company spokesman, said PG&E shut off the gas supply that fed the fire ''in the latter part'' of Thursday evening. The explosion occurred at about 6 p.m.
Mr. Smith referred to what happened to the Masunus and their neighbors as a ''terrible tragedy,'' and said that his company was now focused on making sure ''their immediate material needs are met.''
Ms. Crouse, who reported the yellowing lawn, said she had complained to PG&E about gas smells and possible leaks for 15 years. She said a neighbor called in a gas-leak complaint, and this took PG&E three weeks to fix -- so long that the chalk drawn on the asphalt by repair crews was washed away by rain and had to be re-drawn.
At one point, Ms. Crouse said, PG&E workers told her that the odors came from a refinery more than 20 miles away.
''How stupid do you think we are?'' Ms. Crouse said she thought.
PG&E carries nearly $1 billion in liability insurance, it reported in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Friday.
''Depending on the final outcome of the investigation, and if insurance recoveries are unavailable or insufficient to cover the losses, PG&E Corporation's and the utility's financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected,'' wrote PG&E General Counsel Hyun Park.
The California Public Utilities Commission, which regulates PG&E, could not say immediately when it last audited the pipeline, which runs 46 miles from Milpitas, near San Jose, to San Francisco. The responsibility to test the soundness of the system rests on PG&E.
There have been several incidents involving PG&E in San Francisco in recent years, according to public documents. In December 2003, investigators found that PG&E took two hours to summon the San Francisco Fire Department when a fire broke out in its Mission District substation. The incident resulted in a massive power outage.
In August 2005, Lisa Nash was severely burned in a PG&E electrical explosion near the Crocker Galleria in the Financial District. She spent over two months in the hospital. She sued PG&E and said she cannot speak about the specifics of her experience, except to praise the personnel at the burn unit at Saint Francis Memorial Hospital, where many of the San Bruno victims were also treated.
On Christmas Eve 2008, an explosion destroyed a house in Rancho Cordova, near Sacramento. Wilbert Paana, 72, was killed, and his daughter and granddaughter were injured. An N.T.S.B. investigation found that a poor repair job and a nearly three-hour delay in responding properly to a gas leak at the house were to blame.
Dennis Herrera, San Francisco city attorney, pressured PG&E to take corrective action after these earlier incidents.
Matt Dorsey, a spokesman for Mr. Herrera, said that all the facts about the tragedy in San Bruno are not yet known. ''But it is no secret there have been a history of problems with respect to the safety of PG&E's infrastructure here in San Francisco,'' Mr. Dorsey said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A massive explosion and fire on Thursday evening in San Bruno rocked a neighborhood that is composed largely of close-knit middle-class families.
 Karen Frechette expresses her frustration on Friday after she is not allowed to see if her house or pets survived the explosion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); EARTHQUAKES (78%); GAS LEAKS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (75%); FAMILY (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); AIRPORTS (62%); AIRLINES (62%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (62%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



350 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: THE CHATTER

 BODY:
''This is everything for us.''
Mark Reuss, president of G.M.'s North American operations, on the Cruze, a compact car that is the company's most significant new-model introduction in the United States since last year's bankruptcy. 
''What am I going to do if I live to 82 or 99 like my grandfather?''
William D'Alessandro, 62, a newsletter editor in Amherst, N.H., who has no pension and planned to live on savings when he retired. Low interest rates, intended to spur borrowing and spending, have jeopardized his goal.
''We don't expect to make a miracle in a week, but I think over time it's going to happen.''
Nadia Shouraboura, vice president for global fulfillment at Amazon, on the company's effort to persuade manufacturers to adopt ''frustration-free packaging'' that gets rid of plastic cases and air-bubble wrap major irritants for consumers.
''Nobody wants to talk about this even though it's happening everywhere.''
Ron Harrison, director of technical services for Orkin, on bedbugs. Pest-control firms report finding bedbugs in office buildings, movie theaters, clothing stores, food plants, factories and even airplanes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); PACKAGING MATERIALS (72%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (70%); BED BUGS (70%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



351 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3501 words

HEADLINE: The Loneliest Analyst

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Lutz, Fla.
RICHARD X. BOVE is a bank analyst who likes to take what he calls ''extreme positions.'' He occasionally moves the stock market, which has earned him a certain amount of prestige and notoriety -- but has also gotten him fired several times.
One recent Tuesday morning, for instance, Mr. Bove opined from his bright-orange home office, in this town just north of Tampa, that new government rules would curb mortgage profits and, therefore, bank profits, too.
It wasn't a particularly extreme pronouncement, by Bove standards. Yet shares of Wells Fargo, the nation's largest mortgage lender, started to drop, and his phone lighted up. 
''That's what makes the game fun, right?'' he says.
But for the last two years, Mr. Bove has been engaged in a lonely legal battle to retain his ability to say whatever he likes, an ordeal that he says has been anything but fun. BankAtlantic, a Florida bank, sued him, accusing him of defamation after he wrote a report about the banking industry in July 2008, just as the financial crisis was starting to boil over. The bank contended that the report falsely suggested that the institution was in trouble.
The case was settled three months ago , and Mr. Bove didn't pay a dime to BankAtlantic. Still, it was hardly a resounding victory for Mr. Bove or, for that matter, freedom of speech on Wall Street, where some say the need for independent, probing voices has never been more apparent.
Although Mr. Bove is among the best-known analysts on Wall Street, most of his colleagues deserted him after BankAtlantic filed its suit. None of the professional associations that represent analysts or the securities industry rallied to his side, and his employer ultimately abandoned him. And Mr. Bove, 69, is stuck with nearly $800,000 in legal fees.
''Even though from a legal standing I won, from a real-world point of view I lost big,'' he says.
The Bove report that led to the lawsuit, titled ''Who Is Next?,'' ranked 107 bank companies from riskiest to least risky, using two financial ratios as benchmarks on two lists. BankAtlantic Bancorp, the publicly traded holding company that controls BankAtlantic, was ranked 10th on one list, 12th on the other.
Alan B. Levan, the chairman and C.E.O. of BankAtlantic Bancorp, has often clashed with disgruntled investors and critics in his 40-year career in Florida real estate and banking. He says he filed his suit against Mr. Bove to protect his bank's reputation.
''In the last three years, every business in America has been under extreme pressure because of the economy,'' says Mr. Levan, 65. ''In that kind of a scenario, when rumors begin that are inaccurate or portray a business in a light that is not true, then, in times of stress, companies need to correct those misconceptions immediately because otherwise it can become quite dangerous.''
As it turns out, however, Mr. Bove's rankings have proved to be largely correct. On the first set of rankings, 8 out of the 20 companies he said were most at risk have failed, and most of the others' stock prices have spiraled downward and remain low. On the second list of rankings, 9 of the top 20 banks are gone.
BankAtlantic Bancorp's stock trades at just under $1, down from its record high of $100 at the end of 2004. The company continues to struggle under the weight of its huge Florida real estate holdings, and some analysts say tighter banking regulations will only add to financial pressure at the company.
Maclovio Pina, a banking analyst at Morningstar, says BankAtlantic is likely to continue to struggle. ''It's a murky future, in our view,'' he says.
While it is not unusual for bank executives to grumble about analysts, it's highly unusual for them to sue. For one thing, many lawyers believe that it is hard to successfully sue someone over his or her opinions. It's also a challenge to prove that a report from a single analyst actually hurt a company's business.
But the BankAtlantic suit, closely watched in the banking industry, seemed to capture the angst that many bank leaders felt in 2008, when even some of the most venerable institutions faced the precipice.
Mr. Levan was not the only bank executive to blame others as his company's stock tanked. A chorus of banking chiefs at the likes of Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley publicly blamed skeptics and investors betting against them as the reason their shares fell.
Few banking executives, however, have pushed their complaints as far as Mr. Levan.
IF Mr. Levan is sensitive about his bank, it may be because he built it from a sleepy savings and loan into Florida's second-largest bank, behind BankUnited. He controls the bank and the holding company along with a small group of associates, including his son, Jarett Levan, who was named chief executive of the bank in 2007.
The ownership structure is complex: Alan Levan and his associates control a company called BFC Financial, which owns shares in BankAtlantic Bancorp, the company that, in turn, owns BankAtlantic. Mr. Levan and his associates control BFC and BankAtlantic through special classes of voting shares.
''We don't like different classes of shares,'' says Paul Hodgson, senior research associate at the Corporate Library, which monitors corporate governance practices. ''We don't think they are good for public shareholders, and our reasoning behind that is that it's too easy for the controlling shareholder to run the company for their financial benefit rather than the benefit of public shareholders.''
Mr. Levan says that he doesn't agree with such criticisms. His company's stock structure has allowed him to remain independent while many other Florida banks have been absorbed by out-of-state banks or gone out of business. He notes that the stock structure is similar to that of The New York Times Company.
Mr. Levan moved to Florida after a brief stint on Wall Street and started in the real estate business. In the mid-1980s, he entered banking by buying up shares of BankAtlantic, then the Atlantic Federal Savings and Loan Bank. By 1987, he was running the place.
As C.E.O., Mr. Levan oversaw 20 years of expansion. He rebranded BankAtlantic as ''Florida's most convenient bank,'' keeping branches open on weekends. The bank's strong branch network is one of the company's best assets, analysts say, providing it with a stable source of funding.
Along the way, Mr. Levan has often gone to great lengths to protect his bank's fortunes and his own reputation.
In the 1980s, for example, after several quarters of losses, BankAtlantic was in such dire straits that Mr. Levan had to scramble financially to keep it afloat, according to court documents.
Mr. Levan, who was running partnerships that invested in Florida real estate, persuaded thousands of small investors in his deals to swap their stakes for debt in BFC. He then turned around and sold that real estate, giving him money to bolster BankAtlantic's finances, court records show.
Some of the investors later sued Mr. Levan, arguing that they had been cheated. A judge in a related case supported that view, writing that the transactions were a deal that ''a person even mildly familiar with investments would conclude was unfair.''
ABC News broadcast a critical report on Mr. Levan's real estate deals, and he sued the network, accusing it of slander. ABC ultimately won, after the Supreme Court declined to hear the case.
More recently, as BankAtlantic's loan portfolio was battered in the recession, Mr. Levan took several steps to shore up the bank's finances and to appease regulators, including an announcement this month that the bank was seeking to raise $125 million in capital.
He has also shifted troubled assets from BankAtlantic to its holding company. Because regulators don't require the holding company to be as financially sound as BankAtlantic, the maneuver appeased regulators while shifting the burden to the holding company.
In 2008, Mr. Levan sold $101.5 million of distressed commercial loans from the bank to the holding company for 93.5 cents on the dollar. Since then, the loans have lost half their value, but the transfer prevented that downturn from more seriously undermining BankAtlantic.
Legislators and regulators, as part of the recent financial overhaul, are planning new regulations that would require holding companies, as well as their subsidiaries, to be more financially sound.
As his career ascended, Mr. Levan was in the news over a personal matter. In 1988, three gun-toting thieves broke into his Coral Gables home, kidnapped his first wife and their daughter and demanded nearly a quarter of a million dollars in ransom. Mr. Levan paid the kidnappers, and his family was later found unharmed in the trunk of their Mercedes-Benz, according to The Miami Herald.
A former colleague at BankAtlantic says that while Mr. Levan has a friendly, slow-talking demeanor, he is fast to size up situations and always ready to jump into combat. He doesn't respond well to criticism and has a tendency to continue battles for too long, says this person, who requested anonymity because he didn't want to alienate Mr. Levan.
Mr. Levan disputes that observation. ''If anything has become clear from recent events, it is that we have encouraged and tolerated dissenting views almost to a fault,'' he says. ''We survived the last banking crisis, when giants failed, by being flexible in our approach to complex issues and ahead of the curve.''
MR. BOVE, who grew up in New York City, is a bit of an anomaly among bank analysts. He is twice as old as many of his competitors and relishes talking to the news media; many others aren't allowed to make such appearances or do so only grudgingly. And he works out of his home for a small securities firm, with grandchildren and dogs cavorting outside his door, rather than at a big bank in Manhattan.
He has been covering banking for about three decades, even as many of his contemporaries have moved on to careers in money management and other more lucrative work. ''For some reason I really like what I do, and I just don't want to do anything else,'' he says.
Even in the midst of the BankAtlantic litigation, Mr. Bove continued to crank out at least one report a day and sometimes as many as five. He says he tries to capture the big picture rather than focus on the granular financial details found in earnings statements.
''What's the reason to pay me to be the 14th guy to tell you what is going to happen in the second quarter at Citigroup?'' he says. ''There's just no utility for a guy at a boutique that operates pretty much on his own to replicate the work of other analysts.''
A high point in Mr. Bove's career came in 2005. That August, he issued an eight-page report titled ''This Powder Keg Is Going to Blow.'' He argued that loose lending standards had created the housing bubble and that it was going to come to an abrupt and painful end.
''When I wrote that, people thought I was nuts,'' he recalls. ''Now if I would have stayed with that until 2008, I'd be America's hero.''
After correctly parsing the looming banking crisis, Mr. Bove felt that by the spring of 2008, the worst had passed. He made a major blunder by encouraging investors to buy up bank stocks at the time and remained bullish through the summer, when he released ''Who Is Next?'' Bank shares collapsed months later, before rallying again in 2009.
Even as he has bounced from one firm to another, he has maintained a healthy list of clients. Banks and mutual funds are his biggest clients, followed by hedge funds, he says.
Some bank executives who have known Mr. Bove over the years hold him in high regard.
''We certainly haven't always agreed with his assessments,'' says John A. Allison IV, the former chief executive of BB&T, the major regional bank based in Winston-Salem, N.C. ''My experience was that he gave a very thoughtful overview. I would rate him highly.''
Mr. Bove has his share of detractors, too, who criticize him for ubiquitous media appearances and a predilection for changing his views too quickly. Several suggest that Mr. Bove is inconsistent, making a brilliant insight one week, a mediocre one the next.
But Andy Kessler, a former Wall Street analyst, says it's common for analysts to change their style to cater to their clients. ''If your clients are mostly hedge funds, you're going to give lots of short-term analysis,'' he says.
Mr. Bove moved with his wife, Christel, who is blind from multiple sclerosis, and their seven children to Florida from New York in 1994. It was after that when he says he encountered Mr. Levan, in a series of meetings in the late 1990s. Mr. Bove recalls Mr. Levan being upbeat about BankAtlantic's prospects.
''I don't remember ever having a contentious or negative meeting with BankAtlantic,'' says Mr. Bove. As for Mr. Levan: ''He was a very personable individual. He was friendly. He was open. I thought he answered the questions in a very frank manner.''
THE oddity of the BankAtlantic lawsuit, Mr. Bove says, is that he was actually trying to show that he was more bullish on banks than other analysts, which turned out to be a mistake, given the financial crisis that followed. The subtitle of ''Who Is Next?,'' in fact, is ''Not as Many Candidates as One Would Think.''
After the report was filed, it took just eight days for BankAtlantic to file its lawsuit. Mr. Levan said in a statement at the time: ''If there is anyone who knows 'Who Is Next?,' it would be the folks at the F.D.I.C., with mountains of detailed financial information about every institution enjoying deposit insurance. They, however, keep what they know to themselves -- for good reason.''
The bank wanted Mr. Bove to correct his report, which had ranked the holding company, not BankAtlantic itself. Mr. Levan argues that the media misinterpreted the report and reported that the bank, rather than the holding company, was in trouble. The distinction is important, he said, because the bank has remained well capitalized. Those capital levels kept regulators happy, even as some analysts questioned the health of the holding company.
To a certain extent, Mr. Levan is simply splitting hairs: it's the holding company that is publicly traded, and its assets are almost entirely made up of BankAtlantic assets, so the fortunes of the two entities are tightly linked.
Mr. Bove said that if he hadn't fought the lawsuit, he and other analysts would find their work and careers undermined by constant flurries of suits.
''I'm trying to protect my ability to do my job,'' he says. ''Any company could direct my research if I had allowed this to go through.''
Still, other than a few pundits, no one stepped forward to help him, Mr. Bove says. Several associations that represent stock analysts or the securities industry declined Mr. Bove's requests to help him pay his legal bills, he says. Those groups -- the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association; the New York Society of Security Analysts; and the CFA Institute -- declined to comment.
Mr. Bove's former employer, the investment bank Ladenburg Thalmann, chose to settle its end of the case by paying BankAtlantic $350,000, without admitting to any wrongdoing, and leaving Mr. Bove to defend himself; he said he quit the firm in February because of disagreements over the lawsuit. He now works for Rochdale Securities.
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, an independent securities watchdog, started an investigation of Mr. Bove in 2008, demanding his records on BankAtlantic and questioning him for half a day. He was never penalized.
Ladenburg declined comment, as did the authority, which also declined to say why it began its investigation of him.
John C. Coffee Jr., a law professor at Columbia University, likens Mr. Bove to a news reporter who is sued over an article. But, he says, the press typically rallies around reporters whose First Amendment rights are challenged, while securities analysts are a much less cohesive group.
Nonetheless, Mr. Coffee says the stakes in the Bove case were high because a negative outcome could ''chill free and robust debate.''
''Anyone who is forced to settle in a case like that increases the chances that a combative C.E.O. will sue the next analyst who challenges him,'' Mr. Coffee adds.
As part of his lawsuit against Mr. Bove, Mr. Levan maintained that BankAtlantic was financially healthy. While it is true that BankAtlantic has met its regulator's financial requirements, the holding company, which has absorbed a large chunk of BankAtlantic's troubled assets, has lost money for the last 12 quarters. And it was the holding company that Mr. Bove was ranking, not the bank subsidiary housed inside of it.
Although Mr. Levan said in an interview that his bank didn't apply for federal bailout money during the financial crisis, the bank's own financial filings show that it did apply. Asked about this, Mr. Levan sent an e-mail clarifying the matter: ''We filed an application to keep our options open but withdrew it prior to the time it was acted upon. At no time did we ever make a determination to accept federal monies.''
In February this year, Mr. Levan approached some of BankAtlantic's debt holders and asked them to sell their securities back to the bank for 20 cents on the dollar. Investors balked, led by a New York hedge fund called Hildene Capital Management.
''In light of BankAtlantic's protests of any criticism of its performance, its current proposal seems out of step with its fanatical defense of its financial condition,'' wrote John Scannell, chief operating officer of Hildene, in a February letter. ''For example, BankAtlantic seemed so concerned with any implication that it was experiencing distress, it sued noted banking analyst Dick Bove in 2008.''
Instead of asking the debt holders to accept a discount, Mr. Scannell says he suggested that Mr. Levan and his son take big pay cuts. Mr. Levan says he doesn't recall details of his conversations with Hildene, but says the firm didn't influence his decision to ultimately give up on the debt exchange offer.
Last month, a federal judge in a shareholder lawsuit against BankAtlantic's holding company questioned Mr. Levan's integrity, ruling that Mr. Levan had made false statements in 2007 about the extent of bad loans. The plaintiffs argue that Mr. Levan did so intentionally in order to artificially bolster the stock price.
Mr. Levan denies that accusation and doesn't agree with the judge's assessment, either, but on Thursday the judge turned down Mr. Levan's request to reconsider the matter. The case is pending.
Mr. Levan, meanwhile, is dueling with investors of other companies in which his company owns stakes -- Benihana, the restaurant chain, and Woodbridge Holdings, formerly known as the Levitt Corporation, the home builder famous for building Levittown on Long Island.
BankAtlantic entered into settlement talks with Mr. Bove in his case in March. In the case, Mr. Levan said Mr. Bove's report had damaged the bank's reputation.
But ''at the end of the day, that may not have been a strong case for them,'' says Thomas F. Holt Jr., a lawyer for Mr. Bove. If the case had gone to court, Mr. Holt said, he planned to counter BankAtlantic's argument by putting the bank's reputation on trial.
Mr. Levan disagrees with that assessment. ''There was nothing Mr. Holt said he was going to say or do that had any bearing on our view of the case against Mr. Bove,'' he says.
MR. LEVAN says he and BankAtlantic got exactly what they wanted out of the lawsuit against Mr. Bove. As part of the settlement, Mr. Bove issued a statement reiterating that his rankings didn't include BankAtlantic. (But they did include its holding company.)
Yet Mr. Levan may not have won everything he sought. For one, he said the bank did not sue Mr. Bove for money; however, e-mails from BankAtlantic's lawyer show that the company sought as much as $650,000 from the analyst. In addition, BankAtlantic had sought a much more strongly worded statement than Mr. Bove ultimately issued, the e-mails show.
Regardless, Mr. Levan remains upbeat about his bank. He and his son rang the bell at the New York Stock Exchange last month, and Mr. Levan contends that his company is ''a fantastic banking story of a bank that really did extremely well in this recession.''
Mr. Bove, meanwhile, says his feud with Mr. Levan was mostly dispiriting. He's particularly frustrated with government regulators, whom he believes ignored red flags at BankAtlantic for years.
As he continues to churn out opinions about bank stocks, Mr. Bove says he has no intention of opining on BankAtlantic Bancorp again. Nothing personal, he says, but the banking company is simply too small to interest his clients.
''It's a purely economic decision,'' he says.
Correction: September 19, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption last Sunday with an article about the bank analyst Richard X. Bove omitted the photographer's credit. The picture, of Mr. Bove, was by Melissa Lyttle for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BankAtlantic accused Richard Bove, a bank analyst, of defamation after he wrote a critical report. He received little support from his peers in the industry before the suit was settled. (BU1)
Alan Levan, center, leads BankAtlantic's holding company, while his son, Jarett, right, is the bank's C.E.O. Executives often complain about an industry analyst's critical report, but few have gone as far as Alan Levan and sued. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALSO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Richard Bove in his home office in Lutz, Fla. He said his defense left him with nearly $800,000 in legal fees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIPPE DIEDERICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)( BU9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); LITIGATION (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); STANDING TO SUE (63%)

COMPANY: BBX CAPITAL CORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

TICKER: BBX (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010



352 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Melissa Mangano, Brian Davidson

BYLINE: By ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

 BODY:
Melissa Catherine Mangano and Brian Christopher Davidson were married Saturday evening at the Hotel Monaco in Alexandria, Va. Maureen Burke, a Universal Brotherhood minister, officiated.
The bride, 37, works in Fairfax City, Va., as a regional manager for Virginia, Washington and Maryland with Bright Horizons Family Solutions, an operator of child-care centers. She is on the board of two advocacy groups: the Virginia Association of Early Childhood Education and the Northern Virginia Association for the Education of Young Children. She graduated from Bucknell and received a master's in early childhood education from the University of Pennsylvania.
She is the daughter of Diane Mangano-Cohen of Westport, Conn., and the late Vincent J. Mangano 3rd, and is the stepdaughter of William A. Cohen. The bride's mother, who retired as an interior designer in Westport, is on the board of the Jewish Home for the Elderly in Fairfield, Conn. The bride's father was a lawyer with the General Reinsurance Corporation in Greenwich, Conn. Her stepfather, who is retired, worked in Stamford, Conn., as the senior vice president for marketing strategy in the brand and advertising division of Taylor Nelson Sofres, a London market research company. 
The bridegroom, also 37, is a computer systems administrator at George Mason University in Fairfax City, from which he received two bachelor's degrees, one in piano in 2003 and another this year in mathematics.
He is the son of Judy Davidson and Richard Davidson of Reston, Va. The bridegroom's mother is an instructional assistant in math and English at Forest Edge Elementary School there. His father retired as a civil engineer for the Army Corps of Engineers in Washington.
The couple were matched online in September 2008. Mr. Davidson became fed up with traditional dating when one of the women he was seeing fell asleep during a Mahler symphony at the Kennedy Center.
''I really wanted to meet someone to really share that enjoyment with me,'' said Mr. Davidson, who had made a New Year's resolution to see at least one classical music concert a month.
Ms. Mangano's online profile, in which she seemed to express an interest in classical music, caught his eye. But his timing was a little off.
She was disheartened with online dating, which she had been doing intermittently since 2003, and she was about to head off on a two-week Mediterranean cruise.
Ms. Mangano explained, ''I just couldn't find anyone.'' And so she decided to take a break from online dating and refocused on being single.
In January, before her online dating membership expired, she took one last look through her matches. ''I saw Brian,'' she said, and hurried off an apologetic e-mail. ''There was this adorable man. I thought he was snapped up.''
Mr. Davidson got back to her in a day or so, inviting her to a Kennedy Center concert that featured Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 3.
''She really enjoyed the concert,'' said Mr. Robinson, who mentioned to her that he had been practicing the work on his own. And soon he learned that not only was Ms. Mangano fully attentive during that same performance of Mahler that he had attended with his fast-asleep date, but Ms. Mangano, an alto, had also appeared onstage that night at the Kennedy Center as part of the Master Chorale of Washington, to sing during the final movement. ROSALIE R. RADOMSKY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (87%); ENGINEERING (87%); MUSIC (86%); DATING SERVICES (86%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (85%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); MATHEMATICS (72%); CHILD CARE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); STEPPARENTS (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); COMPANY STRATEGY (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); MARKETING STRATEGY (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); PARAEDUCATORS (64%); ARMIES (52%)

COMPANY: GENERAL REINSURANCE CORP (69%); BRIGHT HORIZONS FAMILY SOLUTIONS INC (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

TICKER: BFAM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); NAICS624410 CHILD DAY CARE SERVICES (58%); SIC8351 CHILD DAY CARE SERVICES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010



353 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Where Canals Enhance a 'Sense of Place'

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

 BODY:
ROMANCE brought Theresa Matulich and Bill Bennett to Babylon Village. In the spring of 2007, on one of their first dates, Mr. Bennett of Deer Park took Ms. Matulich of Massapequa Park to dinner at Horace & Sylvia's Publick House, a bar and grill in the heart of this waterside village.
Mr. Bennett, 32, recalled that ''the majority of time we would go out, we went to Babylon,'' frequenting the pubs, restaurants and boutiques in this 2.2-square-mile marina-laden corner on the Great South Bay, on the South Shore of western Suffolk County. ''We liked the atmosphere of the village, being close to the water.''
As the couple, both teachers, were falling in love, they fell in love with the village -- its lakes, fingertip canals, creeks and marinas. So much so that the night after their wedding on July 31, they moved into a three-bedroom two-bath 1953 split level they had bought in March for $375,000. 
''Our heart was set on Babylon,'' Mrs. Bennett, 28, said, though she added that they had also looked at houses in Massapequa Park and West Islip. ''It felt more like home.'' Besides, the 58-by-136-foot plot on a tidy block in the Presidential neighborhood was larger than anything they could have afforded in Massapequa Park.
The village, which has been singled out by Vision Long Island, a ''smart growth'' group, for its walkability and ''sense of place,'' also offered a bayfront residents-only swimming pool, a nine-hole golf course, a fishing pond and about 480 boat slips. Further, the Bennetts could walk to the three-screen movie theater or meander around the 15-acre Argyle Lake, with its picturesque balustrades and waterfalls, or even quickly reach Fire Island beaches over the Robert Moses Causeway. Or, they could stroll to the Babylon train station and be in Manhattan in about an hour.
''For what we are getting,'' Mr. Bennett said, ''you can't beat it.''
Wayne Horsley, a Suffolk County legislator, grew up and still lives in the village, which has about 4,000 houses and 12,600 residents. He said that during the 1970s, because of the growth of big-box stores and malls, ''there were a lot of vacant properties'' downtown and the four grocery stores disappeared.
''The village pulled itself up by its own bootstraps,'' Mr. Horsley said. Now vacancies are few, though the supermarkets are still to be found in strip malls beyond the village. ''It has become a place for young people on weekends, and it has taken off.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
South of Sunrise Highway and North Babylon, the village has West Babylon and Route 109 on one flank, Route 231 and West Islip on the other. To the south is the Great South Bay.
Incorporated in 1893, it is set apart from neighbors in the town of Babylon by its waterways and its quaintness.
''You can tell when you come into the village'' from any of its 17 entrances, said Mayor Ralph Scordino.
There are the antique lampposts with hanging flower baskets, the barrel planters along brick sidewalks, the gardens and white picket fences gracing the railroad station parking lot and median strips. The crosswalks are painted green; the parking meters are blue.
In front of the village hall is a bronze statue of Robert Moses, the master planner of New York State parkways and parks, who was a resident.
It is unsurprising that tidiness rules a place Mr. Moses used to call home, but the extent of it is worth remarking. The main streets, the business district and the train station are swept every day, which keeps debris from the drainage system and therefore the bay, said Skip Gardner, the highway superintendent.
There are 34 restaurants tucked among the mom-and-pop stores in the business district along Main Street and Deer Park Avenue, as well as near the waterfront. Aside from a Subway and a Talbots, the village has largely tried to keep chains out.
One of the big differences between Babylon and its neighbors is ''the sense of a village'' rather than strip-mall sprawl, Mayor Scordino said.
Lining the fingertip canals south of Montauk Highway, with boat slips in their backyards, are pristine bungalows, expanded Capes and colonials.
The streets meander along Fosters Creek and Carll's River; mansions in Paradise Point have water vistas. Each of the 22 town houses in the Bridgeview at Babylon Cove community has a slip.
North of Montauk Highway, homes have tranquil views of tree-ringed Southard Pond, where fishing but not boating is allowed.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
In June, after 16 years in a three-bedroom two-bath early-1900s colonial on a street lined with towering oaks and maples in the Indian neighborhood, where streets are named for Native American tribes, Tim and Jenni McCaffrey quickly sold their renovated home for $599,000 and ''literally moved next door.'' They paid $740,000 for a larger Dutch colonial with a master bath, a large walk-in closet, a second-floor laundry room, a three-car detached garage and a 20-by-20-foot gazebo out back.
''We love it here,'' Mrs. McCaffrey said. ''The community is great.''
According to James A. Netter, the broker-owner of Netter Real Estate, the 110 homes for sale range from an unrenovated four-bedroom two-bath 1897 colonial, for $229,000, to a four-bedroom four-bath stone-and-stucco contemporary with two boat and two Jet Ski lifts, for $3.5 million. The average price of homes on the market in July was $520,495. ''There is a certain panache to living in the village,'' Mr. Netter said.
Georgia Westcott, the broker-owner of Westcott Group Realty, says handyman specials on the waterfront start in the mid $300,000s. Until the economy soured, the canal area was the most popular; now colonials and Victorians inland beckon. People are more mindful of the expense of ''upkeep on the waterfronts,'' which are ''not selling as quickly as they once were,'' she said.
Through July, 113 homes sold, with an average of 102 days on the market, at an average of $478,044. That is quicker but lower than for the same period in 2009, when 74 homes sold, in an average of 124 days at an average of $507,370.
There are also listings for 18 condominiums; of 17 rental units listed, prices range from $990 to $3,000 a month.
THE SCHOOLS
The Babylon School District serves 1,800 students in three schools: Babylon Junior-Senior High School for Grades 7 through 12; Babylon Elementary for kindergarten through second grade; and Babylon Memorial Grade School for Grades 3 through 6.
SAT averages in 2010 were 546 in reading, 534 in math and 538 in writing, versus 484, 499 and 478 statewide.
Ninety-five percent of the students live in the village. Others come from the barrier beaches of Oak Beach, Gilgo Beach, Captree Island, West Gilgo Beach and Robert Moses State Park.
WHAT TO DO
The Babylon Beautification Society Country Fair around Argyle Lake has been a September tradition for 35 years. It takes place Sunday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., with 280 craft booths. Residents volunteer to run stands selling hot dogs, hamburgers and roasted corn, as well as cheeses and jelly. With the proceeds, Babylonians will be out in force the Sunday after Thanksgiving, draping garlands, lights and bows on more than 500 antique street lamps. ''Each family gets a pole,'' said Donna Consola, the president of the Beautification Society.
Friday night football games at Babylon Junior-Senior High School attract hundreds of alumni, students and residents whose children have graduated. On weekends, those not plying the local waters shop at homespun boutiques like Bunger Surf Shop or wait in line at Glen's Dinette, a breakfast and lunch spot on East Main Street, for the Idaho home fries mixed with scallions and bacon, with melted cheddar cheese and two eggs, any style.
The bayfront pool charges residents $70 for a seasonal family membership.
THE COMMUTE
The elevated Babylon Village station is the last stop on the electrified portion of the Montauk branch, as well the end of the Babylon line of the Long Island Rail Road. The 8:03 a.m. peak direct train takes one hour and eight minutes to Pennsylvania Station. A monthly pass is $268.52 online. The station is a hub for Suffolk County Transit and M.T.A. Long Island buses. Babylon is about 30 miles from Midtown Manhattan via the Southern State Parkway, or an hour and a half in heavy traffic.
THE HISTORY
At the turn of the 19th century, a decorative iron drinking fountain was erected by the Women's Exchange, a charitable organization. Hit by a trolley about 17 years later, it was taken down and a flagpole mounted in its place. Recently, a similar fountain was found in Ligonier, Pa. A replica is being cast, said Dr. Christopher Proto, a chairman of the historic fountain reconstruction committee. It will be placed in front of the Village Historical Society on Main Street next year, but will not be used for drinking.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AQUATIC GARAGES: An assortment of expanded Capes, colonials and bungalows line the finger canals in Babylon Village
 each has its own backyard boat slip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MARINAS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); COUNTIES (75%); BEACHES (75%); LAKES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); GOLF (63%); MOVIE THEATERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



354 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 35A

LENGTH: 2536 words

HEADLINE: The Daley Legacy, Inescapable

BYLINE: By JIM KIRK, DAN MIHALOPOULOS, SARAH KARP, MICK DUMKE, DON TERRY, AND DAVID GREISING. 
Sarah Karp is deputy editor of Catalyst Chicago, an independent publication on urban education.

 BODY:
Trying to sum up the legacy of Mayor Richard M. Daley's more than two decades in office in one neat snapshot is impossible. Mr. Daley is as complicated as the city he oversees. He is quick to anger, surprising, emotional; exceedingly loyal to some and ruthlessly business-like to others; parochial, yet overly sensitive when criticized for it. While he was in office, great strides were made. Mr. Daley oversaw a city that transformed its economy, making Chicago the vibrant hub of the Midwest. He remade the city's front yard with Millennium Park, and showcased the city with a victory celebration after helping a Chicagoan win the highest office in the land. And he was ready to show it off on a global stage with an ambitious bid for the 2016 Summer Olympics. 
But there were also stunning setbacks. Moves like the middle-of-the-night takeover of Meigs Field solidified a reputation as a bully and autocrat. There was the humiliating Olympics loss -- elimination in the first round of the International Olympic Committee's voting process -- and the privatization missteps. Recent high-profile crime in otherwise-stable neighborhoods undermined the good news of relatively lower crime rates. And now he leaves a financial mess for his successor. Most assuredly, Mr. Daley's success as mayor will be debated for years. What follows is a look at his legacy in five areas -- politics, education, crime, race and business -- that will most likely frame Chicagoans' discussions about the eventful mayoralty of Richard M. Daley. JIM KIRK
Politics
As much as Mr. Daley blanched at being seen as a big-city boss, for more than two decades he was the only political game in town.
A week ago, the most influential figures in almost every community were those who had cozied up to the mayor. Crossing Mr. Daley, or even questioning him, was a certain path to the political fringe.
After Mr. Daley announced on Tuesday that he would step down next year, a city accustomed to the undisputed, paternalistic leader wondered where power would find its new center.
''There is not a structure of groups or individual players who are going to carry the day,'' said Greg Goldner, the mayor's 2003 campaign manager. ''There are so many different interests, whether personal or community, that I think things will remain very, very fractured for a little bit.''
Mr. Goldner and other political observers said the successful candidate must be a unifier like Mr. Daley, who enjoyed strong backing across a city where no racial group represents a majority.
The mayor showered grants on social programs run by religious leaders with large black congregations. Young professionals and empty nesters who moved back to Chicago appreciated the blossoming of newly trendy areas.
The Hispanic Democratic Organization, the largest cog in the rebuilt Chicago machine, funneled city jobs to a community that has grown to dominate vast swaths of the bungalow belt.
Business leaders cherished the stability of Mr. Daley's strongman rule so much that the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce once described City Hall as ''one-stop shopping'' for corporate Chicago.
Economic boom years also allowed the mayor to pay high wages to unionized city workers, many of whom owed their jobs to helping the mayor and his allies at election time.
The groups who are unlikely to be major players in the new order are almost all of the traditional Democratic ward organizations, which withered in the last 20 years as patronage jobs went mostly to members of pro-Daley campaign groups organized along racial lines.
''Whoever runs will have to figure out how to listen to and connect with small groups and small communities, piece by piece,'' Mr. Goldner said. ''The ward bosses, the unions, the business community, they can provide resources and add some credibility, but they won't be able to dictate the outcome.''
If the city's political course over the last 50 years -- besides the turbulent and more democratic 1980s -- is any guide, whoever wins the trust of voters could ultimately attract a huge coterie of yes-men from across the political spectrum and establish a new throne.
Given the city's dark financial outlook, though, it could be difficult for the next mayor to find the resources that Mr. Daley was able to use to keep everybody happy and unified. DAN MIHALOPOULOS
Crime
Mr. Daley can leave office pointing to crime rates far lower than when he was first elected. But Chicago remains a national leader in deadly violence, and some residents and officials are calling for revamping the police department.
In 1990, Mr. Daley's first full year in office, there were 854 murders in Chicago. On the West Side, where much of the violence was occurring, Alderman Ed Smith (28th Ward) said his constituents supported calling in the military to help restore peace.
The mayor rejected the idea and went on to advance his own anticrime agenda, based largely on gun control.
Chicago had banned handguns in 1982, but the mayor frequently called on state legislators and Congress to pass more antigun laws. When advocates of gun rights filed suit to challenge the city's handgun ordinance, Mr. Daley fought them all the way to the Supreme Court, which ruled in favor of the plaintiffs in June.
Despite the ban, the flow of weapons into the city never stopped. From January through mid-August of this year, the police seized 5,195 illegal guns.
Crime peaked nationally in the early 1990s, then began to drop, and Chicago was part of the trend. By 2009 there were 460 murders.
Even so, Chicago vies with New York and Los Angeles as the national homicide leader. And the intensity of Chicago's violence -- including the killings of three police officers this summer -- made headlines across the country.
Recent budget problems have brought about a thinning of police ranks. And some residents and aldermen say more officers should be assigned to high-crime neighborhoods, an idea that has long been a political nonstarter because it could mean pulling officers from middle-class areas.
Still, Alderman Smith said the streets were much safer than before Mr. Daley took office. ''The police department now is much more active,'' he said.
But the Rev. Marshall Hatch, a longtime activist on police issues, was less positive. ''I think the mayor has had some successes, even some great successes,'' he said, ''but certainly not when it comes to community-police relations.''
Earlier this year, two state legislators called on Mr. Daley to consider asking the National Guard to help the police in high-crime neighborhoods. He rejected the suggestion, as he had 20 years earlier. MICK DUMKE
Race
As a young man, Mr. Daley was a privileged prince of Bridgeport, the tough, white-ethnic South Side neighborhood that for decades produced Chicago's political power brokers. Until recently, few blacks dared venture there.
In the 1960s, a white mob rioted there when two black college students tried to move into an apartment down the street from the Bridgeport bungalow where Mr. Daley's father, Mayor Richard J. Daley, lived. Much of the rest of Chicago was also rigidly segregated, and Mr. Daley's father had few black or brown faces anywhere near his inner circle.
But since becoming mayor in 1989 and with scant initial black support, Mr. Daley has worked hard to honor his father's legacy yet be more racially enlightened. He has sprinkled his administration with loyalists who more closely reflect the city's population. ''Fast forward to the last election in 2007,'' said Andy Shaw, executive director of the Better Government Association. ''He got 70 percent of the black vote,'' despite low turnout.
''He cared. He tried,'' Mr. Shaw continued. ''His inner circle was and still is predominately old-guard Bridgeport, but there's been room to add people of color.''
In some ways, Mr. Daley had no choice. Harold Washington had led an unprecedented coalition of blacks, Hispanics and white liberals to become the city's first black mayor in 1983, defeating Mr. Daley.
''A diverse cabinet, more fairness in city contracts, this is a legacy Daley inherited from Harold Washington,'' said Maria de los Angeles Torres, director of the department of Latin American and Latino studies at the University of Illinois at Chicago. ''He could not go back on that.''
Mr. Daley continued the legacy of Mr. Washington in other areas as well, said Ms. Torres, who worked in the Washington administration. ''Mayor Daley created a city that is open to immigrants,'' she said. ''On that issue, I think Mayor Daley passes with flying colors.''
But Robert T. Starks, an associate professor of political science at Northeastern Illinois University, said Mr. Daley should get a failing grade in race relations. Mr. Daley has used Hispanics and immigrants to undermine black political aspirations, Mr. Starks said.
''What he did for his own political advancement was divide and conquer,'' Mr. Starks said. ''He embraced the Hispanic community as a buffer against African-Americans.''
Mr. Starks said Mr. Daley's campaign to tear down the public-housing towers that his father built ''has been a consistent project to run as many African-Americans out of the city as possible to maintain a white regime.''
Santita Jackson, a host on WVON, a radio station with a predominately black audience, said the overwhelming number of her callers believed that Mr. Daley had ignored the largely black South and West Sides.
''A lot of the black middle and upper class made peace with the mayor a long time ago,'' Ms. Jackson said. ''But for the masses of black people, his legacy is troubling. There's a disconnect between the haves and the have-nots.'' DON TERRY
Business
Mr. Daley has always had a you-push-me, I'll-pull-you relationship with Chicago's corporate community.
Civic leaders pushed an initially reluctant mayor into what became some of his boldest initiatives: The $15 billion expansion of O'Hare Airport and the bid for the 2016 Summer Olympic Games.
The mayor took his turn, too. He cajoled corporate leaders and other wealthy individuals into spending $475 million to turn a scar of unsightly railroad tracks into the downtown's dazzling front yard, Millennium Park.
The corporate chieftains lined up behind Mr. Daley in part because he had something they admired and even coveted: virtually unchallenged power and an ability to deliver on any handshake deal.
Chief executives can be overruled by corporate boards or held accountable to the stock market. But this particular mayor has lived for much of his 21-year tenure almost without check.
The voters? They returned him to office with up to 70 percent of the total ballots, a fact not lost on the corporate chieftains. The news media? In recent years, Mr. Daley chuckled as economic pressures thinned the ranks of City Hall reporters and weakened their oversight.
Ultimately, Mr. Daley's legacy will be decided not just by what he accomplished with all that power, but also by what troubles he left behind.
Civic boosters see an urban core that somehow continues to thrive during the recession. They admired the energy of the Olympics bid. They expect the O'Hare expansion to pay off. And they believe their companies and employees benefit from a public school system that has made measurable improvement.
Yet even Mr. Daley's biggest boosters cannot overlook fiscal issues that, to them, reflect on his shortcomings as a manager. As the bills come due, the red ink sloshing through city finances will wash away much of what was positive during the mayor's tenure.
Civic leaders know they will bear some of the costs from a pending $650 million budget shortfall. They know Mr. Daley has spent far too much of the proceeds from $3 billion worth of leases on the city's parking meters and the Skyway toll road. They see underfunding of worker pensions and a surge in gang violence that corrodes civic life.
Even as they hold Mr. Daley accountable, civic leaders also note that he has done better as mayor than most anyone else could have. R. Eden Martin, president of the Civic Committee of the Commercial Club of Chicago, said he wished Mr. Daley could have done more to solve the chronic underfunding of public pensions.
''He didn't fix the problem,'' Mr. Martin said. ''But then, I don't think anyone could have fixed it. I don't think Superman could have fixed it.''
They rue, too, the notion that Mr. Daley's successor, no matter how capable, will most likely never amass the power he wielded.
''That was built up over a long period of time and over a few tough fights,'' said Lester Crown, a businessman who led the effort to persuade Mr. Daley to expand O'Hare.
Does that matter? Mr. Crown thinks so. On the O'Hare project, after resisting at first, Mr. Daley ultimately pushed a far more ambitious plan than Mr. Crown and others had proposed.
''The things he went after, he went after full tilt,'' Mr. Crown said.
And Mr. Daley had the ability to tilt most of Chicago in the direction he was pushing. DAVID GREISING
Education
Mr. Daley took control of the city's 600 public schools in 1995, after they had been labeled ''worst in the nation'' in the late 1980s by a former United States secretary of education. Most parents who could do so got their child out of the system.
Over the next 15 years, the mayor invested his emotional and political capital in improving the schools. At news conferences heralding educational accomplishments, he often became red-faced when challenged, passionately defending his programs.
''It has been my first priority,'' Mr. Daley said Thursday at a ribbon-cutting ceremony at Calmeca Academy of Fine Arts & Dual Language on the Southwest Side.
Calmeca Academy is one of 24 schools built under the $1 billion Modern Schools program, one of the mayor's two signature education initiatives.
The other is Renaissance 2010, under which he closed failing schools and opened new ones. Most of the Renaissance schools are charters, public schools run by private organizations. He encouraged the city's business elite to donate to and become involved in individual schools, raising millions of dollars.
Yet Mr. Daley will leave much to be done. Test scores and other measures of academic progress have improved but remain below state and national averages. Critics point to research showing that students at many of the Renaissance schools do not perform significantly better than similar students at traditional schools, and students displaced by school closings often land at low-performing schools.
Advocates of reform say Mr. Daley has been too quick to embrace flashy programs and unwilling to put time and effort into forging community support for schools.
An important feature of school-reform legislation was the creation of local school councils -- boards of parents, teachers and community members -- which were intended to shift some major decisions about educational policy from central administrators to each school's key constituents. But Mr. Daley has diminished the councils' role, saying their most important decisions -- hiring and firing principals -- should be taken away. SARAH KARP
They were stunned last year when the city was eliminated in the first round of voting in Copenhagen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) (A35B)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Richard M. Daley, who spoke to reporters Wednesday, has put his stamp on Chicago. Visits to schools, including one in 1997, lower left, have highlighted his interest in education. Another priority has been cracking down on guns. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE
CHARLES BENNETT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A35A)
 Chicago officials and residents thought they had an excellent chance to be chosen to host the 2016 Summer Olympics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); OLYMPICS (73%); RACE & RACISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); CRIME RATES (71%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); EMPTY NESTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



355 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3501 words

HEADLINE: The Loneliest Analyst

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Lutz, Fla.
RICHARD X. BOVE is a bank analyst who likes to take what he calls ''extreme positions.'' He occasionally moves the stock market, which has earned him a certain amount of prestige and notoriety -- but has also gotten him fired several times.
One recent Tuesday morning, for instance, Mr. Bove opined from his bright-orange home office, in this town just north of Tampa, that new government rules would curb mortgage profits and, therefore, bank profits, too.
It wasn't a particularly extreme pronouncement, by Bove standards. Yet shares of Wells Fargo, the nation's largest mortgage lender, started to drop, and his phone lighted up. 
''That's what makes the game fun, right?'' he says.
But for the last two years, Mr. Bove has been engaged in a lonely legal battle to retain his ability to say whatever he likes, an ordeal that he says has been anything but fun. BankAtlantic, a Florida bank, sued him, accusing him of defamation after he wrote a report about the banking industry in July 2008, just as the financial crisis was starting to boil over. The bank contended that the report falsely suggested that the institution was in trouble.
The case was settled three months ago , and Mr. Bove didn't pay a dime to BankAtlantic. Still, it was hardly a resounding victory for Mr. Bove or, for that matter, freedom of speech on Wall Street, where some say the need for independent, probing voices has never been more apparent.
Although Mr. Bove is among the best-known analysts on Wall Street, most of his colleagues deserted him after BankAtlantic filed its suit. None of the professional associations that represent analysts or the securities industry rallied to his side, and his employer ultimately abandoned him. And Mr. Bove, 69, is stuck with nearly $800,000 in legal fees.
''Even though from a legal standing I won, from a real-world point of view I lost big,'' he says.
The Bove report that led to the lawsuit, titled ''Who Is Next?,'' ranked 107 bank companies from riskiest to least risky, using two financial ratios as benchmarks on two lists. BankAtlantic Bancorp, the publicly traded holding company that controls BankAtlantic, was ranked 10th on one list, 12th on the other.
Alan B. Levan, the chairman and C.E.O. of BankAtlantic Bancorp, has often clashed with disgruntled investors and critics in his 40-year career in Florida real estate and banking. He says he filed his suit against Mr. Bove to protect his bank's reputation.
''In the last three years, every business in America has been under extreme pressure because of the economy,'' says Mr. Levan, 65. ''In that kind of a scenario, when rumors begin that are inaccurate or portray a business in a light that is not true, then, in times of stress, companies need to correct those misconceptions immediately because otherwise it can become quite dangerous.''
As it turns out, however, Mr. Bove's rankings have proved to be largely correct. On the first set of rankings, 8 out of the 20 companies he said were most at risk have failed, and most of the others' stock prices have spiraled downward and remain low. On the second list of rankings, 9 of the top 20 banks are gone.
BankAtlantic Bancorp's stock trades at just under $1, down from its record high of $100 at the end of 2004. The company continues to struggle under the weight of its huge Florida real estate holdings, and some analysts say tighter banking regulations will only add to financial pressure at the company.
Maclovio Pina, a banking analyst at Morningstar, says BankAtlantic is likely to continue to struggle. ''It's a murky future, in our view,'' he says.
While it is not unusual for bank executives to grumble about analysts, it's highly unusual for them to sue. For one thing, many lawyers believe that it is hard to successfully sue someone over his or her opinions. It's also a challenge to prove that a report from a single analyst actually hurt a company's business.
But the BankAtlantic suit, closely watched in the banking industry, seemed to capture the angst that many bank leaders felt in 2008, when even some of the most venerable institutions faced the precipice.
Mr. Levan was not the only bank executive to blame others as his company's stock tanked. A chorus of banking chiefs at the likes of Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley publicly blamed skeptics and investors betting against them as the reason their shares fell.
Few banking executives, however, have pushed their complaints as far as Mr. Levan.
IF Mr. Levan is sensitive about his bank, it may be because he built it from a sleepy savings and loan into Florida's second-largest bank, behind BankUnited. He controls the bank and the holding company along with a small group of associates, including his son, Jarett Levan, who was named chief executive of the bank in 2007.
The ownership structure is complex: Alan Levan and his associates control a company called BFC Financial, which owns shares in BankAtlantic Bancorp, the company that, in turn, owns BankAtlantic. Mr. Levan and his associates control BFC and BankAtlantic through special classes of voting shares.
''We don't like different classes of shares,'' says Paul Hodgson, senior research associate at the Corporate Library, which monitors corporate governance practices. ''We don't think they are good for public shareholders, and our reasoning behind that is that it's too easy for the controlling shareholder to run the company for their financial benefit rather than the benefit of public shareholders.''
Mr. Levan says that he doesn't agree with such criticisms. His company's stock structure has allowed him to remain independent while many other Florida banks have been absorbed by out-of-state banks or gone out of business. He notes that the stock structure is similar to that of The New York Times Company.
Mr. Levan moved to Florida after a brief stint on Wall Street and started in the real estate business. In the mid-1980s, he entered banking by buying up shares of BankAtlantic, then the Atlantic Federal Savings and Loan Bank. By 1987, he was running the place.
As C.E.O., Mr. Levan oversaw 20 years of expansion. He rebranded BankAtlantic as ''Florida's most convenient bank,'' keeping branches open on weekends. The bank's strong branch network is one of the company's best assets, analysts say, providing it with a stable source of funding.
Along the way, Mr. Levan has often gone to great lengths to protect his bank's fortunes and his own reputation.
In the 1980s, for example, after several quarters of losses, BankAtlantic was in such dire straits that Mr. Levan had to scramble financially to keep it afloat, according to court documents.
Mr. Levan, who was running partnerships that invested in Florida real estate, persuaded thousands of small investors in his deals to swap their stakes for debt in BFC. He then turned around and sold that real estate, giving him money to bolster BankAtlantic's finances, court records show.
Some of the investors later sued Mr. Levan, arguing that they had been cheated. A judge in a related case supported that view, writing that the transactions were a deal that ''a person even mildly familiar with investments would conclude was unfair.''
ABC News broadcast a critical report on Mr. Levan's real estate deals, and he sued the network, accusing it of slander. ABC ultimately won, after the Supreme Court declined to hear the case.
More recently, as BankAtlantic's loan portfolio was battered in the recession, Mr. Levan took several steps to shore up the bank's finances and to appease regulators, including an announcement this month that the bank was seeking to raise $125 million in capital.
He has also shifted troubled assets from BankAtlantic to its holding company. Because regulators don't require the holding company to be as financially sound as BankAtlantic, the maneuver appeased regulators while shifting the burden to the holding company.
In 2008, Mr. Levan sold $101.5 million of distressed commercial loans from the bank to the holding company for 93.5 cents on the dollar. Since then, the loans have lost half their value, but the transfer prevented that downturn from more seriously undermining BankAtlantic.
Legislators and regulators, as part of the recent financial overhaul, are planning new regulations that would require holding companies, as well as their subsidiaries, to be more financially sound.
As his career ascended, Mr. Levan was in the news over a personal matter. In 1988, three gun-toting thieves broke into his Coral Gables home, kidnapped his first wife and their daughter and demanded nearly a quarter of a million dollars in ransom. Mr. Levan paid the kidnappers, and his family was later found unharmed in the trunk of their Mercedes-Benz, according to The Miami Herald.
A former colleague at BankAtlantic says that while Mr. Levan has a friendly, slow-talking demeanor, he is fast to size up situations and always ready to jump into combat. He doesn't respond well to criticism and has a tendency to continue battles for too long, says this person, who requested anonymity because he didn't want to alienate Mr. Levan.
Mr. Levan disputes that observation. ''If anything has become clear from recent events, it is that we have encouraged and tolerated dissenting views almost to a fault,'' he says. ''We survived the last banking crisis, when giants failed, by being flexible in our approach to complex issues and ahead of the curve.''
MR. BOVE, who grew up in New York City, is a bit of an anomaly among bank analysts. He is twice as old as many of his competitors and relishes talking to the news media; many others aren't allowed to make such appearances or do so only grudgingly. And he works out of his home for a small securities firm, with grandchildren and dogs cavorting outside his door, rather than at a big bank in Manhattan.
He has been covering banking for about three decades, even as many of his contemporaries have moved on to careers in money management and other more lucrative work. ''For some reason I really like what I do, and I just don't want to do anything else,'' he says.
Even in the midst of the BankAtlantic litigation, Mr. Bove continued to crank out at least one report a day and sometimes as many as five. He says he tries to capture the big picture rather than focus on the granular financial details found in earnings statements.
''What's the reason to pay me to be the 14th guy to tell you what is going to happen in the second quarter at Citigroup?'' he says. ''There's just no utility for a guy at a boutique that operates pretty much on his own to replicate the work of other analysts.''
A high point in Mr. Bove's career came in 2005. That August, he issued an eight-page report titled ''This Powder Keg Is Going to Blow.'' He argued that loose lending standards had created the housing bubble and that it was going to come to an abrupt and painful end.
''When I wrote that, people thought I was nuts,'' he recalls. ''Now if I would have stayed with that until 2008, I'd be America's hero.''
After correctly parsing the looming banking crisis, Mr. Bove felt that by the spring of 2008, the worst had passed. He made a major blunder by encouraging investors to buy up bank stocks at the time and remained bullish through the summer, when he released ''Who Is Next?'' Bank shares collapsed months later, before rallying again in 2009.
Even as he has bounced from one firm to another, he has maintained a healthy list of clients. Banks and mutual funds are his biggest clients, followed by hedge funds, he says.
Some bank executives who have known Mr. Bove over the years hold him in high regard.
''We certainly haven't always agreed with his assessments,'' says John A. Allison IV, the former chief executive of BB&T, the major regional bank based in Winston-Salem, N.C. ''My experience was that he gave a very thoughtful overview. I would rate him highly.''
Mr. Bove has his share of detractors, too, who criticize him for ubiquitous media appearances and a predilection for changing his views too quickly. Several suggest that Mr. Bove is inconsistent, making a brilliant insight one week, a mediocre one the next.
But Andy Kessler, a former Wall Street analyst, says it's common for analysts to change their style to cater to their clients. ''If your clients are mostly hedge funds, you're going to give lots of short-term analysis,'' he says.
Mr. Bove moved with his wife, Christel, who is blind from multiple sclerosis, and their seven children to Florida from New York in 1994. It was after that when he says he encountered Mr. Levan, in a series of meetings in the late 1990s. Mr. Bove recalls Mr. Levan being upbeat about BankAtlantic's prospects.
''I don't remember ever having a contentious or negative meeting with BankAtlantic,'' says Mr. Bove. As for Mr. Levan: ''He was a very personable individual. He was friendly. He was open. I thought he answered the questions in a very frank manner.''
THE oddity of the BankAtlantic lawsuit, Mr. Bove says, is that he was actually trying to show that he was more bullish on banks than other analysts, which turned out to be a mistake, given the financial crisis that followed. The subtitle of ''Who Is Next?,'' in fact, is ''Not as Many Candidates as One Would Think.''
After the report was filed, it took just eight days for BankAtlantic to file its lawsuit. Mr. Levan said in a statement at the time: ''If there is anyone who knows 'Who Is Next?,' it would be the folks at the F.D.I.C., with mountains of detailed financial information about every institution enjoying deposit insurance. They, however, keep what they know to themselves -- for good reason.''
The bank wanted Mr. Bove to correct his report, which had ranked the holding company, not BankAtlantic itself. Mr. Levan argues that the media misinterpreted the report and reported that the bank, rather than the holding company, was in trouble. The distinction is important, he said, because the bank has remained well capitalized. Those capital levels kept regulators happy, even as some analysts questioned the health of the holding company.
To a certain extent, Mr. Levan is simply splitting hairs: it's the holding company that is publicly traded, and its assets are almost entirely made up of BankAtlantic assets, so the fortunes of the two entities are tightly linked.
Mr. Bove said that if he hadn't fought the lawsuit, he and other analysts would find their work and careers undermined by constant flurries of suits.
''I'm trying to protect my ability to do my job,'' he says. ''Any company could direct my research if I had allowed this to go through.''
Still, other than a few pundits, no one stepped forward to help him, Mr. Bove says. Several associations that represent stock analysts or the securities industry declined Mr. Bove's requests to help him pay his legal bills, he says. Those groups -- the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association; the New York Society of Security Analysts; and the CFA Institute -- declined to comment.
Mr. Bove's former employer, the investment bank Ladenburg Thalmann, chose to settle its end of the case by paying BankAtlantic $350,000, without admitting to any wrongdoing, and leaving Mr. Bove to defend himself; he said he quit the firm in February because of disagreements over the lawsuit. He now works for Rochdale Securities.
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, an independent securities watchdog, started an investigation of Mr. Bove in 2008, demanding his records on BankAtlantic and questioning him for half a day. He was never penalized.
Ladenburg declined comment, as did the authority, which also declined to say why it began its investigation of him.
John C. Coffee Jr., a law professor at Columbia University, likens Mr. Bove to a news reporter who is sued over an article. But, he says, the press typically rallies around reporters whose First Amendment rights are challenged, while securities analysts are a much less cohesive group.
Nonetheless, Mr. Coffee says the stakes in the Bove case were high because a negative outcome could ''chill free and robust debate.''
''Anyone who is forced to settle in a case like that increases the chances that a combative C.E.O. will sue the next analyst who challenges him,'' Mr. Coffee adds.
As part of his lawsuit against Mr. Bove, Mr. Levan maintained that BankAtlantic was financially healthy. While it is true that BankAtlantic has met its regulator's financial requirements, the holding company, which has absorbed a large chunk of BankAtlantic's troubled assets, has lost money for the last 12 quarters. And it was the holding company that Mr. Bove was ranking, not the bank subsidiary housed inside of it.
Although Mr. Levan said in an interview that his bank didn't apply for federal bailout money during the financial crisis, the bank's own financial filings show that it did apply. Asked about this, Mr. Levan sent an e-mail clarifying the matter: ''We filed an application to keep our options open but withdrew it prior to the time it was acted upon. At no time did we ever make a determination to accept federal monies.''
In February this year, Mr. Levan approached some of BankAtlantic's debt holders and asked them to sell their securities back to the bank for 20 cents on the dollar. Investors balked, led by a New York hedge fund called Hildene Capital Management.
''In light of BankAtlantic's protests of any criticism of its performance, its current proposal seems out of step with its fanatical defense of its financial condition,'' wrote John Scannell, chief operating officer of Hildene, in a February letter. ''For example, BankAtlantic seemed so concerned with any implication that it was experiencing distress, it sued noted banking analyst Dick Bove in 2008.''
Instead of asking the debt holders to accept a discount, Mr. Scannell says he suggested that Mr. Levan and his son take big pay cuts. Mr. Levan says he doesn't recall details of his conversations with Hildene, but says the firm didn't influence his decision to ultimately give up on the debt exchange offer.
Last month, a federal judge in a shareholder lawsuit against BankAtlantic's holding company questioned Mr. Levan's integrity, ruling that Mr. Levan had made false statements in 2007 about the extent of bad loans. The plaintiffs argue that Mr. Levan did so intentionally in order to artificially bolster the stock price.
Mr. Levan denies that accusation and doesn't agree with the judge's assessment, either, but on Thursday the judge turned down Mr. Levan's request to reconsider the matter. The case is pending.
Mr. Levan, meanwhile, is dueling with investors of other companies in which his company owns stakes -- Benihana, the restaurant chain, and Woodbridge Holdings, formerly known as the Levitt Corporation, the home builder famous for building Levittown on Long Island.
BankAtlantic entered into settlement talks with Mr. Bove in his case in March. In the case, Mr. Levan said Mr. Bove's report had damaged the bank's reputation.
But ''at the end of the day, that may not have been a strong case for them,'' says Thomas F. Holt Jr., a lawyer for Mr. Bove. If the case had gone to court, Mr. Holt said, he planned to counter BankAtlantic's argument by putting the bank's reputation on trial.
Mr. Levan disagrees with that assessment. ''There was nothing Mr. Holt said he was going to say or do that had any bearing on our view of the case against Mr. Bove,'' he says.
MR. LEVAN says he and BankAtlantic got exactly what they wanted out of the lawsuit against Mr. Bove. As part of the settlement, Mr. Bove issued a statement reiterating that his rankings didn't include BankAtlantic. (But they did include its holding company.)
Yet Mr. Levan may not have won everything he sought. For one, he said the bank did not sue Mr. Bove for money; however, e-mails from BankAtlantic's lawyer show that the company sought as much as $650,000 from the analyst. In addition, BankAtlantic had sought a much more strongly worded statement than Mr. Bove ultimately issued, the e-mails show.
Regardless, Mr. Levan remains upbeat about his bank. He and his son rang the bell at the New York Stock Exchange last month, and Mr. Levan contends that his company is ''a fantastic banking story of a bank that really did extremely well in this recession.''
Mr. Bove, meanwhile, says his feud with Mr. Levan was mostly dispiriting. He's particularly frustrated with government regulators, whom he believes ignored red flags at BankAtlantic for years.
As he continues to churn out opinions about bank stocks, Mr. Bove says he has no intention of opining on BankAtlantic Bancorp again. Nothing personal, he says, but the banking company is simply too small to interest his clients.
''It's a purely economic decision,'' he says.
Correction: September 19, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption last Sunday with an article about the bank analyst Richard X. Bove omitted the photographer's credit. The picture, of Mr. Bove, was by Melissa Lyttle for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BankAtlantic accused Richard Bove, a bank analyst, of defamation after he wrote a critical report. He received little support from his peers in the industry before the suit was settled. (BU1)
Alan Levan, center, leads BankAtlantic's holding company, while his son, Jarett, right, is the bank's C.E.O. Executives often complain about an industry analyst's critical report, but few have gone as far as Alan Levan and sued. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALSO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Richard Bove in his home office in Lutz, Fla. He said his defense left him with nearly $800,000 in legal fees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIPPE DIEDERICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)( BU9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); LITIGATION (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); STANDING TO SUE (63%)

COMPANY: BBX CAPITAL CORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

TICKER: BBX (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010



356 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JAY LENO
Tomorrow in Cleveland, President Obama will be laying out a new economic plan. You know what that means? Apparently we had an old economic plan. 
According to CNN, more and more children are now attending virtual schools online. Isn't that unbelievable? Which is perfect for today's economy. You go to virtual school, you get a virtual education, and when you graduate, it's virtually impossible to find a job.
DAVID LETTERMAN
This is the guy down in Florida. He's got himself a church down there and he's going to have the big Koran burning. And when former Alaska governor Sarah Palin heard about it she says ''This is insensitive and an unnecessary provocation.'' Sounds to me like somebody bought a dictionary.
President Obama, listen to this, proposed a $50 billion job bailout. He wants to rebuild roads, $50 billion. Rebuild roads, going to rebuild runways, going to be rebuilding railway lines. Going to be rebuilding his presidency.
CRAIG FERGUSON
You know, the Department of Labor has launched a new Web site to help unemployed Americans. President Obama said the Web site is amazing. And he can't wait to test it out in a couple of years.
Correction: September 19, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A roundup of the week's laugh lines last Sunday misattributed a joke about Sarah Palin's use of the words ''insensitive'' and ''provocation.'' It was by David Letterman, not Jay Leno.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Jim Morin: The Miami Herald, King Features Syndicate
Pat Bagley: The Salt Lake Tribune, Cagle Cartoons
Jimmy Margulies: The Record (Hackensack, N.J.), King Features Syndicate
 Mike Luckovich: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Creators Syndicate 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (68%); WEB SITES (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JAY LENO (79%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010



357 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
A JAPANESE POWER BROKER
Seeks to Lead the Nation
Ichiro Ozawa, the former head of Japan's Democratic Party and its widely acknowledged power broker, announced that he would challenge the current prime minister, Naoto Kan, to become the party's president, and thus the prime minister. But his bid was greeted with surprise and even incredulity by many in Japan, where he has been portrayed in the major news media as a corrupt figure. Page 8
VIOLENT PROTESTS IN KASHMIR 
Thousands of demonstrators staged a protest in Kashmir, setting fire to a police office and other government buildings in the latest outburst after three months of Muslim protests against Indian rule. Page 10
TALK OF KOREAN REUNIONS
In a surprise gesture of reconciliation that could ease tensions on the divided Korean Peninsula, North Korea proposed to South Korea that they arrange reunions of families separated by a war six decades ago. Page 12
CHINA'S RISING PRICES
Consumers and executives alike in China are trying to cope with inflation. Prices are rising for reasons that many Americans or Europeans might envy: The economy is growing, stores are full and banks are lending lots of money. PAGE 12
National
AN UNEASY ROLE REVERSAL
At an Atlanta Theater
Joe Patten, 83, has become the subject of citywide debate in Atlanta. He is the only person who lives at the Fox Theater, the city's most famous and revered performing arts site, where he once worked as an electrician and technical director. But fearing that his health is deteriorating, the theater's board of directors has encouraged Mr. Patten to move out eventually, possibly to a nursing home. The debate has struck a nerve in Atlanta, particularly among people who are involved in the theater and in caring for the elderly. PAGE 22
OPPOSITION TO TAX PROVISION
Many Democrats have joined Republicans in pushing for the repeal of a tax provision in the new health care law that imposes a huge information-reporting burden on small businesses. PAGE 25
Metropolitan
AT FLUSHING MEADOWS,
Back to the Melting Pot
After the U.S. Open men's final on Sunday, the television trucks will hit the road, along with the fans and unaccented English. They are, as Corey Kilgannon writes, the foreigners in Flushing Meadows, a haven for immigrants who favor soccer and cricket over tennis. PAGE 4
Sports
TENNIS CLIPS ONLINE USED
For Scouting and Laughs
In a world of proliferating information, more tennis footage is available by the day on Web sites like YouTube. Players, particularly younger players, are taking advantage to scout opponents, study new techniques and, of course, have a laugh. PAGE 9
A GREEN U.S. TEAM
The light resumes of crucial players represented one of the biggest problems for Team USA as it tried to win its first world championship since 1994. PAGE 3
THE A.F.L.'S LEGACY
On the 50th anniversary of the first A.F.L. weekend, it is worth considering how different the pro football landscape would be if the upstart league had never been formed, writes Dave Anderson in Sports of The Times. PAGE 4
Obituaries
LUCIUS WALKER, 80
He was a Baptist minister who gained national attention with calls for reparations for the descendants of slaves and with repeated violations of the United States embargo against Cuba through caravans of humanitarian aid. PAGE 32
Sunday Business
DEVELOPERS, AT LEAST,
Can Love This Fee
Buyers looking to venture into the housing market might be wise to check the fine print because a growing number of developers have been slipping ''resale fee'' covenants into sales agreements. Page 1
HOUSING NEEDS BOLD IDEAS
Only now, after it has become all too clear that the government's feeble efforts to ''help'' troubled homeowners have failed, are people considering more substantive approaches to tackling the mortgage and real estate mess. Fair Game by Gretchen Morgenson. Page 1
Arts & Leisure
A WEB SLINGER POISED
Until a few months ago, Reeve Carney was the front man for the Los Angeles-based band Carney. Now he finds himself at lofty heights, as the title character in the new Broadway show ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark.'' Page 10
A 'MONSTER' LYRICIST
Over the last two years no rapper has stretched the boundaries more than Nicki Minaj, writes Jon Caramanica. It is no small testament to that skill that her verse in the newly released ''Monster,'' featuring both Jay-Z and Kanye West, outdid both the rap luminaries. Page 58
Magazine
GLEEFUL!
The making of the best seriocomic musical dance fest spectacular on television. Page 40
WAR GAMES
What does it mean that the most popular cultural depictions of America's current wars happen to be video games? Page 62
T Style
VIEWS OF YOUNG LIFE,
Still Valid Today
After 50 years, Bruce Davidson's photos still hit home. In 1959 he spent 11 months taking photos of members of the Brooklyn street gang, The Jokers. It was one of the first immersive looks at an American youth sub-culture. Page 86
Book Review
CODE WORLD
There are many stories Tom McCarthy chooses not to fully tell in ''C,'' his tour de force novel encompassing the short life of one Serge Carrefax, born at the turn of the 20th century on a rural English estate. But these dramas are suggested, their shadowy outlines ignored, sublimated or flat-out denied by those involved. Page 1
Sunday Styles
THE REBEL
Meghan McCain -- activist, author, blogger -- may have a political career ahead of her, but she is hardly the person her mother once described as ''John McCain in a dress.'' Page 1
Week in Review
AS TIME PASSES,
The Goals Shrink
It seems that American goals in Afghanistan are becoming narrower and narrower, with time dwindling before a military withdrawal is to begin next year, and frustration is mounting at the war's costs and at rampant corruption in the Karzai government. Page 1
Editorial
NEW MEDICAL TREATMENTS
Without curtailing the use of unnecessary and overly costly new technologies and surgical procedures, there is little hope of restraining the relentless rise in health care costs. Week in Review, Page 10
FRANK RICH
The Democrats' midterm obituaries may prove premature if President Obama can channel voters' anger as F.D.R. did. Week in Review, Page 11
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Bravo to those religious leaders who are fighting the anti-Islam frenzy. Week in Review, Page 13
MAUREEN DOWD
President Obama campaigned on a promise of change. Republicans and independents who voted for him are still waiting for it. Week in Review, Page 12
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
Who's No. 1? With leaders who can't ask the people to make some sacrifices and an education system that's slipping, it isn't the United States. Week in Review, Page 11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); THEATER (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TENNIS (85%); SPORTS (85%); IMMIGRATION (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RIOTS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); FILM (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); NURSING HOMES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (64%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (63%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); AGING (63%); SOCCER (60%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (92%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



358 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JAY LENO
Tomorrow in Cleveland, President Obama will be laying out a new economic plan. You know what that means? Apparently we had an old economic plan. 
According to CNN, more and more children are now attending virtual schools online. Isn't that unbelievable? Which is perfect for today's economy. You go to virtual school, you get a virtual education, and when you graduate, it's virtually impossible to find a job.
DAVID LETTERMAN
This is the guy down in Florida. He's got himself a church down there and he's going to have the big Koran burning. And when former Alaska governor Sarah Palin heard about it she says ''This is insensitive and an unnecessary provocation.'' Sounds to me like somebody bought a dictionary.
President Obama, listen to this, proposed a $50 billion job bailout. He wants to rebuild roads, $50 billion. Rebuild roads, going to rebuild runways, going to be rebuilding railway lines. Going to be rebuilding his presidency.
CRAIG FERGUSON
You know, the Department of Labor has launched a new Web site to help unemployed Americans. President Obama said the Web site is amazing. And he can't wait to test it out in a couple of years.
Correction: September 19, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A roundup of the week's laugh lines last Sunday misattributed a joke about Sarah Palin's use of the words ''insensitive'' and ''provocation.'' It was by David Letterman, not Jay Leno.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Jim Morin: The Miami Herald, King Features Syndicate
Pat Bagley: The Salt Lake Tribune, Cagle Cartoons
Jimmy Margulies: The Record (Hackensack, N.J.), King Features Syndicate
 Mike Luckovich: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Creators Syndicate 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (68%); WEB SITES (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JAY LENO (79%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010



359 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (MTV) 2010 MTV VIDEO MUSIC AWARDSThe bawdy comedian Chelsea Handler replaces Russell Brand as the host of this ceremony -- the first woman in the role since Roseanne Barr in 1994 -- broadcast live from the Nokia Theater in Los Angeles and featuring performances by Usher, B.o.B., Drake, Mary J. Blige, Paramore and last year's notorious scene stealer, Kanye West. Cher, Ellen DeGeneres, Jane Lynch, Justin Timberlake and Katy Perry are among the presenters. Competing for the Moonman statuettes are Lady Gaga, who leads the nominations with 13; Eminem, above, who comes in second with eight; Florence + the Machine and B.o.B., who have each received five; and Kesha, who has three. She joins Justin Bieber, Jason Derulo, Nicki Minaj and Broken Bells in the best new artist category; voting will continue throughout the show until shortly before the award's announcement. White-carpet coverage begins at 8; ''World of Jenks,'' in which the documentarian Andrew Jenks moves in with his subjects, the better to film a slice of their lives, has a sneak peek at 11. His first subject: Maino, a rapper and former convict. 
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR Ms. Amanpour interviews Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf about the progress of the planned Muslim community center near ground zero. Austan D. Goolsbee, who was recently named chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, discusses the Obama administration's desire to let tax cuts expire for upper-income Americans here and on ''Fox News Sunday'' at 10.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The topic is ''Is America Anti-Muslim?'' Representative John A. Boehner, the House Republican leader, offers his opinion.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESSRudolph W. Giuliani talks about the anniversary of 9/11.
8 P.M. (HGTV) LIEN ON ME Mike Holmes, a renovation expert, helps a couple whose contractor walked off the job and put a $500,000 lien on their home after they refused to honor his demands for money in addition to his $200,000 estimate. In the conclusion of this two-part special, Mr. Holmes and his crew finish rebuilding the house from the foundation up. In ''All American Handyman,'' at 9, the contestants are divided into four teams of two and challenged to finish a mock living room with drywall, trim, paint, flooring materials and a plasma television. After two contestants are eliminated, the remaining six must hang a door and build a shelf over a washer and dryer. And then there are five.
9:30 P.M. (49); 10 P.M. (13) INSPECTOR LEWIS, SERIES III: DARK MATTER When the Master of Gresham College, an amateur stargazer, is found dead at the foot of the stairs to the Oxford observatory, Lewis (Kevin Whately, above) and Hathaway (Laurence Fox) are led to the writings of a 17th-century astronomer and a contemporary circle of oddball scientists and musicians in this ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' presentation. Then there's the issue of the deceased's obsession with Venus, and with sex.
9 P.M. (AMC) RUBICON Miles (Dallas Roberts) and Tanya (Lauren Hodges) monitor the interrogation of a Qaeda member on behalf of the C.I.A. Will (James Badge Dale) continues his investigation into Atlas MacDowell and the company's link to the suicides of Gerald Bradley and Tom Rhumor. In ''Mad Men,'' at 10, Peggy (Elisabeth Moss) and Joan (Christina Hendricks) endure some office high jinks.
9 P.M. (HBO) TRUE BLOOD A triple bill of season finales begins as Eric (Alexander Skarsgard) has a pang of conscience while plotting his revenge against Russell (Denis O'Hare), and Sookie (Anna Paquin), fed up with being ''vampire crack,'' considers life without Bill (Stephen Moyer) -- or any bloodsucker. In ''Hung,'' at 10, Ray (Thomas Jane) ponders giving up his side job for a second chance with Jessica (Anne Heche), if only Lenore (Rebecca Creskoff) were willing to let him go. Tanya (Jane Adams) tries to make amends with Frances (Roxanne Hart). And Ronnie (Eddie Jemison), after a bit of manhandling by Mindy (Amy Farrington), returns home to discover that Jessica has made a decision for both of them. ''Entourage,'' at 10:30, finds Ari (Jeremy Piven) struggling to greenlight his surprise party for Mrs. Ari (Perrey Reeves) as she seethes about his violent outburst the night before. Meanwhile, the guys plan an intervention for Vince (Adrian Grenier), who is about to self-destruct. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); RAP MUSIC (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); FLOORING (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); STRIKES (62%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (50%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: JUSTIN BIEBER (79%); CHELSEA HANDLER (73%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (73%); ELLEN DEGENERES (58%); LADY GAGA (58%); KANYE WEST (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (50%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



360 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Seeing a Tilt in Sunday Talk

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
It is a perennial complaint about American television news: that the guests on the Sunday morning public affairs programs are not representative of the country's diversity.
A new study says the guest bookings do not represent the population of Congress, either. 
''In 2009 the talk shows told us (by their selection of Congressional guests) that the people who matter are disproportionately white, male, senior and Republican - disproportionate not just when compared to the American population overall, but also when compared to the population of Congress itself,'' concluded a study published this month in The Green Bag, a quarterly journal supported by the George Mason University School of Law.
The study, of the five network Sunday shows from February to December 2009, found that while 14.6 percent of members of Congress were minorities, just 2.5 percent of the Congressional TV guests were minorities; and that while 16.9 percent of members were female, 13.5 percent of the guests were female.
The study also singled out ''the 49 white, male U.S. senators in office six-plus years'' who represented 9.2 percent of the Congressional populace, but 61.4 percent of the TV guests.
Do the bookings perpetuate the underrepresentation of certain groups? The Women & Politics Institute at American University highlighted similar findings about bookings of women earlier this year.
Producers of Sunday shows say they work hard to book a wide array of guests, including many who are not members of Congress. ''We are committed to having a diverse group of voices on the program whose opinions and expertise reflect the cultural, economic and political landscape of our country,'' said Betsy Fischer, the executive producer of ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, the top-rated Sunday show.
That said, they also want to make news, and few of those newsmakers in top leadership positions are women or members of minority groups. ''We are always looking to represent diverse views on our program, but 'This Week' is a news program and so our bookings are dictated by the news and newsmakers,'' said Ian Cameron, the executive producer of ''This Week'' on ABC.
The period covered by the study in 2009 was ''dominated by three issues in Congress: health care, the economy and Afghanistan,'' Mr. Cameron said. ''If you take a look at the committees who were most involved in these issues, most of the members both in the House and the Senate with the most seniority were white and mostly men.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Patrick Leahy, left, and Senator Jeff Sessions on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS, discussing a Supreme Court nominee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS USHER/CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (64%)

PERSON: PATRICK LEAHY (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



361 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Search Takes a Social Turn

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
Now, even on the Internet, it is not what you know but who you know.
After a decade when search engines ruled supreme -- tapping billions of Web pages to answer every conceivable query -- many people now prefer getting their online information the old-fashioned way: by yakking across the fence.
Turning to friends is the new rage in the Web world, extending far beyond established social networking sites and setting off a rush among Web companies looking for ways to help people capitalize on the wisdom of their social circles -- and to make some money in the process.
''What your friends think and what people like you think is much more relevant than what everybody thinks,'' said Augie Ray, an analyst with Forrester Research. 
Amazon.com now allows its shoppers to connect to their Facebook accounts so that Amazon can display their friends' favorite books, films and other products. TunerFish, a start-up owned by Comcast, lets users share what television shows and movies they are watching, mapping out an up-to-the-minute TV guide of programs gaining in popularity among their friends.
And Loopt, a location-focused social network with 3.4 million registered users, recently began showing them which of their friends liked a particular restaurant.
''We've gotten a tremendous response from that,'' said Sam Altman, a co-founder. Mr. Altman said that one's network of friends ''is an incredible predictor of what you will like.''
On Google and other search engines, searches for things like hotels or electronics can turn up a lot of online clutter and spam. Instead, many people informally poll their friends for recommendations, often through social networks like Facebook and Twitter.
''Improving search has always been about improving relevance,'' Mr. Ray of Forrester said. ''But the thinking now is that getting information from your immediate social network is what will really make results more relevant.''
While user-contributed review sites like Yelp and TripAdvisor have long been popular ways to get a quick reading on a new place to eat, the sheer volume of reviews they offer can be overwhelming.
And the reliability of those reviews can be hard to gauge. Some may have been planted by management, while others are from disgruntled customers with a bone to pick.
The trust factor of friends' suggestions can make a big difference. Mr. Altman said Loopt's users are 20 times more likely to click on a place their friends had liked or visited than a place that simply ranked higher in search results.
So-called recommendation engines on sites like Amazon and Netflix try to guess what customers might like by comparing their previous purchases or rentals with those of others with similar tastes. But that approach often does not offer much insight as to why a particular film or restaurant is being recommended, said John Riedl, a professor of computer science at the University of Minnesota.
Social networks, he said, ''do a richer job of constructing recommendations.'' For example, seeing that a friend is frequenting a new pizzeria can have a lot of influence over whether you go.
Of course, your friends are not generating the amount of data that a company like Amazon may use to make its automated recommendations, which could result in fewer choices. ''The trade-off is that you will be more comfortable with the recommendation,'' Mr. Riedl said.
TV watching, often a solitary activity, is an obvious candidate for some social tips. TunerFish shows which programs are gaining in popularity in your online social circle, and what is being watched right now.
Although TunerFish is available only on the Web for now, the company says it could eventually be brought to the TV screen through an application running on a set-top box.
Facebook has its own recommendation system in place. The service allows its 500 million members to click a button to indicate what news articles, companies and celebrities they ''like,'' and it shares data about those preferences with its Web partners. When a Facebook user visits a Web site like Yelp or TripAdvisor, they are shown reviews from friends before they get to those from strangers.
Facebook recently began introducing a feature called Facebook Questions that allows users to pose questions to friends and strangers using the site. Last month it introduced a service called Places that encourages people to ''check in'' at places they visit and broadcast their location to friends.
The new services will help Facebook amass even more data on its users' tastes. But for now there is no comprehensive way to search through or refer back to the information your friends have shared.
Bret Taylor, the chief technology officer at Facebook, said the company's main focus was on helping other sites add social features. But he said the company was thinking about ways to corral the ''likes'' and suggestions of its members into a more cohesive system.
''Exposing higher-quality recommendations in more obvious and prominent ways would improve the health of the system,'' he said.
Hunch, a start-up based in New York, wants to go beyond cataloging the places and products for which your friends have already expressed affection. With some complex software, it tries to use that information to predict what other things you might like, even if nobody you know has ever offered an opinion on those things before.
The service pulls in data about articles, topics and people that you and your friends have ''liked'' on Facebook or follow on Twitter. ''Based on your placement in the social graph and who your friends are, we can make inferences about what you like,'' said Chris Dixon, who founded the company with Caterina Fake, one of the creators of Flickr.
For example, Hunch's database shows that people who are big fans of Twitter are also likely to be interested in visiting the Museum of Modern Art in New York, while the non-Twitterati tend to favor the theater.
Mr. Dixon said the company was testing a local search tool that can make restaurant, shopping and hotel recommendations. ''We can take your taste profile and data from the Web and begin to match you to places that you will like,'' he said.
The company says it plans to unveil partnerships with major e-commerce, news and travel sites, along with mobile location-based services.
A shopping or travel site that Hunch is working with could help a visitor decide which offerings would best suit their tastes. Based on the data Hunch has collected about correlations between user preferences, the site might suggest that someone in search of a hotel in Las Vegas should stay at the Venetian if her online circle of friends listens to hip-hop artists like Rihanna and Usher.
The friend trend, where likes matter more than links, could eventually present a significant challenge to Google, which has struggled to create appealing social services.
In February the company introduced Buzz, which lets Gmail users share updates and photos, and it is including those updates in its customized results when users perform Web searches.
''People are likely to find what your friends are saying about the iPhone 4 or a Chinese restaurant more helpful in a Web search,'' said Matt Cutts, a software engineer who oversees search quality at Google.
Mr. Cutts declined to talk about what Google might do next in the social search area, but he did say he expected ''these sorts of trends to continue.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Dixon, left, and Matt Gattis of Hunch, a start-up in New York that tries to predict things its users might like. It uses data on topics and articles from users' Facebook and Twitter accounts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11) DRAWING (DRAWING BY OTTO STEININGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); NETFLIX INC (56%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (56%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



362 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Retooling In Response To Politico

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
Everyone knows that Washington is a pretty good place to look for news. Less well known? You can make money doing it.
While the rest of the country cycles through the effects of the recession, Washington keeps spending money (our money), and a huge ring of advisers, lobbyists and advocacy groups spend ad dollars in part to get a share of the pie. Even in 2009, when magazine ad pages were down more than 25 percent over all, pages in Beltway-focused publications were up 27 percent by some estimates.
None of this is lost on David G. Bradley, owner of the Atlantic Media Company. Among his publications are The National Journal, a wonk fetish that Mr. Bradley acquired in 1997, and The Atlantic, which he bought in 1999 and moved to Washington, where he had been very successful building the Advisory Board, a consulting and information company. (Disclosure: I worked at The Atlantic in 2000 for a year.) 
Since Mr. Bradley bought the publications, the Beltway-business-minded National Journal Group has motored along well financially. The Atlantic, with its more general interest approach, struggled for years, losing tens of millions. But with a more acute focus on politics and policy, a successful events division and a Web site that has become a meaningful part of the business, The Atlantic has finally been stabilized.
But now the success of Politico and an increasingly wired readership with moment-to-moment information needs has prompted the company to retool the National Journal Group's approach on the Web, in part because there are more new players than ever.
The Economist added Congressional Quarterly last year after buying Roll Call in the 1990s, and Bloomberg L.P. has taken aim at Washington as well with BGov.com, announcing the hiring of 100 people in the spring in an effort to bring the company's informational muscle to Washington.
''About 13 months ago, I was flying back from France and began thinking about how effortlessly Politico had wedged itself into the ad market against a very strong group of incumbents,'' Mr. Bradley said. ''And I thought that required a radical rethinking of what we had been doing.''
At the end of October, just before the midterm elections, Nationaljournal.com will begin offering content from the staffs of The National Journal, Congress Daily and Hotline -- all historically pricey publications in print and online -- on a free site in front of the pay firewall in an effort to fend off competition and become more of a national consumer brand.
The staffs of the three publication were blended this year and told that the old model of concentrating on print was over. About 100 people were given a choice between reapplying for their jobs or taking a buyout, and nearly 50 people chose to leave and are now being replaced with journalists who are comfortable with the bottomless, impatient appetites of the Web. Instead of five original digital stories a day, the group will be producing 100 or so if all goes as planned.
It's a significant gamble. The National Journal Group has provided a reliable annuity for the company, with subscribers paying dearly for the privilege: an annual subscription to The National Journal, a weekly magazine and Web site, costs $2,000; Congress Daily rates $4,000 for the print version and digital access; and digital access to the Hotline costs $6,000. But at a time when big policy shifts are often first signaled by an e-mail alert on a smartphone, sticking to pricey subscriptions seems risky too.
In anticipation of the initiative, the company has been on a hiring tear -- some 40 in all -- led by Ron Fournier, the former Washington bureau chief of The Associated Press, who came to the National Journal Group in June. In the last several weeks, the company has hired Beth Reinhard, a columnist for The Miami Herald; Major Garrett, a former Fox News correspondent; Michael Hirsh, the former foreign editor of Newsweek; Matthew Cooper, a prominent Washington reporter; the political strategist Matthew Dowd; Marc Ambinder of The Atlantic; Aamer Madhani of USA Today; Yochi Dreazen, Susan Davis and Fawn Johnson of The Wall Street Journal; and Josh Kraushaar and Coral Davenport from Politico. (Michael Kinsley went the other way, leaving The Atlantic for Politico last week.)
Switching the business model for a publication on the Web is pretty dicey business. Various publications (including this one) are trying to persuade consumers to start paying, in one way or another, for information that has previously been free. But what if a publication that has always been paid decides to enter the free business as well?
Mr. Bradley sat down last December with Justin B. Smith, who had taken over The Atlantic when it was losing $10 million a year, and changed the math with an aggressive digital strategy. Mr. Smith and Mr. Bradley say they believe the magazine will make money this year, in part because of robust digital advertising revenues that now account for 40 percent of the total.
''It may make only a penny, but after the millions and millions we have lost, I will celebrate that penny,'' Mr. Bradley said.
Mr. Smith was given leadership of all of the company's properties, including the National Journal Group, and set about preserving the company's lucrative historical streams of revenue while building new ones.
''I think that Politico's entrance entirely changed what had been a pretty cozy market with a few incumbents -- National Journal, CQ and Roll Call -- and kudos to them for demonstrating there was a market beyond the Beltway,'' he said. ''In addition to the deeper analytics we are known for, we also need to play outside the firewall with up-to-the-minute news because that is where much of the conversation is occurring.''
For the time being, dowdy old Washington has become a hotbed for publishing innovation and ambition. Government spending has bailed out the auto industry and Wall Street, so it only seems fair that the publishing industry is getting a taste as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); POLITICS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (63%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL JOURNAL GROUP (93%); BLOOMBERG LP (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (65%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (65%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



363 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Viable Economic Structure Eludes Worldwide Tour

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
MONTREAL -- Quebec's largest city is something of a cycling mecca, with a highly developed rent-a-bike system and an annual recreational tour that attracts about 20,000 riders.
Sunday's cycling crowd was substantially smaller, just 170 riders. But it included Ivan Basso, winner of this year's Giro d'Italia; Samuel Sanchez, the 2008 Olympic road race champion; and the American veteran George Hincapie. Like Quebec City, the provincial capital, on Friday, Montreal was host to a race on cycling's elite ProTour circuit.
Entry in ProTour events is mandatory for the sport's 18 top teams. And an abundance of points in the world rankings that largely determine cyclists' market value ensures that the top riders attend and race seriously. 
''These are the best of the guys who aren't at the Vuelta,'' said Carsten Jeppesen, a director with the British-backed Team Sky, referring to the monthlong Vuelta a Espana in Europe.
That the province of Quebec, which has a population of 7.5 million, has hosted the only two North American ProTour events is an anomaly partly related to the differences between organizers in the United States and the sport's international governing body.
But several prominent people in cycling, particularly from the United States, said that it is another result of the peculiar economic structure, which they say is holding cycling back throughout the world. The sport's financial instability, many of them argue, has also been a factor in its unenviable doping history.
''It's sort of everybody against everybody,'' said Bob Stapleton, the former telecommunications executive who owns the HTC-Columbia team. ''You have seen the sport rally around a pragmatic and progressive fight against doping. The next step is to unify on a common economic approach.''
Sunday's 193.6-kilometer race (about 120 miles) included 16 ascents of Mount Royal, which looms over downtown Montreal. It was won by Robert Gesink, a Dutchman who finished sixth in the Tour de France. He managed to hang in a solo break to eclipse a chasing group of five riders by four seconds.
Unlike other professional team sports, cycling has no formal league. Race organizers do not share television and advertising revenue generated by races with the teams that pay the riders' salaries and provide their support staff and equipment.
As a result, cycling teams are under pressure to achieve results that will attract sponsorship each year to cover their operating costs. In addition, entry to the Tour de France, the race that has come to dominate the sport over the past two decades, is largely assured only to the 18 teams that top the international rankings and form the ProTour. For many teams, dropping to 19th place would mean financial disaster.
The teams' shaky financial base extends to the riders, few of whom have contracts beyond two or three years.
''It's produce or die,'' Stapleton said. ''That is absolutely the nature of the sport.''
He, like many others, argues that the desperation of teams for sponsors and riders for contracts has been a major factor behind doping.
The ProTour, which began in 2005, was supposed to start the sport's restructuring. By designating elite teams and elite races, the International Cycling Union hoped the sport would grow outside its traditional European base. Instead it has found resistance from organizers and squabbling among all of the players in the cycling community.
European organizers resented the loss of control over entries to their events as well as attempts to place races in other continents on prime calendar spots. But Pat McQuaid, the cycling union's president, said the concept had been an equally hard sell with organizers in the United States.
Although he has discussed making the Tour of California, America's premier event, part of the ProTour, McQuaid acknowledged that issues remained between race organizers and the cycling union. Among other things, ProTour status would greatly limit the number of American teams that could participate.
Other American organizers, McQuaid said, have been put off by the cost of hosting a ProTour event, which can be steep given that that they must cover all of the teams' participation expenses, including travel.
Serge Arsenault, the organizer of the two Quebec races, said he expected to lose about 1 million Canadian dollars this year on a budget of 4.6 million Canadian dollars. Nor does he expect to turn a profit next year with the races, which he has agreed to stage for five years.
Arsenault, who owns a cable television channel and a video production company, is no novice. During the 1980s and 1990s, he ran a similar professional event in Montreal. But it folded after European organizers demanded that it be moved to October, when the weather is too cold for racing in Montreal and hockey consumes television airtime.
This time, Arsenault viewed his losses as an investment in a broader plan to restructure racing. His goal is to bring the top teams into his race as partners who will share some of the costs and receive a portion of the broadcasting revenue.
It is, he said, a plan that is not popular with everyone, particularly the Amaury Sport Organization, which owns the Tour de France and other major European races.
''We have to show the Tour that if they don't try to control everything they will make more money as the sport grows,'' Arsenault said Saturday on a train that transported the riders to Montreal from Quebec.
Jonathan Vaughters, the chief executive of the company that owns the Garmin-Transitions team, would like the sport to go further, ultimately establishing teams as permanent franchises. A fixed group of teams with stable rosters participating in a truly worldwide series, he said, would attract multinational sponsors and increase fan interest.
Stapleton said that some venture capital groups in the United States, which he declined to identify, had been considering financing a league-based system for cycling. It is not a radical concept for a pro sport, but any major revision will probably not happen quickly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Gesink of the Netherlands, who was sixth in this year's Tour de France, was first in Sunday's ProTour race in Montreal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAUN BEST/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); OLYMPICS (79%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (92%) QUEBEC, CANADA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



364 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Bad Economy Drives Down Arms Sales

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The global economic recession significantly pushed down purchases of weapons last year to the lowest level since 2005, a new government study has found.
The report to Congress concluded that the value of worldwide arms deals in 2009 was $57.5 billion, a drop of 8.5 percent from 2008.
While the United States maintained its role as the world's leading supplier of weapons, officials nonetheless saw the value of its arms trade sharply decline in 2009. This was in contrast to 2008, when the United States increased the value of its weapons sales despite a drop in business for competitors in the global arms bazaar. 
For 2009, the United States signed arms deals worth $22.6 billion -- a dominating 39 percent of the worldwide market. Even so, that sales figure was down from $38.1 billion in 2008, which had been a surprising increase over the $25.7 billion in 2007 that defied sluggish economic trends.
The decrease in American weapons sales in 2009 was caused by a pause in major orders from clients in the Middle East and Asia, which had pumped up the value of contracts the year before. At the same time, there were fewer support and services contracts signed with American defense firms last year, the study said.
Russia was a distant second in worldwide weapons sales in 2009, concluding $10.4 billion in arms deals, followed by France, with $7.4 billion in contracts. Other leading arms traders included Germany, Italy, China and Britain.
The annual report was produced by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service, a division of the Library of Congress. The analysis, regarded as the most detailed collection of unclassified global arms sales data available to the public, was delivered to members of the House and Senate over the weekend in advance of their return to work on Monday after the summer recess.
The decline in new weapons sales worldwide in 2009 was caused by government decisions ''to defer the purchase of major systems'' in a period of ''severe international recession,'' wrote Richard F. Grimmett, a specialist in international security at the Congressional Research Service and the author of the study.
The recession did not halt military modernization and improvements, as nations sought to make their armed forces more lethal despite tight budgets.
''Some nations chose to focus on completing the integration into their militaries of major weapons systems they had already purchased,'' Mr. Grimmett wrote. Other nations, according to the study, focused available military money on smaller contracts for ''training and support services, as well as selective upgrades of existing weapons systems.''
Mr. Grimmett said that while the global recession slowed overall weapons sales, ''The international arms market is still very competitive,'' with major weapons-producing nations battling over traditional clients and seeking new buyers in emerging markets.
To that end, the study focuses in particular on the category of weapons sales to the developing world, which totaled $45.1 billion of the overall arms trade in 2009, a drop from $48.8 billion in 2008.
In 2009, Brazil was the top weapons buyer in the developing world, concluding $7.2 billion in purchase contracts, followed by Venezuela with $6.4 billion in purchases and Saudi Arabia with $4.3 billion. Other major arms buyers last year were Taiwan, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Egypt, Vietnam, India and Kuwait.
Over much of the past decade, Saudi Arabia, China, India and the United Arab Emirates have been among the largest weapons purchasers in this category.
The United States led not only in global arms sales, but also in the category of weapons contracts to the developing world, signing deals worth $17.4 billion in arms to these nations in 2009. Russia was second, followed by France.
''Relationships between arms suppliers and recipients continue to evolve in the 21st century in response to changing political, military and economic circumstances,'' Mr. Grimmett concluded. ''Where before the principal motivation for arms sales by foreign suppliers might have been to support a foreign policy objective, today that motivation may be based as much on economic considerations.''
The study uses figures in 2009 dollars, with amounts for previous years adjusted for inflation to give a constant financial measurement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); WRITERS (69%); LIBRARIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (74%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



365 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: Owners Will Run W.P.S. As Commissioner Exits

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Tonya Antonucci, the commissioner of Women's Professional Soccer, will step down at the end of this season so that the team owners can play a larger role in growing the two-year-old league. 
Antonucci was the driving force behind the league, which began play during the recession and amid skepticism about the potential for a women's soccer league after the collapse of the Women's United Soccer Association in 2001. The league will announce her departure Monday.
The league was a modest success last season, drawing crowds of about 4,600 fans a game. Major sponsors like Puma were signed and some games have been featured on Fox Soccer Channel. New teams were added in Atlanta and Philadelphia this season.
Despite attracting more sponsors, W.P.S. has seen its attendance slump more than 10 percent this year as the World Cup in June and July and the lack of a novelty factor kept fans away.
The league, which has its headquarters in San Francisco, laid off about half its employees and cut its national marketing budget. Two of its most prominent franchises, in Los Angeles and St. Louis, have folded, and the owners of the remaining seven teams are still losing millions of dollars.
''We realized after St. Louis we needed to get in the room and make sure we can build this to last,'' said T. Fitz Johnson, the owner of the Atlanta Beat and the chairman of the league's board. ''We don't want another St. Louis.''
Anne-Marie Eileraas, the league's general counsel, will become the league's chief executive, but the team owners will play the largest role in running the league.
Johnson said the league had been in talks with investors interested in starting teams in Buffalo, Dallas, Seattle and Orange County, Calif. In another sign that the league is maturing, the Women's Professional Soccer Players Union was certified last week to represent the players in collective bargaining talks.
''We wouldn't have done this if we didn't think this was a viable league,'' said Meghann Burke, a goalkeeper for Sky Blue F.C. ''The players see themselves as being a partner with the owners.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (69%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



366 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Tired of Reality TV, but Still Tuning In

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
In a recent poll by TiVo, television viewers said they were growing tired of reality shows, with 40 percent calling reality the most overdone genre of programming. (Suspense was the viewers' favorite.)
But in the only poll that counts -- the ratings -- viewers also had an overwhelming favorite for the summer season of TV, and it wasn't suspense.
Reality shows again dominated ratings this summer, especially among viewers whom the majority of networks consider most valuable, those 18 to 49. On broadcast television, 15 of the top 20 highest-rated programs among that younger adult group were reality or unscripted shows. 
The shows all had familiar names, like ''America's Got Talent'' on NBC, ''Big Brother'' on CBS, ''The Bachelorette'' on ABC and ''So You Think You Can Dance'' on Fox. All of those have worked well for the networks in previous summers.
What viewers say they want and what they really watch are not the same. ''It's clear people have their favorite summer pastime reality shows, and they're watching them,'' said David F. Poltrack, the chief research officer for CBS.
The biggest unscripted show of summer on television, without challenge, has been a cable show featuring real people of a particular kind: ''Jersey Shore'' has been posting stunning ratings results for MTV. In the last measured week, which included the episode on Sept. 2, ''Jersey Shore'' had 4.4 million viewers ages 18 to 49, more than anything else on television.
With the extremely young profile and enormous audience for ''Jersey Shore,'' MTV has been able to ask for and get premium rates from advertisers -- especially film companies -- said Brad Adgate, the senior vice president for research at Horizon Media, which buys commercial time for advertising clients.
''That show has a median age of 23.5,'' he said. ''That's just amazing. They're making a ton of money on that show.''
''Jersey Shore,'' its sexual hook-ups, cultural caricatures, nasty language and bursts of physical violence, incurred some initial advertiser resistance; Domino's Pizza removed its commercials during the first season. But one senior program executive at another network, who did not want to be identified when speaking in favor of a competing program, said, ''I do think there are things we can glean from a show like 'Jersey Shore.' ''
A number of the biggest network hits of the past decade, including ''Survivor'' on CBS, ''Dancing With the Stars'' on ABC and ''American Idol'' on Fox, all began as summer unscripted series.
But in recent years the networks have been content to rely on what have become their summer staples, like ''Big Brother'' and ''America's Got Talent.'' They have not been seeking to introduce new reality shows that might emerge as hits transferable to the regular season.
The fact that shows are coming back and becoming reliable staples in summer, Mr. Poltrack said, ''increases what was already an economic advantage.'' Reality shows generally cost less than half as much to produce as scripted television.
''If you can bring these shows back on a regular basis,'' Mr. Poltrack said, ''then you don't have the risk of failure. Bad reality shows can do some really abysmal numbers and die very quickly. The fact that you've got a proven performer, one that you know is going to keep the lights on for you in the summer, is a definitely a tremendous advantage.''
The only problem with this strategy, the senior program executive said, is that it leaves no room to take a wild shot on a show like ''Jersey Shore'' -- or whatever the network version of that might be.
''There has been a little tendency, because we all have things that are working in the summer, for people to play the hand they have,'' the network program executive said, ''to just maintain the audience flow we have, rather than risk losing it altogether.''
The reality area that the networks have steered clear of, for the most part, is what is called the docu-soap, an hour of larger-than-life characters interacting and reacting in provocative ways. That loosely describes cable hits like ''Jersey Shore'' and ''Teen Mom'' on MTV, and all the permutations of ''The Real Housewives'' on Bravo.
Given the results this summer, the networks might reconsider that tendency. ''You'd have to think that Fox could do an even bigger version than the one on MTV,'' Mr. Adgate said.
The network program executive pointed to how ABC had adapted the TLC series ''Trading Spaces,'' about people redecorating rooms into ''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition,'' which is about refurbishing entire homes of people in dire need.
''A lot of times you look at something on cable and see how you can make an even explosive version of one of those,'' the executive said. ''We'll definitely be looking at everything on cable to see what we can do next summer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nicole Polizzi, second from left in a court appearance, and her friends on ''Jersey Shore'' had more viewers than any other show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Networks are leaning heavily on their proven fare, like ''America's Got Talent'' on NBC, with Prince Poppycock. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TRAE PATTON/NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%)

COMPANY: DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (51%)

TICKER: DPZ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



367 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: China, Japan, America

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last week Japan's minister of finance declared that he and his colleagues wanted a discussion with China about the latter's purchases of Japanese bonds, to ''examine its intention'' -- diplomat-speak for ''Stop it right now.'' The news made me want to bang my head against the wall in frustration.
You see, senior American policy figures have repeatedly balked at doing anything about Chinese currency manipulation, at least in part out of fear that the Chinese would stop buying our bonds. Yet in the current environment, Chinese purchases of our bonds don't help us -- they hurt us. The Japanese understand that. Why don't we? 
Some background: If discussion of Chinese currency policy seems confusing, it's only because many people don't want to face up to the stark, simple reality -- namely, that China is deliberately keeping its currency artificially weak.
The consequences of this policy are also stark and simple: in effect, China is taxing imports while subsidizing exports, feeding a huge trade surplus. You may see claims that China's trade surplus has nothing to do with its currency policy; if so, that would be a first in world economic history. An undervalued currency always promotes trade surpluses, and China is no different.
And in a depressed world economy, any country running an artificial trade surplus is depriving other nations of much-needed sales and jobs. Again, anyone who asserts otherwise is claiming that China is somehow exempt from the economic logic that has always applied to everyone else.
So what should we be doing? U.S. officials have tried to reason with their Chinese counterparts, arguing that a stronger currency would be in China's own interest. They're right about that: an undervalued currency promotes inflation, erodes the real wages of Chinese workers and squanders Chinese resources. But while currency manipulation is bad for China as a whole, it's good for politically influential Chinese companies -- many of them state-owned. And so the currency manipulation goes on.
Time and again, U.S. officials have announced progress on the currency issue; each time, it turns out that they've been had. Back in June, Timothy Geithner, the Treasury secretary, praised China's announcement that it would move to a more flexible exchange rate. Since then, the renminbi has risen a grand total of 1, that's right, 1 percent against the dollar -- with much of the rise taking place in just the past few days, ahead of planned Congressional hearings on the currency issue. And since the dollar has fallen against other major currencies, China's artificial cost advantage has actually increased.
Clearly, nothing will happen until or unless the United States shows that it's willing to do what it normally does when another country subsidizes its exports: impose a temporary tariff that offsets the subsidy. So why has such action never been on the table?
One answer, as I've already suggested, is fear of what would happen if the Chinese stopped buying American bonds. But this fear is completely misplaced: in a world awash with excess savings, we don't need China's money -- especially because the Federal Reserve could and should buy up any bonds the Chinese sell.
It's true that the dollar would fall if China decided to dump some American holdings. But this would actually help the U.S. economy, making our exports more competitive. Ask the Japanese, who want China to stop buying their bonds because those purchases are driving up the yen.
Aside from unjustified financial fears, there's a more sinister cause of U.S. passivity: business fear of Chinese retaliation.
Consider a related issue: the clearly illegal subsidies China provides to its clean-energy industry. These subsidies should have led to a formal complaint from American businesses; in fact, the only organization willing to file a complaint was the steelworkers union. Why? As The Times reported, ''multinational companies and trade associations in the clean energy business, as in many other industries, have been wary of filing trade cases, fearing Chinese officials' reputation for retaliating against joint ventures in their country and potentially denying market access to any company that takes sides against China.''
Similar intimidation has surely helped discourage action on the currency front. So this is a good time to remember that what's good for multinational companies is often bad for America, especially its workers.
So here's the question: Will U.S. policy makers let themselves be spooked by financial phantoms and bullied by business intimidation? Will they continue to do nothing in the face of policies that benefit Chinese special interests at the expense of both Chinese and American workers? Or will they finally, finally act? Stay tuned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



368 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Crawford, With Talent Cultivated by Rays, May Be Too Good to Stay

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Creative and forward-thinking as the Tampa Bay Rays are, they have not considered this suggestion from Mike Cameron. He proposes that the Rays use a two-man outfield, stationing Carl Crawford in the left-center-field gap.
''Dude covers half the field anyway,'' said Cameron, himself a fleet, though injured, center fielder for the Red Sox. ''He's made left field into his own little Revis Island out there.''
Cameron was only kidding, probably, with his reference to Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis. But discerning reality from fantasy is not always easy when it comes to Crawford, whose speed, he says with a laugh, is such that he is in scoring position as soon as he steps into the on-deck circle. What is indisputable is that he is the Rays' engine, their do-everything catalyst who leads the majors with 8 four-hit games and 12 triples, and also ranks in the top 10 in stolen bases, runs scored and average with runners in scoring position. No left fielder, according to defensive metrics on Bill James Online, has saved more runs than Crawford. 
''I used to think the best all-around player in the game was Carlos Beltran or Grady Sizemore, but there's no doubt in my mind now that it's Carl,'' said Houston center fielder Michael Bourn, a childhood friend of Crawford's. ''There's nothing he can't do.''
Only seven other players since 1900 have compiled 400 steals, 100 triples and 100 homers, and five, including Ty Cobb and Lou Brock, are in the Hall of Fame. Baseball-Reference.com lists Roberto Clemente as the closest comparable player for his age, while Dave Martinez, the Rays' bench coach, said Crawford reminded him of a former teammate, Tim Raines.
''You never see yourself as one of those guys,'' said the 29-year-old Crawford, relaxing in the Rays' dugout at Fenway Park early last week. ''I feel like I'm in 'Sesame Street.' You know, one of these things is not like the other? That's how I feel.''
Barring a meltdown by the Rays, who trail the Yankees by half a game in the American League East but hold a seven-and-a-half-game lead over Chicago in the wild-card chase, Crawford's talents will be on full display in October. He would be one of the more scrutinized players on the postseason stage. He will also be a central player when the Rays and the Yankees begin a vital three-game series in St. Petersburg, Fla., on Monday night.
But with every game this month and next, the clock also ticks louder toward Crawford's free agency -- and his likely departure from the only organization he has ever known. It is the perpetual challenge for small-market teams like the Rays: how to prevent a homegrown star from bolting for a big payday.
The Rays' payroll has steadily increased over the last four years, to roughly $71 million from about $24 million in 2007, but their principal owner, Stuart Sternberg, said in spring training that it would plunge below $60 million for 2011. Even with the money they receive in revenue sharing, team revenue has not increased in lock step with the Rays' success. Devoting what could be a quarter of their budget to one player would run counter to their operating philosophy.
''We could sign just about any player in baseball,'' said Andrew Friedman, the Rays' general manager. ''The issue is whether we could field a competitive team around that player. Our job is to balance that. We certainly can't win a bidding contest for any top player. It's kind of Math 101 when you look at our resources relative to most every team in the game.''
Especially in the A.L. East, where the Rays have been able to compete the past three seasons with behemoths like the Yankees and the Red Sox because of their success in identifying and nurturing young talent, then locking it up cheaply. Crawford's first contract was for $15.25 million from 2005-8 and included club options for 2009 and 2010. Evan Longoria, the star third baseman, signed a six-year, $17.5 million deal within a week of his debut in April 2008; this season, he is making $950,000.
Four-fifths of the Rays' rotation, including the Cy Young Award contender David Price, came through their system. Coming up the pipeline are the right-hander Jeremy Hellickson, selected as Baseball America's minor league player of the year, and outfielder Desmond Jennings, who projects as a superb defender, a top-of-the-order threat and a possible successor to Crawford.
''I want to believe that Carl wants to come back here,'' said Rays Manager Joe Maddon, who also referenced the team's other two high-priced, soon-to-be free agents, Carlos Pena and Rafael Soriano. ''There's a part of me that believes, truly believes, that if we do our job properly, they're going to want to come back here. That might be naive, that might be absolutely ludicrous, but I believe that. So I go about my day thinking that they're going to be here for another three or four years.''
By then, though, the Rays will still be playing in Tropicana Field. Plans have slowed to build an open-air ballpark, which would improve the playing surface -- ''No players should have to play on turf,'' Crawford said -- but not necessarily increase interest. Hard economic times in western Florida have affected the Rays' average attendance, which, at 22,679, ranks 23rd among the 30 teams in the majors. Unimpressive crowds are expected for their series with the Yankees.
''When we took two out of three from Boston last week, I thought we would gain some momentum going into the next series,'' Crawford said. ''We came out and saw 10,000 people there. I was like, what happened? It was disappointing.''
Then again, Crawford has always harbored grand expectations. Growing up in a hardscrabble section of Houston, Crawford went one day with his 10-year-old teammates -- including Bourn -- to hit in a batting cage with a pitching machine that flung balls about 80 to 85 miles per hour. The operator of the facility thought they were too young, but Crawford proved him wrong. He made solid contact on all 15 pitches.
''One thing about C. C.,'' Bourn said. ''He don't lack confidence.''
Recruited by Nebraska to play quarterback -- and by U.C.L.A. to play point guard -- Crawford believes he would have won the Heisman Trophy had he honored his letter of intent.
''I wasn't expecting'' anything less, Crawford said, but neither were the Rays, who selected him with their second pick of the 1999 draft, 51 spots after taking Josh Hamilton.
They envisioned a dynamic outfield for years to come. Drug abuse derailed Hamilton, now a star with Texas, and he and Crawford have spoken about what might have been. Instead, Crawford made his debut at 20 in 2002, when the Rays lost a franchise-high 106 games. They did not win more than 70 until 2008, when they lost to Philadelphia in the World Series.
''I'm a link to the losing days, I'm a link to the winning days,'' Crawford said. ''I've had the chance to see both sides, and seeing the bad times makes me appreciate the good days that much more. I never want to experience those bad days again.''
With those good days plentiful now, Crawford said, it has been easy not to dwell on his uncertain future. His teammates and coaches agree. Martinez, an original Ray, said he did not want to think about the Tampa Bay Rays without Crawford because ''it's a little depressing.'' So in the meantime, they watch and enjoy.
The way Crawford seldom peeks at the third-base coach Tom Foley after driving a ball down the right-field line, so sure that he will try for a triple.
Or the way he works on his outfield routes during batting practice, playing balls off the bat.
Or nights like last Tuesday, when in his first three at-bats Crawford pulled a ground-rule double into the Red Sox' bullpen, pounded a stand-up double off the Green Monster and ripped a liner inside the first-base bag -- a triple-double, if you will.
''He's one of those guys when the pressure's on and he's in the moment, he finds a way to get it done,'' Longoria said. ''Whatever happens this off-season happens. It's his career, and it's his decision. But I can tell you that the rest of us are just happy we have him now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Yankees or the Red Sox may be able to offer Carl Crawford more money than Tampa Bay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); ATHLETES (72%); RANKINGS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (89%); TAMPA, FL, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (89%); FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



369 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Back New Bank Rules To Avert Crises

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and SEWELL CHAN; Jack Ewing reported from Basel, Switzerland, and Sewell Chan from Washington.

 BODY:
BASEL, Switzerland -- The world's top bank regulators agreed Sunday on far-reaching new rules intended to make the global banking industry safer and protect international economies from future financial disasters.
The new requirements will more than triple the amount of capital that banks must hold in reserve, an effort to move banks toward more conservative positions and force them to maintain a larger cushion against potential losses. They come two years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers set off a worldwide banking crisis that required billions in government bailouts.
The centerpiece of the agreement is a measure that requires banks to raise the amount of common equity they hold -- considered the least risky form of capital -- to 7 percent of assets from 2 percent. Together with other requirements intended to safeguard against risk, it could significantly alter the way banks do business.
Banks have warned that the new regulations could reduce profits, strain weaker institutions and raise the cost of borrowing. But regulators provided a lengthy transition period to give banks time to adjust -- the better part of the decade for some of the strictest rules. 
''The agreements reached today are a fundamental strengthening of global capital standards,'' Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank and chairman of the group, which included financial officials from 27 countries.
While some banking groups have claimed the rules will require them to curtail credit and cripple economic growth, Mr. Trichet took the opposite view, saying in a statement that the rules' ''contribution to long-term financial stability and growth will be substantial.''
Others said that the modest effect on growth or borrowing costs was a small price to pay for a less combustible financial system.
''It will make banks less profitable, probably,'' said Joe Peek, professor of international banking and financial economics at the University of Kentucky. ''But it will make the system safer, because there will be more of a cushion from insolvency, so banks can withstand more of a hit and still walk away alive.''
The recommendations by the group, which includes Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, are subject to approval in November by the G-20 nations and then enactment by individual nations before they become binding. The group set a deadline of Jan. 1, 2013, for member nations to begin to phase in the rules, known as Basel III.
Some bankers expressed support for the new regulations. ''Banks will unarguably be safer institutions,'' said Anders Kvist, head of group treasury at SEB, a bank based in Stockholm that has operations throughout Europe.
Many banks, however, have warned that the new rules would tighten the credit available to borrowers.
''This high capital level will decrease the ability of banks to lend,'' said Scott E. Talbott of the Financial Services Roundtable, which represents the largest American banks.
While the new regulations require a substantial increase in capital reserves, they are not as severe as some analysts had predicted. Officials who participated in the meetings said the United States would have liked even stricter capital requirements and a shorter transition time, but were satisfied that this was an effective accord that could attract international support.
''It was not that hard,'' one American official said.
The group, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, stuck with its plans to oblige banks to protect themselves when they engaged in non-banking activities or made investments in instruments that were not on their balance sheets.
This provision, called a leverage ratio, is an attempt to require banks to hold reserves against all their money at risk, with no leeway to play games with accounting rules.
The 7 percent common equity requirement includes a 2.5 percent buffer that banks could draw down in times of crisis. But if they dipped into that money they would face restrictions on how much they could pay executives or distribute to shareholders.
Common equity is the amount of money that shareholders have invested in a company's stock, as well as profits that are not paid as dividends. The new minimum requirement for reserves refers to the amount of these conservative assets banks must hold in relation to so-called risk-weighted assets.
Some countries were pushing for an additional buffer of 2.5 percent, for a total of 9.5 percent, to be imposed in good times but when there were signs of economic overheating. But the Basel group could not agree on the measure and left it up to individual countries whether to adopt it.
The rules would be phased in gradually to give banks plenty of time to adjust, with some provisions not taking full effect until the beginning of 2019. Banks would have to begin raising their common equity levels in 2013.
A representative for the American Bankers Association, a trade group for the country's 8,000 banks, expressed satisfaction on Sunday that the group's concerns had been addressed. ''Banks understand the need for heightened prudential standards,'' said Mary Frances Monroe, vice president for regulatory policy at the association.
Regulators left open the possibility that they might still impose stricter rules on ''systemically important'' banks, institutions whose problems could spread throughout the financial system.
The three top American banking regulators -- the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency -- issued a joint statement saying the accord ''represents a significant step forward in reducing the incidence and severity of future financial crises.''
But while the United States is expected to adopt the reforms, they could be diluted as they are codified into law by other nations. ''Every country is going to face pressure from its banking industry to interpret the rules in a way that favors their banks,'' said David Andrew Singer, a political scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
In a nod to Germany's public-sector landesbanks, which had predicted they might need to raise 50 billion euros ($63 billion) to comply with the new rules, the Basel group allowed banks to continue to apply government bailout money toward capital reserves through the end of 2017.
Some banks may face market pressure to stock up on capital sooner, and the rules could encourage weaker banks in the United States and elsewhere to merge with stronger partners. But the effect may be less than feared because many banks have already increased their reserves in anticipation of the new rules or are planning to do so.
Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt said on Sunday that it would sell shares worth 9.8 billion euros beginning at the end of this month, primarily to finance the acquisition of Deutsche Postbank, a German retail bank, but also to bolster its reserves.
Other European banks that may need to raise money include Societe Generale in France and Lloyds in Britain as well as Deutsche Bank, according to calculations by Morgan Stanley made before the new rules were announced.
Banks that have already increased capital, like SEB and UBS in Switzerland, will be better placed and may be able to pay out profits to shareholders.
The rules also include provisions intended to make the financial world more transparent, for example, giving banks incentives to trade exotic derivatives on open markets rather than secretly between institutions. They would also will tighten how common equity and risk-weighting are defined to prevent banks from looking for loopholes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%); BEN BERNANKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



370 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Retiring Later Is Hard Road For Laborers

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
At the Cooper Tire plant in Findlay, Ohio, Jack Hartley, who is 58, works a 12-hour shift assembling tires: pulling piles of rubber and lining over a drum, cutting the material with a hot knife, lifting the half-finished tire, which weighs 10 to 20 pounds, and throwing it onto a rack.
Mr. Hartley performs these steps nearly 30 times an hour, or 300 times in a shift. ''The pain started about the time I was 50,'' he said. ''Dessert with lunch is ibuprofen. Your knees start going bad, your lower back, your elbows, your shoulders.''
He said he does not think he can last until age 66, when he will be eligible for full Social Security retirement benefits. At 62 or 65, he said, ''that's it.'' 
After years of debate about how to keep Social Security solvent, the White House has created an 18-member panel to consider changes, including raising the retirement age. Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio and the House minority leader, has called for raising the age as high as 70 in the next 20 years, and many Democrats have endorsed similar steps, against opposition from some liberal groups. The panel will report by Dec. 1, after the midterm elections.
Mr. Hartley says he feels like the forgotten man. Discussion has focused mostly on the older workers who hold relatively undemanding jobs at desks and computers that can be done at age 69 or beyond. But hard labor is not a thing of the past for older workers, who are on the whole less educated than younger ones.
A new analysis by the Center for Economic and Policy Research found that one in three workers over age 58 does a physically demanding job like Mr. Hartley's -- including hammering nails, bending under sinks, lifting baggage -- that can be radically different at age 69 than at age 62. Still others work under difficult conditions, like exposure to heat or cold, exposure to contaminants or weather, cramped workplaces or standing for long stretches.
In all, the researchers found that 45 percent of older workers, or 8.5 million, held such difficult jobs. For janitors, nurses' aides, plumbers, cashiers, waiters, cooks, carpenters, maintenance workers and others, raising the retirement age may mean squeezing more out of a declining body.
Mr. Hartley had planned to retire at 58, but he and his wife had high medical expenses, and the company froze one year of its pension plan, reducing benefits. He is, he said, ''stuck here.''
Workers like Mr. Hartley present a conundrum for a Social Security overhaul, said Eugene Steuerle, a fellow at the Urban Institute, who favors raising the retirement age. People are living longer, and providing ''old age'' benefits to them when they are relatively young and healthy, he said, makes less available to them when they are older and frailer.
''We're close to the point when one-third of adults will be on Social Security and will be retired for a third or more of their adult lives,'' Mr. Steuerle said. ''It's true that some people in late middle age have issues of physically demanding jobs, but saying we're going to give everyone more years of retirement is not an efficient way of dealing with that issue.''
Any changes in Social Security's retirement age will not affect workers currently in their late 50s and their 60s, who are eligible for full benefits at age 66. But their experiences now are a harbinger of things to come, said Teresa Ghilarducci, a professor of economics at the New School for Social Research in New York, who opposes raising the Social Security retirement age because she says it will have a disproportionate impact on lower-income workers and minorities, who tend to have lower life expectancies and so fewer years of collecting benefits. At the same time, blue-collar workers often spend more years paying into Social Security because they start full-time work younger, she said.
''People who need to retire early -- and they need to -- are folks that start working in their late teens, whereas people who are promoting raising the retirement age are people who were in graduate school or professional school and got into jobs that would logically take them into their late 60s and 70s,'' she said.
A study by the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics found that for workers ages 55 to 60, the share who said their jobs required ''lots of physical effort'' all or almost all of the time declined between 1992 and 2002, to 18 percent from 20 percent, but the percentages who said they had to lift heavy loads, stoop, kneel or crouch increased.
In 2002, 29 percent of workers ages 55 to 60 said they experienced chronic pain in their jobs, and 46 percent said they had arthritis.
And though more Americans are retiring early, it is not always voluntary. A 2006 study by McKinsey & Company found that 40 percent of early retirees said they were forced into it, about half for health reasons.
''If you try to punish people for retiring earlier'' by raising the retirement age, ''you're punishing people who aren't choosing it,'' Professor Ghilarducci said.
This is not news to Jim McGuire, 62, a ramp serviceman for United Airlines, who started lifting bags into airplanes 43 years ago. He has had rotator cuff surgery and separated a shoulder on the job.
''From 50 to 60 was a drastic change,'' he said. ''The aches and pains, the feeling that your back could go at any second. My hips are worn out. In a seven-day week, I take Advil five nights for the pain.''
Mr. McGuire said that he did not have a planned retirement date, but that he hoped to make it to 66. Since United's pension plan was taken over by the government, cutting his benefits in half, he says Social Security has become a much bigger part of his future plans.
For Bobbie Smith, 69, a certified nursing assistant at a nursing home in Miami, getting older has just meant using her body more judiciously. Providing direct care to the elderly, Mrs. Smith belongs to one of the fastest-growing work forces in the country and one of the grayest.
''I learned to arrange work so it won't be so hard on me,'' she said. ''I try to encourage patients to the point that they help themselves.''
She said she planned to continue working, even as she got older than some of her patients.
''What am I going to do if I sit at home, keep cleaning the house?'' she said. ''I need the money. I bought me a car, and I want to pay for it. But I would still work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jack Hartley, 58, at home with Bouncer in Fostoria, Ohio. Mr. Hartley works 12-hour shifts at the Cooper Tire plant in Findlay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MCGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); OLDER WORKERS (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); AGING (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); LIBERALISM (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ANALGESICS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (69%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (67%); ELECTIONS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



371 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: In Race for Attorney General, Democrats Make Final Pitch

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
RICHARD L. BRODSKY
Scene: Saturday, Union Picnic, Hempstead Lake State Park
Bus drivers and mechanics of Local 1056 of the Amalgamated Transit Union and their spouses and children were quietly feasting on hot dogs and grilled corn to a background rumble of dance music. The mood was relaxed, but there were appreciative nods in the crowd as Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky stroked and stoked them. 
''When you listen to the rich and powerful, the problems with America weren't caused by Wall Street, they were caused by working people,'' Mr. Brodsky told the crowd, with just enough sarcasm.
''And the solutions to Wall Street's problems,'' he continued, ''is to cut the wages, is to cut the benefits, of the people who do the work -- so that the people who manipulate the money can get back to manipulating the money!''
Mr. Brodsky then strolled from table to table in his shirtsleeves, shaking hands, before settling down at one bench like an old friend.
Some workers offered him quiet thanks. The last few years have not been kind to public-sector workers. They are blamed for unbalanced state budgets and ruinous pension burdens.
Mr. Brodsky is quick with a rejoinder to those critics -- ''The average pensions of these workers is $40,000 a year! You want to cut that?''
A longtime scourge of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the employer of most of those present, Mr. Brodsky is a valued ally of the workers.
''He keeps the M.T.A. on its toes,'' said Gerald Seabrooks, a union member who works in maintenance. ''That's what we want out of an A.G. That's what why we love him.''
Mr. Brodsky has been a state lawmaker since 1982, another year of great economic hardship and political retrenchment. His arguments about the nexus of wealth and privilege, and the way they twist government, have changed little since. He ran for attorney general once before, in 2006 -- dropping out when one of his daughters became severely ill -- and his message remains much the same.
''I represent what used to be called economic populism,'' said Mr. Brodksy, who recently waged nearly a one-man campaign against public subsidies given to the New York Yankees to build a stadium where seats can cost hundreds of dollars apiece. ''It is resistance to the transfer of public wealth into private hands with no return.'' NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (85%); STATE PARKS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); BASEBALL (60%); MUSIC (57%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMALGAMATED TRANSIT UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



372 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Hoping To Take Advantage Of G.O.P. Strength

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
With few signs of growth in their own political strength, Democrats set out this week on a two-month quest to leverage Republicans' might against them.
Call it the Jujitsu Campaign.
On Capitol Hill, where senators and House members return this week after their summer recess, Democratic leaders expect to move forward on legislation intended to help small businesses. Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, has pledged to provide the 60th vote needed to break a filibuster by his own party.
But for reasons of economic substance and political messaging alike, a legislative victory this late in the year will not matter much by Election Day. Nor will new government economic data, like the new deficit estimate the Treasury Department will release on Monday, even if it shows movement toward a narrowing gap between government revenues and expenditures as outlays for the 2009 stimulus bill wind down. 
Which is why Democrats will place less emphasis on measures they can still muscle through than on what Republicans are stopping them from doing.
President Obama, beginning at a backyard town-hall-style meeting with families in suburban Fairfax, Va., will slam Republicans for opposing his latest economic initiatives, which include significant tax incentives to spur business investment. His argument: Republicans are holding up economic remedies for political reasons even if they match traditional Republican prescriptions.
That tracks with rising Democratic warnings to voters of gridlock should Republicans regain control of Congress. Representative Lynn Westmoreland, Republican of Georgia, fueled that argument last week by reviving the specter of a federal government shutdown, which worked in President Bill Clinton's favor when Speaker Newt Gingrich led Congressional Republicans.
With attacks on Mr. Obama's spending and economic record working so well, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, has already begun working to defuse the gridlock argument.
As Democrats assert that Republicans would block an extension of the Bush tax cuts for the middle class unless top earners receive an extension too, Mr. Boehner said on the CBS program ''Face the Nation'' that he would consider backing a middle-class-only extension.
Democrats increasingly flaunt the prospect of marauding Republicans for two reasons. One is to rouse liberal Democratic partisans, who polls show feel less enthusiasm about midterm elections than conservative Republicans do.
The other is to alarm swing voters who may have forgotten what they did not like about President George W. Bush and his party in the last two elections. Already this year, energized conservatives in Republican primaries in Kentucky, Nevada and Alaska have nominated Senate candidates who Democrats hope will send political independents back into their arms.
In two critical primaries on Tuesday, Democrats are hoping strength on the right might once again redound to their benefit.
Kelly Ayotte, the former attorney general of New Hampshire and a formidable candidate to keep the seat of Senator Judd Gregg, who is retiring, in Republican hands, is seeking to hold off a challenge from the Tea Party favorite Ovide M. Lamontagne.
In Delaware, where Representative Michael Castle, a moderate Republican, is considered a solid general election favorite, Democrats consider their only hope an upset primary win by Christine O'Donnell, who boasts a late endorsement from Sarah Palin.
Ms. Palin will attract fresh news media attention when she speaks at a Republican political dinner in Iowa on Friday. And the jujitsu strategy is why Democrats welcome her polarizing presence on the 2010 campaign trail as much as her populist supporters do.
Of course, the corresponding risk for Democrats is that Mr. Obama himself has become a more polarizing figure than his 2008 supporters ever imagined. And thus the chief executive's own political travel, which this week has him raising money and promoting Richard Blumenthal, the Senate nominee in Democratic-leaning Connecticut, may rouse the Republican base as well as his own.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, has pledged to provide the 60th vote needed to break a filibuster by his party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (71%); TAX LAW (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE VOINOVICH (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); LYNN A WESTMORELAND (58%); KELLY AYOTTE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



373 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: More Bandwidth in More Places, and Maybe Lifting the Economy: F.C.C. Is Likely to Open The Unused Airwaves To Wireless Innovators

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When the Federal Communications Commission first approved the use of unlicensed bands of the airwaves decades ago, it began a revolution in consumer electronics -- first in television remote controls and garage door openers, then in baby monitors and cordless phones, and most recently in wireless computer networks.
This month, the F.C.C. is likely to approve what could be an even bigger expansion of the unlicensed airwaves, opening the door to supercharged Wi-Fi networks that will do away with the need to find a wireless hot spot and will provide the scaffolding for new applications that are not yet imagined. 
''We know what the first kind of deployments will be,'' Julius Genachowski, the chairman of the F.C.C., said in an interview, citing wireless broadband networks that can cover entire university or corporate campuses, for example -- what is referred to in the industry as ''Wi-Fi on steroids.''
The stronger, faster networks will extend broadband signals to bypassed rural areas and allow for smart electric grids, remote health monitoring and, for consumers, wireless Internet without those annoying dead zones.
''But this will also be a platform for innovators and entrepreneurs,'' Mr. Genachowski said. ''There is every chance of this leading to the development of one or more billion-dollar industries.''
Just as broadband-ready smartphones could hardly be imagined in 1938, when the F.C.C. first approved the use of unlicensed radio waves, or even in 1985, when it issued the rules that led to Wi-Fi, the eventual consumer products that will use the new airwaves are all but unknown.
''I'm absolutely confident that there will be a huge range of applications that we cannot yet predict,'' said Dan Reed, corporate vice president for technology policy and strategy at Microsoft, which, alongside Google and Dell, has pushed hard for the F.C.C. to approve the new rules.
Anyone who has wandered through a hotel conference center waving a laptop and hoping for a signal knows that wireless broadband connections have their limitations.
The expanded access to airwaves offers a solution. The unused bands of spectrum were generated by the conversion of television signals from analog to digital. Because digital transmission uses a smaller slice of spectrum, more ''white space'' was freed up around each broadcast signal. It is those white spaces that the F.C.C. is now seeking to put to use.
The new airwaves are particularly attractive because television signals are low-frequency waves, meaning they can travel farther, go more easily through walls, trees and other obstructions, and provide more reliable connections.
As with any developing technology, uncertainties remain. Urban areas, which have the most demand for the new airwaves, have less of them available because more local television stations are using available bands. Also, by making the airwaves available free, the F.C.C. is bypassing the possibility of using them to generate revenue, either through auctions or user fees.
The F.C.C. is virtually certain to approve the new rules at its Sept. 23 meeting, because it already has approved a similar set of rules, in November 2008. Those rules have never been in effect, however, because both supporters and opponents of the concept objected to some of the details.
Supporters challenged the F.C.C.'s decision to require new devices to include a feature that conducts an electronic search for airwaves that are not occupied, as well as to rely on a database of unused airwaves in choosing a frequency on which to transmit its signal. That belt-and-suspenders approach would have made devices more expensive because of the complicated engineering required.
The use of the white spaces was more generally opposed by a coalition of industries that included broadcasters, who feared that the new signals would interfere with their transmissions, and theater owners, sports arenas and churches, which make extensive use of wireless microphones that they, too, feared would be subject to interference.
Exactly how the F.C.C. has addressed those objections will not be known until the new rules are released at the Sept. 23 meeting. But people in the telecommunications industry who keep close tabs on the agency say they expect that the searching requirement will be abandoned, and that wireless microphones will be given certain transmission priorities.
Wireless networks that use the white-space signals are already being tested in several locations. Microsoft uses the signals in a wireless network that stretches over its corporate campus in Redmond, Wash.
The city of Wilmington, N.C., and the surrounding New Hanover County has a trial network used by several government entities. The transportation department connects wirelessly to remote cameras that help it monitor traffic congestion. The parks department similarly monitors remote wetland areas and uses the signals to transmit environmental data that is required by federal regulators -- saving the cost of sending an employee to scattered locations.
Some new devices undoubtedly will serve health care applications, allowing hospitals to move equipment easily without rewiring or allowing them to monitor patients in remote settings. And so-called smart grids -- systems that allow a power company to track consumption and generation more closely or to control appliances from a central location -- are also likely.
Blair Levin, a fellow at the Aspen Institute and a former F.C.C. official, said that although there was no guarantee that the new airwaves would produce the technological gold rush that some supporters have expected, ''anything that is put to use that is now lying fallow is good for the economy.''
The fact that new applications can use unlicensed airwaves is important as an economic development tool, said Rebecca Arbogast, a managing director and telecommunications analyst at Stifel Nicolaus. Few companies have the billions of dollars required to buy spectrum that is periodically auctioned off by the F.C.C., she said, but unlicensed spectrum can attract cash-poor, start-up companies.
The deployment of television-band white spaces represents a rarely used model for the F.C.C., which historically has operated under more of a command-and-control model, in which it tells licensees what they can use their spectrum for.
''The last time we did this, no one knew what would happen,'' Mr. Genachowski said. But the result -- wireless computer networking and other consumer applications -- has transformed the economy.
While issues of interference and other conflicts inevitably will arise and will be have to be addressed by the commission, he said, ''we are confident that the benefits of moving forward are so significant that we should act now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (90%); APPROVALS (90%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); BANDWIDTH (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); TELEMEDICINE (72%); TELEHEALTH (72%); SMARTPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (58%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



374 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. LEADER SAYS HE'D COMPROMISE ON TAX-CUT BILL

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House Republican leader, John A. Boehner, on Sunday opened the door to a compromise on the contentious issue of the Bush-era tax cuts, saying he would vote to maintain lower rates for families earning less than $250,000 even if President Obama and Democrats insisted on ending the cuts for wealthier Americans.
With Congress returning to Washington this week, Mr. Boehner's decision is likely to reframe both the final intense weeks on Capitol Hill before the elections and the fall campaign, in which embattled Democrats have planned to paint Republicans as obstructionists favoring the rich over the middle class.
Mr. Obama in recent days has lambasted Congressional Republicans -- at times singling out Mr. Boehner by name -- for threatening to block an extension of the tax cuts for more than 97 percent of Americans to preserve lower rates for ''millionaires.'' And Democratic party leaders had been planning to use the tax fight to help rally their base. 
''If the only option I have is to vote for some of those tax reductions, I'll vote for them,'' Mr. Boehner said in an interview on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS, during which the host, Bob Schieffer, pointedly asked whether Republicans would hold the tax breaks for most Americans ''hostage'' to keep the lower rates for the wealthy.
The Bush-era tax cuts are due to expire on Dec. 31 and have become a major issue in a midterm campaign dominated by voter anger over the weak economy and concerns about the nation's rising debt.
Policymakers face a difficult choice: to continue the tax cuts in a bid to appease constituents and perhaps spur economic growth, or let the rates expire as a way to raise revenue and help reduce the deficit. Mr. Obama insists the nation can no longer afford tax breaks for the wealthy, while Republicans say any tax increase is a grave mistake.
If Democrats prevail, it would be a major policy victory, allowing Mr. Obama to boast that he had fulfilled yet another signature campaign promise. The White House moved quickly to portray Mr. Boehner as caving in to pressure, including direct criticism by the president in a speech in the Republican leader's home state, Ohio, last week.
But the victory could come at a political cost. Mr. Boehner's move seemed to deprive Democrats of the argument that Republicans would hurt the middle class to help the rich. And he positioned his party to share credit for continuing the lower rates for most Americans, and still blame Democrats for raising taxes in a weak economy.
Mr. Boehner said that he still strongly favored continuing the lower tax rates for all income levels and that the Democrats would hamper economic recovery by not doing so. His comments raise pressure on Congressional Democrats, who are divided internally. Roughly a dozen House Democrats and at least four Senate Democrats have expressed support for temporarily extending all of the cuts.
It was not clear that Mr. Boehner's statements signaled a unified shift among Republicans, particularly in the Senate, where they control enough votes to block any tax-cut legislation. The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, did not issue any statement, but a spokesman said Senate Republicans expected to exert more influence over the debate than their House counterparts.
Many Senate Republicans have said that letting the Bush cuts expire for high earners amounts to raising taxes on small-business owners, some of whom fall into those rates because they report their business earnings as personal income.
Both White House officials and Congressional Democratic leaders expressed doubt that Mr. Boehner would follow through and said they would continue to press him on the issue.
Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, issued a statement welcoming Mr. Boehner's comments but adding, ''Time will tell if his actions will be anything but continued support for the failed policies that got us into this mess.'' In a statement, a spokesman for Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, said, ''John Boehner is still championing tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires that will add $700 billion to the deficit.''
The tax-cut debate is just one agenda item in what is expected to be a frenzied fall Congressional session -- a scant four weeks, if the schedule holds firm -- that is likely to feature more political jousting than legislating, given that lawmakers are already in full campaign battle posture.
The one essential piece of business is a temporary spending resolution to finance the federal government until after the election. And even before the debate on tax cuts gets under way, Democrats are poised to score a quick victory in the Senate this week, where George V. Voinovich, a retiring Ohio Republican, has pledged to back a small-business measure that Republican leaders blocked before the August recess.
The bill would provide tax breaks and also create a new $30 billion program within the Treasury that would channel government-backed loans through community banks.
Mr. Obama has urged Congress to pass the bill to help the sputtering economy, and Democrats would happily pair it with an extension of tax relief for the middle class as evidence of their efforts to fight a recession for which they blame the Republicans and former President George W. Bush.
But Mr. Boehner's strategy presented unmistakable complications for Democrats.
Mr. Boehner's willingness, however reluctant, to support a Democratic bill gives him an aura of flexibility after two years of working fiercely to block Mr. Obama's agenda. It comes at a time when Republicans are optimistic about their chances of winning control of the House and eager to present themselves to voters as prepared to govern.
In recent days, Mr. Boehner has called for extending all of the Bush tax cuts for two years, which would cost more than $500 billion, and for freezing nonsecurity discretionary spending at 2008 levels, which some analysts say would require cuts of more than $100 billion.
But this month, Republicans s will unveil a more concrete legislative blueprint that, they say, will include blocking any money to enact the health care law, scaling back tougher regulation of Wall Street and forcing the White House to slash the budget.
A muted debate over the Bush tax cuts could give Republicans more time to focus attention on the temporary spending resolution, which is the most crucial piece of business before Congress this fall. It could also provide an opportunity for Republicans to criticize Democrats on the deficit.
In the interview on Sunday, Mr. Boehner challenged Democrats to pass the annual spending bills before the election to demonstrate their commitment to reducing federal spending.
Democrats have no time or inclination to do so, given the compressed schedule and the imperatives of an election in which they face the prospect of steep losses.
''Even though we have a limited amount of time, we look to be passing a bill a week,'' said Representative John B. Larson of Connecticut, the chairman of the Democratic caucus.
Any push by Democratic leaders to notch a few more achievements will also inevitably be hampered by internal discord. In a bid to hold their seats, some Democrats have already begun distancing themselves from Mr. Obama and Speaker Pelosi.
A number of rank-and-file Democrats, for instance, have said they will not support Mr. Obama's call for $50 billion in infrastructure projects and other spending as a new round of economic stimulus.
And at least four Democrats -- Senators Evan Bayh of Indiana, Kent Conrad of North Dakota, Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Jim Webb of Virginia -- as well as Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut independent aligned with the Democrats, have expressed concern that any tax increases would hinder economic growth.
Mr. Boehner suggested he was content to let those Democrats fight their party leadership and the White House.
''I think raising taxes in a very weak economy is a really, really bad idea,'' Mr. Boehner said, adding, ''I think there is a growing chorus on Capitol Hill to extend all of these tax rates.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John A. Boehner, the House Republican leader, said he would vote for a bill that did not extend tax cuts for higher earners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK DUNCAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



375 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Tea Party Advocates Rally Ahead of Election Day

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Thousands of Tea Party supporters marched to the foot of Capitol Hill on Sunday, declaring their determination to topple the Democratic majority in Congress on Election Day.
''If we do not succeed in November, all that once was good and great about this country could someday be gone,'' warned Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, the chairman of the House Republican Conference. He added, ''Let's give them a November that they never forget.''
The event, organized by FreedomWorks, a libertarian advocacy group that has helped the Tea Party grow, was a repeat of a march on Washington that was a defining moment for the nascent movement a year ago. And it was intended as a political bookend to the religious revival that Glenn Beck called for at the Lincoln Memorial two weeks ago, drawing many of the same people. 
This crowd was not nearly as large as the one that marched last year, or the one at Mr. Beck's rally. Ending up on the western slope of the Capitol, it stretched back, stopping just short of the National Mall. But in many ways the crowd was louder than the one that had amassed for Mr. Beck. He had asked people to leave signs at home; FreedomWorks encouraged people to bring their signs, and to get loud.
The crowd cheered wildly as speakers celebrated the victories of Tea Party candidates who have upset establishment candidates in Republican primaries, and proclaimed that the Tea Party would now turn its ire against the Democrats.
''I believe we've got the Republican Party's attention -- we've been beating the establishment all over the country,'' said Dick Armey, the former Republican House majority leader and the chairman of FreedomWorks, to a burst of cheering. ''It's time we give the same lesson to the other party.''
Mr. Pence taunted the Democratic leadership: ''A recession is when your neighbor loses his job. A depression is when you lose your job. A recovery is when Nancy Pelosi loses her job.''
As the crowd cheered, he gave a taste of what a Republican-led Congress might look like, calling for a repeal of the health care overhaul legislation ''lock, stock and barrel,'' and an end to ''bailouts, once and for all.''
Speakers talked about the 10 points in the so-called Contract From America, a Tea Party manifesto that was created online as people proposed and then voted on what they wanted Congress to do. The provisions include a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced federal budget and requiring all legislation to state the exact provision of the Constitution that gives Congress the power to enact such a law.
''We run things,'' Ryan Hecker, a young Tea Party activist from Houston who conceived of the contract, told the crowd. ''Not only should we be listened to, we should be shown deference.''
Mr. Hecker noted the remarkable growth of the Tea Party movement over the last year. ''It is incredible the amount of impact we've had, and we're not going to stop,'' he said. And he warned that the movement had to be vigilant against being co-opted by ''Republican elitists who see us only as a vote.''
Ginni Thomas, a founder of the Tea Party group Liberty Central and the wife of Justice Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court, continued the theme of anti-elitism, declaring, ''Every day citizens make a difference, it's not the elitist rulers.''
''Let's not let this country be destroyed by the elitist politicians with bad ideas,'' she added.
Signs in the crowd reflected the antigovernment ethos of the movement, calling for spending cuts and an end to the ''Marxist income tax,'' and quoting the libertarian icon Ayn Rand. ''Redistribute my work ethic,'' read one sign. Others called for a Fair Tax -- a national sales tax to replace the income tax -- and a repeal of the health care bill passed in March. ''Down our throats on March 21st,'' one sign said, ''up yours on Nov. 2nd.''
But others reflected anger about illegal immigration -- ''Uncle Sam wants you to speak English,'' read one -- and the planned Islamic cultural center near ground zero, which many Tea Party supporters have rallied against. ''Obama Creates Jobs at Ground Zero,'' read one sign, over a picture of a mosque.
Speaker after speaker complained about portrayals of the Tea Party movement as extremist.
But signs in the crowd did not shy away from outright anger. ''By ballot or bullet, restoration is coming,'' read one, held over a yellow ''Don't Tread on Me'' flag.
And as much as many Tea Party leaders have disavowed the ''birthers'' who question whether President Obama is a citizen, other signs in the crowd cast doubt on the validity of his birth certificate. ''Undocumented worker'' read one, over a picture of the president. ''We don't want a Kenyan reject,'' read another.
Kim Mazurek, 44, a mother from Minneapolis, said she had come to protest the loss of freedom, which she defined as the freedom to make her own choices with her money and to make her own choices about health care. ''Government is in too much of our lives,'' Ms. Mazurek said.
She felt compelled to come, she said, to show the strength of the Tea Party movement heading into the midterms. ''If everybody here can talk to one person,'' she said, gesturing to the crowd, ''they'll talk to somebody else, and it'll spread.''
Protestors also rallied in Sacramento, before a plastic replica of the Statue of Liberty, and in St. Louis.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tea Party advocates pretended to sign the Constitution at a march on Sunday in Washington. One attendee dressed up as George Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); BAILOUTS (61%); BUDGETS (61%); HEALTH CARE LAW (60%); RELIGION (54%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOMWORKS (83%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); GLENN BECK (74%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



376 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Documentaries Zero In on Wall Street, and They Show No Mercy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
TORONTO -- Move over, Gordon Gekko. The real Wall Street is ready for its close-up. And it is not a pretty picture.
Several films now playing at the Toronto International Film Festival, and set to open in theaters around the United States in the next few months, offer a brutal assessment of the debt-swapping high jinks, regulatory failings and general spirit of self-aggrandizement that, by the movie world's lights, led to the financial collapse of 2008.
Two documentaries, ''Client 9: The Rise and Fall of Eliot Spitzer,'' directed by Alex Gibney, and ''Inside Job,'' from Charles Ferguson, take direct aim at Wall Street powers who are described as contributing to the financial implosion. The films also land some shots on Mr. Spitzer, the watchdog who became governor of New York and who fell from grace in a prostitution scandal but has now been somewhat rehabilitated as a host on CNN. 
''Client 9'' is set for release on Nov. 5 by Magnolia Pictures. ''Inside Job'' will be shown at the New York Film Festival later this month, then will be released commercially by Sony Pictures Classics in October.
A third film, ''Casino Jack,'' directed by George Hickenlooper, casts Kevin Spacey as Jack Abramoff, the former businessman and lobbyist who was sentenced to federal prison after a conviction for defrauding Indian tribes and contributing to official corruption.
While Mr. Abramoff did not generally work the same turf as the denizens of Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs, he is depicted as crossing the corridors of political power in which the financial crisis was fostered.
All this, and Michael Douglas is back too. Now his ''Wall Street'' character, Mr. Gekko, is out of prison and is counseling Shia LaBeouf as a young trader in ''Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps.'' That film is directed by Oliver Stone and set for release by 20th Century Fox on Sept. 24.
Given the allure of stories packed with conspiracies and villains -- though these are somewhat short on heroes -- it was probably inevitable that filmmakers should be delivering assessments of a crash exactly now. After all, it takes about two years for most feature films to catch up with real events.
Mr. Gibney, who spoke on Sunday morning, over a breakfast of pancakes and bacon at The Senator, an antique diner in Toronto, said that scandal in the world of high finance seems to come in perennial waves.
''They keep coming back, and it gets worse and worse every time,'' he said of Wall Street's wrongdoers.
Already an Oscar winner for ''Taxi to the Dark Side,'' a documentary critique of antiterrorism tactics, Mr. Gibney said he was drawn to Mr. Spitzer's story by its ''spectacular resonance.'' His film, which explores the sex scandal that drove Mr. Spitzer from New York's governorship in 2008, does not let its subject off easily: Mr. Spitzer's staff members, we are reminded, shuddered on the days when his body seemed to be inhabited by an evil twin they named ''Irwin.''
But Mr. Spitzer's tale also becomes a platform for Mr. Gibney's examination of Wall Street, and what he sets up as a gallery of rogues who would make the fictional Mr. Gekko blush. Principal characters in ''Client 9'' include the fallen securities analyst Henry Blodget, the former stock exchange chief Richard A. Grasso, and the ex-chairman of the American International Group, Maurice R. Greenberg.
Mr. Spitzer also plays a pivotal role in ''Inside Job,'' which is narrated by Matt Damon and includes interviews with a string of political figures, academics, watchdogs and Wall Street operators, some of whom get deeply unflattering treatment while being grilled about their contributions to the crisis.
Using the documentarian's full bag of tricks, Mr. Ferguson points the camera at Paul A. Volcker while he sips an amber liquid on the rocks. Frederic Mishkin, a Columbia Business School professor and former Federal Reserve governor, hems and haws into a mercilessly unswerving lens.
Being fictionalized, if not exactly fiction, ''Casino Jack'' -- set for release by ATO Pictures in December -- has an actual plot, and follows a somewhat different trail than the documentaries. It picks up Mr. Abramoff as he gives himself a pep talk in a mirror, before unspooling a web of what Mr. Hickenlooper, quoted by Movieline.com at a Hollywood screening earlier this year, called ''white-collar thuggery.''
The films do not really function as partisan political tools; if anything, they share a populist impulse that finds its devils mostly in the interlocking political, business and academic elites. The net effect is to create a picture of New York and its sister cities, Washington and Boston, as corrupt hellholes in which almost anything went, and perhaps still goes.
Although meticulously researched, the documentaries tend to let Main Street off the hook. Neither looks closely at those who borrowed money while knowing they could never pay it back, or at retirees who draw California-style pensions that could only be financed with the absurd profits from all those now-derided derivatives.
Still, Mr. Ferguson insisted in an e-mail over the weekend, the little guy was far more victim than perpetrator in the crash.
''The population was driven into this behavior rather than being the driver of it,'' Mr. Ferguson wrote during the festival.
He added: ''The core driver of this crisis was, on the contrary, irresponsible and even criminal financial sector behavior.''
And, besides, there is always room for a sequel.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about a wave of documentaries examining Wall Street and the financial crisis misstated the release date for ''Client 9: The Rise and Fall of Eliot Spitzer,'' which also focuses on such characters as Richard A. Grasso, the former New York Stock Exchange chief , and Maurice R. Greenberg, the former American International Group chief. The film will be released on Nov. 5, not Nov. 1.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alex Gibney directed ''Client 9: The Rise and Fall of Eliot Spitzer,'' one of the new documentaries painting a picture of corruption.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN BUTNICK/TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Paul A. Volcker, left, the former Fed chairman, is featured in the unflattering film ''Inside Job.'' Not all the indictments are nonfiction
the next-generation ''Wall Street'' movie, again starring Michael Douglas as Gordon Gekko, is to be released on Sept. 24. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REPRESENTATIONAL PICTURES/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS
 BARRY WETCHER/20TH CENTURY FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); SCANDALS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); PRISONS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); SENTENCING (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); SEX SCANDALS (68%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (90%)

TITLE: Client 9: The Rise and Fall of Eliot Spitzer (Movie); Inside Job (Movie); Casino Jack (Movie); Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



377 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Old New Hampshire Hand Looks for G.O.P. Rebound

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
HAMPTON FALLS, N.H. -- John H. Sununu, once the governor of this state and a powerful insider in the first President George Bush's White House, was discouraged after the 2008 election. Not only had the Democrats firmly taken control in Washington and Concord, New Hampshire's capital, but his son John E. Sununu had just lost his Senate seat in a bitter grudge match.
The father was ready to turn his back on public life for good, wind down his consulting business and retire to the links.
But his family performed what he calls an intervention, and Mr. Sununu offered himself up as chairman of the State Republican Party. By the time he took over, in January 2009, it was a sinking ship: it had lost the governor's office, both houses of the legislature, both of the state's Congressional seats and one of the two Senate seats. In the 2008 presidential race, Barack Obama beat John McCain here by almost 10 points. 
''The Democrats are ruining our state!'' Mr. Sununu thundered in his acceptance speech. ''In 2010, we will fix it; 2010 will be the year the state of New Hampshire goes red again.''
Now, as the state prepares for its midterm primaries on Tuesday, Mr. Sununu is confident that he will make good on that promise.
''We will win everything in New Hampshire in November 2010,'' Mr. Sununu, 71, said in an interview at his airy home office here near the seacoast. He said he expected that the winds of change that appeared to be blowing across the country were blowing through the Granite State as well.
Mr. Sununu noted that New Hampshire Republicans have won seven of eight special elections since 2008.
Many Republicans are running for offices here up and down the ballot, the most that officials can recall in recent memory. The New Hampshire secretary of state's Web site lists four for the party's nomination for governor; seven for the Senate seat being vacated by Judd Gregg, a Republican; eight for the House seat in the First Congressional District; and five for the open House seat in the Second District.
And despite some nasty internal fights in the last few weeks, these candidates are largely on message: Republicans, they say, would cut spending, cut the deficit and cut the size of government.
Mr. Sununu said the plethora of candidates reflected a strong, vibrant party and an optimism that Republicans were ''destined to win.''
His counterpart in the Democratic Party, Ray Buckley, said such talk was empty bravado. To him, the flood of Republicans suggests a lack of party discipline, an attempt to throw everything against the wall to see what sticks.
''The national narrative and events in other states have given a false sense of optimism to New Hampshire Republicans,'' Mr. Buckley said.
The Republican field lacks any brand name with wide recognition; in fact, Mr. Sununu, who is not running for anything, may be the most prominent. (His son John has joined a law firm and could seek public office again someday; another son, Chris, is running for a seat on the state's powerful Executive Council and is unopposed in the primary.)
In contrast to the Republican side, the Democrats have seen minimal primary activity. The state's popular governor, John Lynch, is seeking his fourth term against two minor challengers. Paul Hodes has no opposition in the Senate primary, and Representative Carol Shea-Porter, who squeaked through her two previous elections in the First Congressional District, is unopposed as she seeks a third term.
The only real Democratic contest is for the open seat in the Second District, between Katrina Swett and Ann McLane Kuster, both scions of political families.
Moreover, the Democrats have raised more money. Mr. Sununu said this was true only because Democrats ''own'' state government and donors had been ''cowed.''
In any case, New Hampshire does not always fit the national mold, and there are at least two factors this year that separate it from the pack.
One is that the economy here is not as bad as elsewhere; the unemployment rate is about half the national average. That may suggest less anxiety, though most candidates cite the economy as the biggest issue.
Second, the Tea Party movement has a lower profile, in part because its message of lower taxes and smaller government has long been woven into the fabric of the state's character. The Republican Party here is essentially already a Tea Party.
''We're compatible'' with the Republicans, said Cynthia Coolidge Howard, the organizer of a recent Tea Party event in Manchester and founder of the Claremont Citizens for Lower Taxes (and a descendant of participants in the original Boston Tea Party).
There are many such groups in the state, and almost all the Republican candidates have tried to appeal to them, said Kevin Smith, executive director of Cornerstone Policy Research, which promotes limited government. ''But there isn't one who is head and shoulders above the others in terms of being the Tea Party candidate,'' he said.
In the Senate primary, for example, Kelly Ayotte, the state's former attorney general who has been leading in the polls, has the backing of Sarah Palin (as well as some of the Republican Party establishment). Her opponent, Ovide Lamontagne, who has been rising in the polls, has the backing of Senator Jim DeMint, the South Carolina Republican who is allied with the Tea Party; he also has been endorsed by The Union Leader in Manchester.
In recent debates and in their commercials, most of the Republicans portrayed themselves as the true fiscal conservative who would cut spending, get rid of earmarks and repeal the health care law. Dante Scala, a political scientist at the University of New Hampshire, said that when the dust settles on Tuesday, ''you'll have a series of fiscal conservatives up and down the ticket, and that's not news in New Hampshire.''
The conservative mind-set is so strong that after the Democratic debate last week, Ms. Swett called herself ''the Democrat's Mama Grizzly,'' adopting Ms. Palin's signature term. A Kuster campaign official sent an e-mail to reporters asking of Ms. Swett, ''Does she think she is running in the Republican primary?''
In the actual Republican primary, Mr. Sununu has called for civility, but that has not stopped the candidates from sniping at each other, mostly over ethics and job performance issues. But by Wednesday, he said, they will unite for the sprint to November.
''We have seven weeks of hard work after Tuesday,'' Mr. Sununu said. ''I came in to clean the vermin out, then I'll leave. I'm done. Done-zo. Finished. Kaput.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New Hampshire race for the Senate seat being vacated by Judd Gregg has a crowded Republican primary field. Above, five of the seven candidates debated last week in Manchester. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%)

PERSON: JOHN SUNUNU (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (58%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



378 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: More Bandwidth in More Places, and Maybe Lifting the Economy: Coming to Chattanooga: The Fastest Net Service, And Price Experiments

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In the global race to see who can offer the fastest Internet service, an unlikely challenger has emerged: Chattanooga, Tenn.
The city-owned utility, EPB, plans to announce on Monday that by the end of this year it will offer ultra-high-speed Internet service of up to one gigabit a second. That is 200 times faster than the average broadband speed in America.
Only Hong Kong and a few other cities in the world offer such lightning-fast service, and analysts say Chattanooga will be the first in the United States to do so. ''This makes Chattanooga -- a midsized city in the South -- one of the leading cities in the world in its digital capabilities,'' said Ron Littlefield, the city's mayor.
There is one caveat: the highest-speed service will cost $350 a month, a price that may appeal to some businesses but few households, even though the service will be offered to all the 170,000 homes and businesses EPB serves. 
''We don't know how to price a gig,'' said Harold DePriest, chief executive of EPB. ''We're experimenting. We'll learn.''
Chattanooga's effort is the byproduct of an aggressive high-tech economic development plan in recent years, helped along by funds from the federal economic stimulus program. But it comes at a time of increasing debate among communities, countries and corporations about how best to pursue the next generation of broadband, a technology seen as the gateway to a new wave of Internet-based products and services.
The Obama administration presented its broadband strategy earlier this year and set the goal of bringing broadband to 100 million American homes at download speeds of at least 100 megabits a second -- a tenth of Chattanooga's top speed -- by 2020. The United States, according to studies, is a laggard among developed nations in broadband adoption and service speeds.
Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, and other leaders in technology and government point to the trailing broadband performance as a danger to American competitiveness that threatens to saddle the nation with an ''innovation deficit'' compared with other countries.
To help close the gap, Google pledged this year to supply service at one gigabit a second to up to 500,000 people in the United States. The company says that 1,100 communities have applied, and Google will make its selection -- one community, or a few -- this year.
In announcing the program, Google offered a glimpse of the benefits of ultra-high-speed Internet service. ''Imagine sitting in a rural health clinic, streaming three-dimensional medical imaging over the Web and discussing a unique condition with a specialist in New York,'' its statement said. ''Or downloading a high-definition, full-length feature film in less than five minutes. Or collaborating with classmates around the world, while watching live 3-D video of a university lecture.''
Such visions of new high-speed services in health care, entertainment, education and business are behind the ambitious national programs under way in countries like Australia and South Korea. Already a leader in high-speed broadband, Korea plans to offer one-gigabit-per-second service nationally by 2012.
Higher-speed Internet service, experts agree, is an important national goal, but it is less clear whether moving quickly to very-high-speed service is worth the cost. Much of the economic gain can be achieved, and consumer demand met, by moving on a more measured path, they say.
Verizon, for example, has invested billions of dollars to upgrade much of its network for fiber optic Internet service, at speeds of 15, 25 and 50 megabits per second. Those speeds are three to 10 times standard broadband service; the monthly charges are $50 for 15 megabits, $65 for 25 and $140 for 50. And the vast majority of Verizon's fiber optic Internet customers, analysts say, choose the 15-megabit, $50-a-month service.
The demand for one-gigabit-per-second service could be minuscule, experts say. ''I can't imagine a for-profit company doing what they are doing in Chattanooga, because it's so far ahead of where the market is,'' said Robert D. Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a nonpartisan research group.
Even Mr. DePriest of EPB does not expect brisk demand for the one-gigabit service anytime soon. So why offer it? ''The simple answer is because we can,'' he said.
And, Mr. DePriest said, it can be done at minimal additional expense, once fiber optic cable is strung to homes and businesses, and the electronics for ultra-high-speed Internet -- more than 100 megabits per second -- are in place.
''The overriding consideration is that this is a real tool for economic development for our community,'' Mr. DePriest said. ''It is the basis for creating the products and services of the Internet of the future. And it's in Chattanooga today.''
The utility started stringing fiber optics to homes about two years ago, and began offering high-speed broadband a year ago. It supplies 30-megabits-per-second service for $58 a month, 50 megabits for $71 a month, and 100 megabits for $140 a month (as of Monday, down from $175).
That service is now offered to 100,000 of the utility's 170,000 customers, and will be available to all of them by the end of the year. At present, 15,000 customers subscribe to at least one fiber optic service -- television, Internet access or phone service. And 12,000 subscribe to the Internet service, a strong sign-up rate in the first year, Mr. DePriest says.
The high-speed Internet service is piggybacked on top of the utility's smart-grid network, which was the reason for stringing the fiber optic cable to homes in the first place. Smart grids are advanced electrical networks that can improve energy efficiency, enable variable pricing based on the time of day, and reduce disruptions. They require digital networks for two-way communications, and computerized meters in homes.
EPB had already begun a smart-grid program before the Obama administration included billions for grants for smart-grid projects in the economic stimulus program in 2009. But the Chattanooga utility did win a $111 million grant from the Energy Department, accelerating its smart-grid plan. The federal funds did not go to subsidize the high-speed Internet service, Mr. DePriest said.
The customers for the fastest offering may be few, but Dr. James Busch will most likely be one of them. He is one of 10 radiologists in a practice that reads and interprets medical images from 14 hospitals and clinics in Tennessee and Georgia. Those data-heavy medical images are shuttled over the Internet.
''The business model works because bandwidth is so available in Chattanooga,'' Dr. Busch said.
The bandwidth requirements for the practice will only grow, he said, and the faster service to homes will help. ''Our docs will be able to read images from home,'' Dr. Busch said. ''That could change our practice.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EPB workers installed fiber optic cable around Chattanooga last year. The utility began offering high-speed broadband a year ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAWLSTON/CHATTANOOGA TIMES FREE PRESS) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (90%); BANDWIDTH (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MAYORS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); RURAL HEALTH (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (86%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (70%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (96%) TENNESSEE, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



379 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Candidates Are Keeping the Party At Arm's Length in Ads

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Amanda Cox contributed research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Representative Mark Schauer of Michigan does not dwell on the legislation he has voted for during his first term in Congress, which includes the Democratic stimulus plan and health insurance overhaul. But he reminds his constituents what he has fought against, declaring, ''I must ask myself 10 times a day, what is Washington thinking?''
Representative Glenn Nye of Virginia does not mention in his television advertisements that he is a Democrat. But he expresses a deep worry about the national debt, saying, ''I stood up to my party leaders and voted no.''
Representative Suzanne M. Kosmas of Florida looks straight into the camera during her latest commercial and declares, ''People in this district are mad, and I'm mad, too.'' 
The advertisements from these three vulnerable Democrats offer a window into the party's strategy to try to keep control of the House in November at a moment when Republicans and their allies are substantially outspending Democrats and their backers.
Two years after arriving in Washington on a message of hope and change, Democratic candidates are not extolling their party's accomplishments, but rather distancing themselves from their party's agenda.
The midterm elections may revolve around a series of big issues, particularly with control of Congress at stake. But a look at the advertising themes and images being employed by Democrats shows all the ways they are trying to personalize their contests and avoid being defined as ideological partners of President Obama's or as part of the Washington establishment.
In the last six weeks, Republicans have outspent Democrats $20 million to $13 million in television advertising, according to an analysis by The New York Times of 56 of the nation's most competitive House and Senate races. The Republican advantage includes $9 million in spending from outside groups, compared with $3 million from left-leaning interests.
The disparity in spending, particularly from third-party groups, is the central reason Mr. Obama has agreed to step up his fund-raising efforts for the party in the coming weeks, aides said, and why Speaker Nancy Pelosi is asking leading donors to dig deeper.
The images of Mr. Obama and Ms. Pelosi appear with more frequency than those of any other political figures -- but nearly always in Republican advertisements. They have been mentioned so many times that in their advertising some Democrats have started calling out their Republican rivals, including Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, who is running for the Senate.
''Congressman Roy Blunt seems to think he's running for the Senate against Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi,'' says Robin Carnahan, the Democratic candidate, standing in the middle of a cow lot on her farm. ''Hey Roy, you're running against me!''
For all the evolutions in technology, with voters able to gather information instantly about candidates from an ever-widening array of sources, television advertising remains the most central ingredient of political races. Many candidates say they are buying more spots than in previous election cycles, hoping to break through to viewers who often tune out the first few times they come across a commercial.
The voices of politicians, along with soothing-sounding narrators talking about the economic stimulus, federal spending and bank bailouts, resonate from television sets throughout the morning, afternoon and evening.
In the last six weeks alone, Republicans broadcast 45,100 commercials and Democrats broadcast 38,400 in the competitive races included in the Times analysis of advertising data collected by the independent Campaign Media Analysis Group.
''The political response to a fragmented media world is to talk louder and longer,'' said Evan L. Tracey, president of the group, which monitors political advertising. ''This will be the most negative election we've probably ever seen, because everyone is trying to tap into voters on an emotional level and no one is looking to entertain right now.''
Many of the most serious and stark messages come in advertisements sponsored by Americans for Prosperity, an advocacy group financed in large part by David Koch, who invests millions of dollars on behalf of conservative causes. The group has focused on a handful of races, spending $1.5 million in seven competitive House seats in the last six weeks, leaving the Democratic candidates under fire at all hours of the day on television.
''To small businesses, Betsy Markey is the same as Nancy Pelosi,'' a man says in one of the advertisements, referring to Representative Betsy Markey, Democrat of Colorado. For a one-week stretch in August, the group ran $40,000 worth of commercials every day against her.
In Florida, Marco Rubio, the Republican candidate for the Senate, has spent $1.1 million over the last six weeks on advertisements that are largely positive and biographical, telling the story about how he is a first-generation American of Cuban heritage. Yet in the closing moments of his spots, he says he is worried about his children's future.
''As the son of exiles, I understand what it means to lose your country,'' Mr. Rubio says. ''I approve this message because we can't afford to bankrupt ours.''
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada barely appears in many of his commercials. In one of his latest, he said nothing about his time as majority leader, but instead talked about milk. A dairy owner offered a testimonial that Mr. Reid ''really came through for us.''
A review of hundreds of advertisements broadcast over the last six weeks found that Republicans were more than twice as likely to talk about jobs, often criticizing Democrats as not creating them. Republicans also mentioned health care far more than Democrats did. And when Democrats do bring up the issue, 38 percent of the commercials are critical of the new law.
''I've said no to more government spending, no to President Obama's big health care plan and no to Wall Street bailouts,'' Representative Walt Minnick, Democrat of Idaho, said in a solemn voice, sitting on the front steps of a house in jeans and shirtsleeves, looking as if he is worlds away from Washington.
The themes on display in the advertising campaigns reflect months of polling and focus groups by candidates in both parties. Democrats were twice as likely to mention financial regulation or Wall Street, according to the analysis, while Republicans mentioned the budget or government spending nearly twice as often as Democrats.
With Democrats holding a 39-seat majority in the House and Republicans 10 seats short of a Senate majority, there are more Republican candidates introducing themselves as outsiders, without the need to defend their voting records in Washington. But for the few seats where Democrats are aggressively trying to knock off a Republican incumbent, the spending argument has also been deployed.
A Democratic candidate in Nebraska's Second District, Tom White, is urging voters to consider that Representative Lee Terry, a Republican, is to blame for the size of the debt.
''Every day, every child in America grows deep and deeper in debt, thanks to Washington politicians like Lee Terry,'' said the advertisement sponsored by Mr. White, who does not mention that he is a Democrat, branding himself ''Nebraska Independence for Congress.''
With early voting beginning in several states in a few weeks and with Election Day less than two months away, some of the most vulnerable Democratic candidates have turned to another approach: pleading for a second chance.
''I've made my share of mistakes, but they were honest mistakes, and I've listened to your concerns and I've grown on the job,'' said Gov. Chet Culver of Iowa, wearing a solemn expression that gives way to a slight smile. ''I hope you give us the chance.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: The Congressional Ad Race: Who's Buying and What's Been Said? In 56 of the most competitive House and Senate races, Republicans have spent nearly $20 million on general election television advertisements in the last six weeks, including $9 million by outside groups. Democrats have spent nearly $13 million in these races, including $3 million by outside groups.
Jobs
Health care
Taxes
The budget and spending
Financial reform
 President Obama and Speaker Nancy Pelosi (Source: Campaign Media Analysis Group) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); FUNDRAISING (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NANCY PELOSI (89%); ROY BLUNT (78%); MARK SCHAUER (73%); GLENN NYE (58%); SUZANNE KOSMAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



380 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Second Thoughts On Web Classes

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Let the computer do the teaching. Some studies, expert opinion and cost pressures all point toward a continuing shift of education online.
A major study last year, funded by the Education Department, which culled comparative research over 12 years, concluded that online learning on average beat face-to-face teaching by a modest but statistically meaningful margin.
Bill Gates, whose foundation funds a lot of education programs, predicted last month that in five years much of college education will have gone online. ''The self-motivated learner will be on the Web,'' Mr. Gates said, speaking at the Techonomy conference in Lake Tahoe. ''College needs to be less place-based.'' 
But recent research, published as a National Bureau of Economic Research working paper, comes to a different conclusion. ''A rush to online education may come at more of a cost than educators may suspect,'' the authors write.
The research was a head-to-head experiment, comparing the grades achieved in the same introductory economics class by students -- one group online, and one in classroom lectures. The 312 students were undergraduates at a major state university (unnamed, at the university's request). The research was funded by the National Science Foundation and the Education Department.
Certain groups did notably worse online. Hispanic students online fell nearly a full grade lower than Hispanic students that took the course in class. Male students did about a half-grade worse online, as did low-achievers, which had college grade-point averages below the mean for the university.
The difference certainly was not attributable to machines replacing a tutorial-style human teaching environment. Instead, the classroom was a large lecture hall seating hundreds of students.
Initially, David Figlio, an economist at Northwestern University and co-author of the paper, said he had thought that the flexibility of the Internet -- the ability to ''go back and roll the tape'' -- would probably give the online coursework an edge over traditional ''chalk and talk teaching.''
The online lectures were well done, using a professional producer and cameraman. ''It had very much the feel of being in the room,'' Mr. Figlio said. (His co-authors were Mark Rush, an economist at the University of Florida, and Lu Yin, a Florida graduate student.)
So what accounts for the difference in outcomes? Mr. Figlio has a few theories. For the poorer performance of males and lower-achievers, he says the time-shifting convenience of the Web made it easier for students to put off viewing the lectures and cram just before the test, a tactic unlikely to produce the best possible results.
The lower performance by Hispanic students online, Mr. Figlio said, might be attributable to missing the body language of the lecturer and other classroom cues, which could be more important to a student whose first language is not English. Online, he added, students lose the ability to ask an immediate question in class, during breaks or right after the lecture.
A policy issue raised by the study, Mr. Figlio said, was whether a shift to online education will serve to widen the achievement gap between the best students and others. Mr. Figlio says he uses online teaching tools and finds them valuable.
''But what we are saying is that there's no free lunch'' in the drive to online education, he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (89%); WRITERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LAKES (69%); GRADES & GRADING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



381 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Candidates Face Long Odds Against Gillibrand

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
They are the three dark horsemen in the race for the United States Senate from New York, kicking up cloudlets of dust as they canter toward the Republican primary election on Tuesday and a dubious distinction that Rudolph W. Giuliani, George E. Pataki, Theodore Roosevelt IV, Mortimer B. Zuckerman and Dan Senor considered pursuing but rejected: the strong likelihood of losing big in November to the Democratic incumbent, Kirsten E. Gillibrand.
Despite a spirited and testy fight, the Republican primary contest has generated little interest. Recent polls have shown that most Republican voters do not know enough about any of the three candidates to form an opinion, with many saying they have not decided whom to support. Ms. Gillibrand, meanwhile, enjoyed a considerable lead in recent polls over her closest potential rival. 
Yet, Bruce A. Blakeman, a former Nassau County legislator; Joseph J. DioGuardi, a former member of the House from Westchester County; and David Malpass, a former chief economist at Bear Stearns, are gamely vying for the nomination at the same time as a two-way Republican race for governor in which the winner will face even longer odds against the Democrat, Andrew M. Cuomo.
Still, in a year when incumbents and Democrats are considered particularly vulnerable, Ms. Gillibrand has recorded relatively low approval ratings in recent polls. Moreover, before being appointed to an interim term by Gov. David A. Paterson, she was a somewhat obscure upstate congresswoman, and she has never run statewide. Democratic Party leaders, fearful that she would be vulnerable to opponents in her own party, intervened to dissuade potential rivals from running against her, including Harold E. Ford Jr., a former congressman from Tennessee.
While none of the three Republicans seeking her Senate seat are household names, neither was Alfonse M. D'Amato, who was a Long Island town supervisor before he was elected to the Senate in 1980.
But Mr. D'Amato, who was the last Republican to represent New York in the Senate, expressed doubt in an interview that any of the three potential challengers could unseat Ms. Gillibrand (who was an intern in Mr. D'Amato's Albany office when she was in college; he is also close to her father). As of Aug. 25, she had raised $11.2 million and had more than $4.5 million on hand.
''There's no one who has the economic wherewithal,'' Mr. D'Amato said. ''This is the year of the protest. There was a vacuum, and it has not been filled. I think she is a prohibitive favorite.''
Even if the Republican nominee is defeated, though, a credible campaign might help the party in other races, including its effort to recapture the State Senate.
Mr. Blakeman, 54, is the designated candidate of the Republican State Committee. He is a lawyer who lives in Manhattan and who was a Nassau legislator in the 1990s.
''He's the only person in the race who actually cut spending as a legislator,'' said a senior adviser, Chris Cianciulli, who estimated that Mr. Blakeman would spend about $800,000 on his primary campaign.
Mr. Blakeman ran unsuccessfully for state comptroller in 1998, but perhaps was better known because his estranged wife became romantically involved with Paul McCartney. Mr. Blakeman described Ms. Gillibrand as ''the unelected incumbent appointed by an unpopular governor'' and said Mr. DioGuardi was a congressman who failed to hew to a conservative Republican agenda.
Mr. DioGuardi, 69, has been leading in most primary polls and has the endorsement of the Conservative Party, which is crucial to Republicans running statewide. When he was elected in 1985 to the first of two terms in the House from Westchester, he championed himself as the first practicing certified public accountant in Congress. His daughter is a songwriter and has been a judge on ''American Idol.''
Mr. DioGuardi estimates his campaign will cost about $1.5 million, and says that unlike his rivals, he knows his way around Washington. He warns against ''spending money we don't have.''
''Am I just a politician? No,'' he said. ''I'm a businessman. I'm Gillibrand's worst nightmare.''
Mr. Malpass, 54, served as deputy assistant Treasury secretary under President Ronald Reagan and deputy assistant secretary of state under President George Bush.
Mr. Malpass received enough votes from the party's state committee to have his name placed on the primary ballot. He distinguishes himself from his rivals by highlighting his training and background as an economist with ''world-class financial skills.''
''I'm a political outsider; they're career politicians,'' he said. He expects to spend $1 million to $2 million on his candidacy, which has been endorsed by Mr. Giuliani.
Mr. Malpass said of Ms. Gillibrand: ''Through her votes and through her inactions, she has not served New Yorkers well. A decisive message of controlling spending and bringing back accountability to government is a winning formula.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BRUCE A. BLAKEMAN: A former Nassau County legislator, Mr. Blakeman, 54, is the Republican State Committee's pick. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
JOSEPH J. DIOGUARDI: Mr. DioGuardi, 69, a former member of the House, has the backing of the Conservative Party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 DAVID MALPASS: A former Bear Stearns economist, Mr. Malpass, 54, won enough votes to get on the primary ballot. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); APPOINTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (79%); DAVID PATERSON (78%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



382 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: At Goldman, Partners Are Made, and Unmade

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
On Wall Street, becoming a partner at Goldman Sachs is considered the equivalent of winning the lottery.
This fall, in a secretive process, some 100 executives will be chosen to receive this golden ticket, bestowing rich pay packages and an inside track to the top jobs at the company.
What few outside Goldman know is that this ticket can also be taken away.
As many as 60 Goldman executives could be stripped of their partnerships this year to make way for new blood, people with firsthand knowledge of the process say. Inside the firm, the process is known as ''de-partnering.'' Goldman does not disclose who is no longer a partner, and many move on to jobs elsewhere; some stay, telling few of their fate.
''I have friends who have been de-partnered who are still there, and most people inside think they are still partners,'' said one former Goldman executive, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity. ''It is something you just don't talk about.'' 
Goldman has roughly 35,000 employees, but only 375 or so partners. The former Treasury Secretaries Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Robert E. Rubin, and former Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, now chief executive of financial firm MF Global, were all partners.
It can take years to make partner, and being pushed from the inner circle can be wrenching.
''Being partner at Goldman is the pinnacle of Wall Street; if you make it, you are considered set for life,'' said Michael Driscoll, a visiting professor at Adelphi University and a senior managing director at Bear Stearns before that firm collapsed in 2008. ''To have it taken away would just be devastating to an individual. There is just no other word for it.''
The financial blow can be substantial as well. Executives stripped of partnership would retain their base salary, roughly $200,000, but their bonuses could be diminished, potentially costing them millions of dollars in a good year.
While gaining the coveted status of partner, and then losing it, is certainly not unheard-of at private financial and law firms on Wall Street, Goldman's partnership process stands out for its size and intricacy.
Goldman weeds out partners because it is worried that if the partnership becomes too big, it will lose its cachet and become less of a motivational tool for talented up-and-comers, people involved in the process say. If too many people stay, it creates a logjam.
The average tenure of a partner is about eight years, in part because of natural attrition and retirements. Goldman insiders also note they have what they call an ''up-and-out'' culture, leading to the active management of the pool.
The process of vetting new candidates for partner and deciding which existing partners must go began in earnest in recent weeks, according to people with knowledge of the process, which takes place every two years. They spoke on the condition of anonymity. The 2010 partners will most likely be announced in November.
Candidates are judged on many qualities, primarily their financial contribution to the firm. But lawyers and risk managers -- who are not big revenue producers -- can also make it to the inner circle.
The executives responsible for running the partner process this year are the vice chairmen, J. Michael Evans, Michael S. Sherwood and John S. Weinberg; the head of human resources, Edith W. Cooper; and the bank's president, Gary D. Cohn.
Goldman typically removes 30 or so partners every two years, said those people who described the process. The number is expected to be significantly higher this year because fewer senior executives have left the firm as a sluggish economy and uncertain markets limit their opportunities elsewhere.
Removing partners like this is unique to Goldman among publicly traded firms. When companies go public, they shed the private partnership system, and ownership of the company is transferred to shareholders. Goldman's ownership was also transferred to shareholders, but it created a hybrid partner model as an incentive for employees.
Those whom Goldman does not want to keep are likely to be quietly told in the coming weeks. Each situation is handled differently, the people with knowledge of the process say. Some partners are given time to find other jobs outside the firm. Others are told they will not be made partner and are asked to consider what they want to do next within the company.
While Goldman is on track to remove many more executives than usual, the process is in its early stages and no final decisions have been made, these people caution.
A Goldman spokesman declined to comment on how it selects and removes partners.
The process is at the heart of Goldman's culture, a way for the firm to reward and retain top talent. Goldman was one of the last of the big Wall Street partnerships to go public, selling shares in 1999.
When it was private, the partners were the owners, sharing in the profits, and in some cases having to put in money to shore up losses. To retain that team spirit as a public company, Goldman continued to name partners. In 1999, there were 221.
Yet there are differences from past practices. When Goldman was a private partnership, it was rare that a partner would be asked to leave.
''Once you made partner, you typically retired as a partner,'' said another former Goldman executive who used to be involved in the process. ''If we asked someone to leave, it was because we had really screwed up and the person wasn't pulling their weight.''
It has been a rough year for Goldman. In July, it paid $550 million to settle civil fraud accusations that it had duped clients by selling mortgage securities while failing to make critical disclosures. The firm did not admit or deny guilt.
Still, even in the worst of years, the chance to ascend into the private partnership at Goldman is a huge honor. Candidates can be up for partnership two or even three times before finally being chosen.
Partners get investment opportunities not offered to other employees, and are typically the highest paid at the firm. Goldman will even book tables for them at fashionable New York restaurants.
A big payday is not guaranteed, however. When the firm does not do well, partners tend to bear the brunt of it.
Top Goldman executives did not receive bonuses in 2008, the peak of the financial crisis. But in 2007, a banner year for Goldman, the firm set aside $20.19 billion for compensation and benefits, and its chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, took home $68.5 million in stock and cash.
Candidates for partner are vetted by current partners. The review process is known inside Goldman as ''cross-ruffing,'' a reference to a maneuver in bridge. A few hundred people are typically nominated within the whole company, and the number is eventually whittled down to about 100.
Each department compiles a list of potential candidates, with photos and performance reviews. Partners in another department review it. Candidates are not interviewed, and in many cases are unaware they are even up for partner.
When final decisions are made, it is usually Mr. Blankfein who breaks the good news to the new partners. Few candidates ever find out why they missed the cut.
And Goldman announces only inductees, not those who have been removed. Still, there may be a few telltale signs this year.
Goldman recently moved to a new building, just steps away from the Hudson River in Lower Manhattan. Outer offices are hard to come by, and typically given only to partners. Goldman insiders are already speculating that de-partnered executives who decide to stay will have to give up their window view.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new Lower Manhattan headquarters for Goldman Sachs, where window views will be at a premium. Former partners at the firm include, from top, the former Treasury Secretaries Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Robert E. Rubin, and New Jersey's former governor, Jon S. Corzine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); LOTTERIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%); HENRY PAULSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



383 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Critical of Wall Street

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Wall St. Booster, in Primary Bid, Shifts From Shouts to Murmurs'' (front page, Sept. 8): 
It is simply not the case that I have changed my position on Wall Street and financial reform. In fact, I have been consistent on this issue since the start of my campaign, regardless of the political price I continue to pay for it.
In a Feb. 16 Huffington Post op-ed article, I wrote, ''Wall Street needs to stop obstructing reform in Washington,'' and I expressed my desire for Wall Street to be a well-regulated partner with Washington to create jobs.
For months, both before and after the passage of financial reform legislation, I have argued publicly that credit rating agency reform was a glaring omission from the reform effort that must be addressed to prevent a future financial crisis.
Nor have I shied away from my Wall Street experience, which I believe could have helped to shape a better bill than the legislation signed by the president.
Reshma Saujani New York, Sept. 8, 2010
The writer is a Democratic candidate for Congress, 14th District of New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); JOB CREATION (68%); CREDIT BUREAUS (53%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



384 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include retail sales for August and business inventories for July (Tuesday); import prices for August and industrial production and capacity utilization for August (Wednesday); the Producer Price Index for August, the current account deficit for the second quarter, weekly jobless claims, and the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing index for September (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for August and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence index for September (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Best Buy and Kroger (Tuesday); and FedEx, Pier 1 Imports, Oracle and Research In Motion (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The Environmental Protection Agency will hold a public hearing to discuss requirements for greenhouse-gas permits under the Clean Air Act (Tuesday). A House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing on the future of housing finance (Wednesday). The House Ways and Means Committee will conduct a hearing on China's exchange rate policy (Wednesday). Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will testify before two Congressional committees on international exchange rate policies (Thursday).
WORLDWIDE Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China will speak at a meeting of the World Economic Forum in Tianjin, China (Monday). A joint conference between the International Monetary Fund and the International Labor Organization will take place in Oslo; the speakers will include Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the managing director of the I.M.F.; Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain; Prime Minister George Papandreo of Greece; and Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister (Monday). The World Trade Organization is expected to release a ruling on whether government support for Boeing violated global trade rules (Wednesday). Tony Hayward, above, the chief executive of BP, will testify before the British Parliament on implications of the Gulf of Mexico spill (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (67%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (57%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%); BOEING CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (54%)

TICKER: PIR (NYSE) (57%); RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (57%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (57%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (59%); TONY HAYWARD (58%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (52%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%); WEN JIABAO (51%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%); GULF OF MEXICO (70%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010



385 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: For the Bad News Bulls, Adversity Is Opportunity

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- For the better part of a year, a small band of investors and economists has been arguing that the torrent of grim news on jobs and the stagnating United States economy is shrouding an immutable fact: the recovery is at hand -- you just can't see it yet.
At a time when fear-stricken hedge funds are stocking up on gold, retail investors are fleeing the stock market and gloom-peddling economists like Nouriel Roubini are commanding the airwaves, making a bullish case for stocks can be lonely, dispiriting work.
But therein lies the opportunity for investors like John A. Paulson, the hedge fund executive who made billions by betting on a housing crash, and Bill Miller, the mutual fund manager at Legg Mason Capital Management who is best known for his 15-year streak of beating the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
Mr. Paulson has big stakes in companies like Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase as well as in the French automaker Renault. Mr. Miller is betting on I.B.M. and Citigroup, and says that stock in large American companies has not been this cheap, compared with bonds, since 1951.
''The corporate earnings of both European exporters and U.S. companies have exceeded analyst estimates,'' Mr. Paulson wrote in a letter to investors this summer. ''The S.& P. 500 now trades at only 13.8 times 2010 estimates, well below the 30-year average of 19.5.''
So far, the returns have been hard in coming.
Mr. Paulson's Recovery fund was down 9 percent in August, and over the last three years Mr. Miller's main fund is down 16.5 percent, compared with a 10 percent decline in the S.& P. 500.
For many analysts, the idea that one should ignore the chief economic indicators is absurd -- especially when some suggest that the world's largest economy may be heading into another slump.
''To steal a march on the market, one should follow the leading indicators closely,'' Albert Edwards, a well-known bearish strategist at Societe Generale, wrote in a note last week. He is forecasting a 50 percent retreat for the S.& P. 500. ''These are variously pointing either to a hard landing or, at best, a decisive slowdown.''
The bad news bulls do not dispute that the relentless beat of lost jobs and sagging house sales represents a serious economic threat.
But they argue that in many respects this avalanche of bad news has little bearing for a growing number of corporations that are making money by relying more on technology, borrowing at rock-bottom rates and increasing sales to galloping overseas markets in China, Brazil and India.
''Yes, the job numbers are frightening,'' said Michael Hintze, the founder of CQS Management, a fixed-income hedge fund based in London. ''But that does not affect a company like Glaxo, which sells a value-added product into markets like China, the U.K. and Indonesia.''
No doubt, the indicators of fear remain powerful.
They include the persistence of net short positions on the broad indexes, meaning that investors have more money riding on a market fall than on a market rise, and, despite low interest rates, the still relatively high cost of financing for banks, which curtails lending. A rising number of large Wall Street banks says the likelihood of a second recession is increasing, and most significant, the notion is still widely held that house prices in the United States will not soon recover.
Mr. Hintze, who manages about $6.8 billion, refers to what is commonly known in financial circles as an ''upcrash,'' in which a market consumed with negativity finally realizes that things are not so bad. Investors begin to climb the wall of fear, producing a sharp, and in some cases, long-lasting rally.
What Mr. Hintze and other like-minded investors are betting on is that in spite of the combination of high sovereign debt and unemployment figures, global companies with worldwide brands and limited leverage are in a position to drive a longer, more sustained stock market boom.
But for that to happen, they say, investors must break free of a tendency to either stay on the sidelines or to continue selling whenever there is a bad report on jobs or housing.
''Apple does not depend on U.S. housing starts, nor does BMW,'' said David F. Marvin, chairman of Marvin & Palmer Associates, an institutional global equity fund based in Wilmington, Del.
Since 2007, Mr. Marvin's assets under management have shrunk to $4.6 billion, from $12 billion, and he concedes that it has been hard to persuade clients to take risks, given what has happened since 2008.
''When you are burned that badly you get cautious,'' he said. ''But there is a real boom going on now in emerging markets from China to Korea and India, where incomes are rising and there is demand for the upscale products that LVMH and Mercedes produce.''
In a report on the United States economy published in July, the director of economic research for the Milken Institute, Ross C. DeVol, pointed out that in the second quarter, corporate investment in equipment and software increased at an annualized rate of 24.9 percent as companies made use of available cash and easy borrowing terms to become less reliant on human workers.
''It's a bit of a disconnect because this will retard job growth,'' Mr. DeVol said, ''but companies are becoming more efficient.''
Mr. DeVol is forecasting United States unemployment of about 7.7 percent at the end of 2012, a high figure for the country but one that he argues reflects the fact that many people who lost their jobs in the recession will not be qualified to re-enter the work force.
And therein lies the rub. Is the rise of a global corporate elite, increasingly dependent on markets like China, India, Turkey and Brazil, enough to generate a broad-based stock market recovery even as house prices sink and good jobs remain increasingly difficult to find in the United States and Europe?
Hedge funds, generally seen to be the most courageous of investors, remain for the most part on the sidelines. Prime brokers say that many of the big funds, hurt by poor performance this year, are largely unwilling to take on significant leverage and make a bet on stocks.
All of which leaves the bad news bulls in a distinct minority, rarely seen and not often heard -- for now at least.
''The prevailing view is definitely negative,'' said Byron R. Wien, global strategist for the Blackstone Group, adding that he had begun to observe a tendency for investors to take on more risk. ''But that provides an opportunity for optimists.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three market optimists. From left, John A. Paulson, president of Paulson & Company
Bill Miller, chairman of Legg Mason Capital Management
Michael Hintze, chief of CQS Management. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICK MAIMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS
TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 SIMON NEWMAN/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%)

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (82%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); LEGG MASON CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (55%)

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (82%); RNO (BIT) (82%); JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); GLE (PAR) (55%); GLE (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



386 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: A Technology Sets Inventors Free to Dream

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Businesses in the South Park district of San Francisco generally sell either Web technology or sandwiches and burritos. Bespoke Innovations plans to sell designer body parts.
The company is using advances in a technology known as 3-D printing to create prosthetic limb casings wrapped in embroidered leather, shimmering metal or whatever else someone might want.
Scott Summit, a co-founder of Bespoke, and his partner, an orthopedic surgeon, are set to open a studio this fall where they will sell the limb coverings and experiment with printing entire customized limbs that could cost a tenth of comparable artificial limbs made using traditional methods. And they will be dishwasher-safe, too.
''I wanted to create a leg that had a level of humanity,'' Mr. Summit said. ''It's unfortunate that people have had a product that's such a major part of their lives that was so underdesigned.'' 
A 3-D printer, which has nothing to do with paper printers, creates an object by stacking one layer of material -- typically plastic or metal -- on top of another, much the same way a pastry chef makes baklava with sheets of phyllo dough.
The technology has been radically transformed from its origins as a tool used by manufacturers and designers to build prototypes.
These days it is giving rise to a string of never-before-possible businesses that are selling iPhone cases, lamps, doorknobs, jewelry, handbags, perfume bottles, clothing and architectural models. And while some wonder how successfully the technology will make the transition from manufacturing applications to producing consumer goods, its use is exploding.
A California start-up is even working on building houses. Its printer, which would fit on a tractor-trailer, would use patterns delivered by computer, squirt out layers of special concrete and build entire walls that could be connected to form the basis of a house.
It is manufacturing with a mouse click instead of hammers, nails and, well, workers. Advocates of the technology say that by doing away with manual labor, 3-D printing could revamp the economics of manufacturing and revive American industry as creativity and ingenuity replace labor costs as the main concern around a variety of goods.
''There is nothing to be gained by going overseas except for higher shipping charges,'' Mr. Summit said.
A wealth of design software programs, from free applications to the more sophisticated offerings of companies including Alibre and Autodesk, allows a person to concoct a product at home, then send the design to a company like Shapeways, which will print it and mail it back.
''We are enabling a class of ordinary people to take their ideas and turn those into physical, real products,'' said J. Paul Grayson, Alibre's chief executive. Mr. Grayson said his customers had designed parts for antique cars, yo-yos and even pieces for DNA analysis machines.
''We have a lot of individuals going from personal to commercial,'' Mr. Grayson said.
Manufacturers and designers have used 3-D printing technology for years, experimenting on the spot rather than sending off designs to be built elsewhere, usually in Asia, and then waiting for a model to return. Boeing, for example, might use the technique to make and test air-duct shapes before committing to a final design.
Depending on the type of job at hand, a typical 3-D printer can cost from $10,000 to more than $100,000. Stratasys and 3D Systems are among the industry leaders. And MakerBot Industries sells a hobbyist kit for under $1,000.
Moving the technology beyond manufacturing does pose challenges. Customized products, for example, may be more expensive than mass-produced ones, and take longer to make. And the concept may seem out of place in a world trained to appreciate the merits of mass consumption.
But as 3-D printing machines have improved and fallen in cost along with the materials used to make products, new businesses have cropped up.
Freedom of Creation, based in Amsterdam, designs and prints exotic furniture and other fixtures for hotels and restaurants. It also makes iPhone cases for Apple, eye cream bottles for L'Oreal and jewelry and handbags for sale on its Web site.
Various designers have turned to the company for clothing that interlaces plastic to create form-hugging blouses, while others have requested spiky coverings for lights that look as if they could be the offspring of a sea urchin and a lamp shade.
''The aim was always to bring this to consumers instead of keeping it a secret at NASA and big manufacturers,'' said Janne Kyttanen, 36, who founded Freedom of Creation about 10 years ago. ''Everyone thought I was a lunatic when we started.''
His company can take risks with ''out there'' designs since it doesn't need to print an object until it is ordered, Mr. Kyttanen said. Ikea can worry about mass appeal.
LGM, based in Minturn, Colo., uses a 3-D printing machine to create models of buildings and resorts for architectural firms.
''We used to take two months to build $100,000 models,'' said Charles Overy, the founder of LGM. ''Well, that type of work is gone because developers aren't putting up that type of money anymore.''
Now, he said, he is building $2,000 models using an architect's design and homegrown software for a 3-D printer. He can turn around a model in one night.
Next, the company plans to design and print doorknobs and other fixtures for buildings, creating unique items. ''We are moving from handcraft to digital craft,'' Mr. Overy said.
But Contour Crafting, based in Los Angeles, has pushed 3-D printing technology to its limits.
Based on research done by Dr. Behrokh Khoshnevis, an engineering professor at the University of Southern California, Contour Crafting has created a giant 3-D printing device for building houses. The start-up company is seeking money to commercialize a machine capable of building an entire house in one go using a machine that fits on the back of a tractor-trailer.
The 3-D printing wave has caught the attention of some of the world's biggest technology companies. Hewlett-Packard, the largest paper-printer maker, has started reselling 3-D printing machines made by Stratasys. And Google uses the CADspan software from LGM to help people using its SketchUp design software turn their creations into 3-D printable objects.
At Bespoke, Mr. Summit has built a scanning contraption to examine limbs using a camera. After the scan, a detailed image is transmitted to a computer, and Mr. Summit can begin sculpting his limb art.
He uses a 3-D printer to create plastic shells that fit around the prosthetic limbs, and then wraps the shells in any flexible material the customer desires, be it an old bomber jacket or a trusty boot.
''We can do a midcentury modern or a Harley aesthetic if that's what someone wants,'' Mr. Summit said. ''If we can get to flexible wood, I am totally going to cut my own leg off.''
Mr. Summit and his partner, Kenneth B. Trauner, the orthopedic surgeon, have built some test models of full legs that have sophisticated features like body symmetry, locking knees and flexing ankles. One artistic design is metal-plated in some areas and leather-wrapped in others.
''It costs $5,000 to $6,000 to print one of these legs, and it has features that aren't even found in legs that cost $60,000 today,'' Mr. Summit said.
''We want the people to have input and pick out their options,'' he added. ''It's about going from the Model T to something like a Mini that has 10 million permutations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scott Summit, above, co-founder of Bespoke Innovations, with a prosthetic limb. Charles Overy, left, founder of LGM, with a model of a resort in Vail, Colo. ''We used to take two months to build $100,000 models,'' he said, adding that now they cost about $2,000. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (77%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AUTODESK INC (58%)

TICKER: ADSK (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



387 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Wall St., Reassured, Extends Its Rally

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Investors looking for reassurances about the health of the global economy received just that Monday.
Stocks extended their rally into a third week after global regulators agreed to new rules for how much money banks must hold in reserves, China reported that its economy remained robust and companies announced a flurry of takeovers.
''The package of catalysts is a perfect backdrop for a market trying to confirm global economic growth,'' said Quincy Krosby, a market strategist at Prudential Financial. Deal making and the expansion in China further reduced worries about the economy falling back into recession, Mr. Krosby said. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 81 points for its eighth gain in the last nine days. The Dow did close off its high after some traders pulled money out of retail stocks ahead of the government's monthly retail sales report scheduled for Tuesday.
But overall sentiment remained positive, pushing major indexes to their highest closes in more than a month and the Dow, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index all back into positive territory for the year.
Hewlett-Packard agreed to buy the security software provider ArcSight, and the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group said it had accepted the acquisition offer of Hertz Global Holdings. Acquisitions are often a sign that companies are confident the economy is going to expand soon.
Global regulators agreed to reforms that could help avoid another credit crisis like the one that plagued financial markets worldwide in 2008 and early 2009. Banks will gradually have to increase their reserves to protect against potential losses.
''The agreement itself was a little lighter than expected,'' said Mitch Schlesinger, managing director at FBB Capital. Reserve requirements will be phased in slowly and not be quite as rigorous as expected, reducing short-term worries that banks will have to further cut back on lending and raise cash quickly to meet new standards, he said.
The new regulations have added to confidence in Europe's banks, which have been slower than their counterparts in the United States to bolster reserves.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 81.36 points, or 0.78 percent, to 10,544.13. The S.& P. 500-stock index gained 12.35 points, or 1.11 percent, to 1,121.90, while the Nasdaq composite index jumped 43.23 points, or 1.93 percent, to 2,285.71.
JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America were among the biggest gainers in the financial sector. JPMorgan Chase rose $1.36, or 3.4 percent, to $41.12, while Bank of America increased 40 cents, or 3 percent, to $13.95.
Hewlett-Packard, which has been buying smaller companies in recent months, will pay $1.5 billion, or $43.50 a share, in cash for ArcSight. ArcSight jumped $8.81, or 25 percent, to $43.91, while Hewlett-Packard rose 8 cents, to $38.28.
Hertz agreed to pay $1.43 billion, or $50 a share, for Dollar Thrifty, beating out a competitor, Avis Budget. Shares of Dollar Thrifty rose $2.57, or 5.4 percent, to $50.58, while Hertz gained 79 cents, or 7.9 percent, to $10.84.
Andrew J. Neale, a portfolio manager at Fogel Neale Partners, said the acquisition activity was ''crucial for investors'' because companies that were confident and investing money added to investor confidence.
Oil prices continued to increase. Benchmark crude rose 74 cents, to settle at $77.19 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Treasury prices rose modestly, indicating that not all investors were confident in the latest signs of growth. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 12/32, to 98 30/32, and the yield fell to 2.75 percent from 2.79 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TAKEOVERS (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); RETAIL SALES (68%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (67%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); DOLLAR THRIFTY AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); HTZ (NYSE) (67%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); PRU (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (67%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (67%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



388 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Advice Abroad, From Home

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. LUONGO

 BODY:
Most travel Web sites offer enough information to leisure travelers to make their trip a good one. But business travelers often have different needs. So some are now tapping into alumni and expatriate associations to make personal connections based on shared language, culture and experiences.
Cathy Moore, 49, a consultant from Bloomington, Ind., creates Web-based training programs for companies. She said she was ''the kind of person who can work anywhere in the world,'' provided she had a strong Internet link to speak with clients by Skype. 
''I use expat sites to find out about Internet access, neighborhoods to stay in, visa requirements and expat social events,'' she said. After chatting with members of Yolisto.com, a Web site for expatriates in Mexico, she chose Merida over Guadalajara as a temporary base of operations in Latin America for late fall. She had ruled out Bolivia after chatting with an expatriate in Uruguay she met through the site Sociedad Southron.
''Hotel reviews in TripAdvisor and similar tourism sites are only slightly helpful,'' she said, ''because most reviewers don't have the obsession with connectivity that I do. Expat sites tell me more.''
Amanda Vega, 35, who runs the social media and public relations firm Amanda Vega Consulting, said advice from expatriates helped her expand her ''comfort zone'' rather than ''take the safe bet and stay at Four Seasons or a Ritz.''
A member of the business group Entrepreneurs' Organization, she asked for advice on Italy and Spain from overseas members on ''hotels that are not touristy and will fulfill my needs.'' The recommendations, she said, ''led not only to something more affordable and gave me all the amenities I needed, but put me in the center of things, and I made new contacts.''
Expatriate groups also work for travelers to the United States. Trevor Doerksen, 40, is the chief executive of MoboVivo, a company based in Alberta that helps broadcasters put shows on multiple electronic platforms. Looking to expand into the United States, he contacted C100, a Canadian expatriate group in Silicon Valley formed with cooperation from the Canadian consulate in Palo Alto, Calif. He said the group's mentor network linked ''Canadians working in the valley who could help Canadian entrepreneurs who wanted to work in the valley and build strategic relationships.''
The group's events allowed him, he said, to discuss operational challenges with Canadian expatriates, and he met ''Colombians, Germans, Iranians and Russians, gathered together to pitch to local investors.'' He described his visits as ''an awesome success,'' leading to a contract with the Web application company Appoxy and the opening of a Silicon Valley office.
Reuben Metcalfe, 23-year-old New Zealander, started the company Free Procurement last year and was his country's winner for the 2010 Global Young Entrepreneurs of the Year award, run by the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship and sponsored by Goldman Sachs. In January, he visited New York to receive the prize, and he says he thought, ''How do I leverage this opportunity the absolute most?''
He contacted the American Chamber of Commerce in New Zealand and his own country's trade office. They put him in touch with Geoff Andrews, North America regional manager for Kea, a New Zealand expatriate alliance. Mr. Andrews, 65, who is based in New York, said New Zealand had a uniquely high expatriate population, with 750,000 citizens living abroad out of a population of over four million.
Mr. Metcalfe said that ''Geoff didn't know me from Adam, but he was really helpful.'' He said that he met with New Zealanders working for major corporations in New York. ''It's helpful,'' he said, ''to speak with people who are from where you are from, and learn from their mistakes.''
Alumni networks can provide a similar toehold, but they seem underused, even among major business schools. Stephanie Shaw, the executive administrative manager for the Wharton Business School Club of New York, said she had never seen any business trip advice on the alumni Web boards. Similar responses came from groups at Temple University and the University of California, Los Angeles.
Margaret J. Young, 54, chief executive of the marketing firm Mill Square Group and a Harvard Business School alumnae, said that at most universities, ''the fraternity and sorority groups stay in touch better than the general alumni groups and rely on each other for advice.'' Her company is developing Web-based platforms for college groups to improve business networking, most of which she said was usually now ''one on one and informal.''
But there are exceptions. Roman S. Ponos, who received a master's degree from the Thunderbird School of Global Management in Glendale, Ariz., said he had relied on alumni advice in numerous cases. Mr. Ponos, 42, is a vice president of Carana, an economic development corporation, and is based in Jerusalem.
He has visited more than 20 countries on business in recent years, and he said his school attracted ''people who wanted international careers.'' They are required to have lived overseas before applying. He said that when he traveled he looked at the school's alumni Web site to ''see who was born there or who has worked there, and due to the nature of the school, I always find someone.''
Alex Fogel, 54, based in Atlanta, said it was his high school, Western High School, in Anaheim, Calif., where he is alumni association president, that had been most helpful on his travels. He said he once went to a ''little town I did not recognize,'' near Seattle. Using Facebook and LinkedIn, he said he found a local alumnae and asked her for advice ''on places to stay and the geography and she advised to go a different way, to avoid school bus traffic.'' The two also met for dinner and caught up.
Mr. Doerksen, the MoboVivo chief executive, said more people should consider reaching out to alumni and expatriate groups. ''It is fantastic networking,'' he said, adding, ''It costs you nothing, and the relationships and opportunities are better than what you pay for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Trevor Doerksen, left, chief of MoboVivo, and Ron Piovesan, a mentor with a Canadian expatriate group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (77%); WEB BASED TRAINING (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (85%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (90%); ALBERTA, CANADA (52%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); URUGUAY (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (71%); SPAIN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



389 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Angry Voters? For Many, Disillusioned Is More Like It

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Sam Dolnick, Elizabeth A. Harris and Tim Stelloh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Uprising. Revolt. Judgment day. These are the words on the lips of aspiring insurgent candidates across New York, Republicans and Democrats alike, who have campaigned for months on hopes that a wave of voter anger will carry them to victory and upend the entrenched political establishment in Albany.
Yet on the eve of the first major statewide election in four years, many voters are striking a markedly different chord. They are not bursting with rage, but spent with exhaustion. Disappointed and hopeless, many are disdainful of Albany's would-be white knights and skeptical of the rhetoric of change.
''All they're doing is musical chairs,'' Michael Alton, 59, a registered Democrat, said Monday as he walked his dog along Bainbridge Avenue in the Bronx. ''There's no reason to vote. State government isn't up to the challenge.''
Unlike past election years, this one has genuinely competitive primaries. On the Republican side, there is a fierce battle between former Representative Rick A. Lazio and Carl P. Paladino, a wealthy real estate developer from Buffalo, for the party's nomination for governor. Democrats have five choices for attorney general. Incumbent lawmakers of both parties face tough races from Long Island to the Hudson Valley to Buffalo. 
Yet many voters say that for all the energy and money that have gone into those campaigns, and despite the millions spent on campaign advertisements and direct mailings, they are unwilling to invest themselves in the races.
''If you start a new job,'' said Minphay Chiou, a mother of two from Manhattan, ''you hope you'll have a great workplace and a great boss. But you can't really learn much from a job interview. It's the same with the candidates. They are interviewing with us, but who knows what we'll see when they get there?'' When it comes to Albany, Ms. Chiou said, ''the people in my life feel there's not much they can do.''
For Democrats, such emotions might reflect the fact that their party has controlled state government for the past two years, yet property taxes are still crushing and jobs scarce.
Andrew M. Cuomo, who has earned high approval ratings for his performance as the state's attorney general and is the unchallenged Democratic candidate for governor, inspires in some voters fond wishes rather than actual hope.
''Even if he gets a lot of votes, I don't know if he can change anything,'' Michael Singer, 59, a government employee, said as he sat on a bench in front of a Target store in Brooklyn. ''My vote can help elect someone new, but can it make changes? I'm not sure.''
Republicans are not necessarily more sanguine about their choices.
''I'm not really angry; I'm more disappointed,'' Jinah-Rigaud Haig, a teacher's aide who has been unemployed for the past year, said as she waited for a bus on Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn. Ms. Haig said she voted Republican in past elections but was thinking of sitting out this one.
She said she was disenchanted by Republican attacks on the Muslim community center and mosque planned near ground zero, and also mindful that two successive Democratic governors promised and failed to change Albany for the better.
''To me, it's all mumbo-jumbo,'' she said. ''It's all rhetoric, no action. Nothing has been done.''
Voter enthusiasm is difficult to measure or predict. Among the advocates pushing for a wholesale housecleaning in Albany, there remains plenty of optimism that the predicted anti-incumbent fervor will materialize.
''I think you'll always hear that in elections, but I think there is more of a sense that there is an opportunity, a chance to bring new blood to Albany,'' said Mark Botnick, a co-executive director of New York Uprising, a nonpartisan group urging lawmakers to sign a pledge committing themselves to support stricter ethics laws. ''We just need to educate voters and let them know they have a choice.''
In the Buffalo area in particular, some voters have shown genuine passion for Mr. Paladino, who has gained steadily on Mr. Lazio, the designee of his party.
''He's kind of crazy, but he really wants something different from government,'' said Frank Klug, 47, a machinist who makes airplane parts. ''I like the way he talks; he tells it how it is.''
In the Bronx, the Democratic primary between the State Senate majority leader, Pedro Espada Jr., and his challenger, Gustavo Rivera, has become a cause celebre for party activists and good-government groups eager to unseat Mr. Espada.
''I've been hearing a lot about Gustavo; he sounds positive,'' said Eusebio Rosado, 37, a housekeeper and a registered Democrat. ''He's going to get my vote.''
And not everyone is either angry or despairing. Several people said they were more inclined to blame broader forces in politics -- the two parties, for example, or legislative leaders -- for Albany's problems.
''I'm not angry at all of them; it's par for the course,'' said Melvin Nelson, 48, a supervisor for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. Electing incumbents, Mr. Nelson said, ''gives the people in there a chance to improve.''
''I think they are trying to get better,'' he added. ''They're trying their best.''
Other people, however, said they were left cold by the choices on the table, whether Republican or Democratic.
''If there was a politician I was excited about,'' said Pat Collins, 23, a student at Erie Community College, which has campuses in Buffalo and nearby, ''I'd be a lot more positive about going out and backing somebody. I'm not going to bother.''
Ken Levin, 38, a marketing employee for the banking giant HSBC in Buffalo, said state government was ''atrocious.'' He added, ''I don't know how to fix it.''
To some extent, Albany might be protected by its own failures: many voters said they were too disgusted with the performance of state officials in recent years to listen to what the current crop of candidates had to say.
''Albany is terribly dysfunctional; it is so corrupt and self-interested that it is beyond saving,'' Tom Flahive, 70, said as he sat outside Green Acres Mall in Valley Stream, N.Y.
Others said they were angry about Albany's fiscal policies, noting that spending seemed to grow each year no matter who was in charge and despite pledges of restraint from Democrats and Republicans.
''I've worked hard every day since I've been able to,'' said Elizabeth McCarthy, 44, a registered Democrat who is a counselor for disabled people in the Bronx. ''It bothers me to know that people are misusing money.''
''I don't really believe there's anybody that's going to go there and clean up,'' Ms. McCarthy added. ''It's not going to change no matter who you put in there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carl P. Paladino, a candidate for the Republican nomination for governor, with his dog Duke in downtown Syracuse on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Rick A. Lazio, who is running against Mr. Paladino, at the ferry terminal on Staten Island on Monday, the day before the primary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DiBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)
 Tom Flahive, 70, of Valley Stream, N.Y., said Albany was ''so corrupt and self-interested that it is beyond saving.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY KMONICEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (70%); DOGS (69%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



390 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Imam Talks Compromise on Islamic Center, but Says Site Isn't on Hallowed Ground

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
The imam working on the planned Muslim community center near ground zero said Monday he was open to all options to resolve the fierce dispute surrounding it, while possibly provoking the project's opponents by declaring that the site, two blocks from the former World Trade Center, was not ''hallowed ground.''
Speaking at the Council on Foreign Relations in Manhattan, the imam, Feisal Abdul Rauf, did not say he would be willing to move the center, the location of which opponents describe as insensitive to the memory of those killed by radical Islamists on 9/11. But he vowed to find a way out of the current impasse over its appropriateness. 
''Everything is on the table,'' the imam said. ''We really are focused on solving it, and solving it in a way that will create the best possible outcome for all. I give you my pledge.''
At the same time, he reiterated his view that changing the location might be seen as bowing to intolerance of Islam -- and that the high-profile spot would bring attention to his message of religious harmony.
And, mentioning a column in The New York Times and reports elsewhere that have noted the block includes a bar and an off-track betting office, he said, ''It is absolutely disingenuous, as many have said, that that block is hallowed ground.''
The imam, who has led a mosque 12 blocks from the World Trade Center site since the 1990s and who would run the religious and interfaith programs at the proposed center known as Park51, does not control its location. The real estate developer Sharif el-Gamal does, and he has expressed an unwillingness to move. Mr. Gamal and the project's supporters say that a change of address might not satisfy its critics.
Indeed, a poll by The Daily News and Marist College released Friday found that of the 51 percent of New York City voters who oppose the project's current location, half do not want it anywhere in Lower Manhattan. (Seven percent of those opposed to the projects said five blocks away from ground zero would be enough, 17 percent said 10 blocks, and 23 percent said a mile).
More likely than moving the center, according to project supporters, is to change its uses to further emphasize interfaith activities and worship by people other than Muslims, as Mr. Abdul Rauf suggested last week in an Op-Ed article in The Times.
The center has always envisioned programs to encourage dialogue among people of different religions. But recently, people including Julie Menin, the chairwoman of Community Board One, have floated the idea of an ecumenical prayer area or multiple areas for different religions, as a way of defusing tension and attracting new sources for fund-raising. Ms. Menin said Monday that she expects to meet with the imam this week.
In his speech Monday at the Council, a private group that studies international affairs, Mr. Abdul Rauf said that he has been inundated with offers of help, and would set up a broad group of advisers to help resolve the crisis. He also offered his most personal reflections since returning last week from a State Department-sponsored speaking tour in the Middle East, noting that America gives Muslims freedom they do not have in many Muslim countries. He recalled his shock, as a teenager arriving with his Egyptian family in the 1960s, at a Time magazine cover asking, ''Is God Dead?'' -- and his later realization that the United States was a religious country where religion was optional.
''In that sense, you could say I found my faith in this country,'' he said. ''For me, Islam and America are organically bound together. This is not my story alone. The American way of life has helped many Muslims make a conscious decision to embrace their faith. That choice is precious. And that is why America is precious.''
The lack of such freedoms in many Muslim countries contribute to the sway of violent extremists there, he said, when asked by Richard N. Haass, the group's president, why ''such a high percentage of today's most dangerous terrorists are Muslim.''
The reasons, Mr. Abdul Rauf said, are socioeconomic, religious, and -- mainly -- political. Political disputes, such as the Arab-Israel conflict and wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, have ''sucked in'' religion, he said, drawing a comparison to Ireland, where he said the conflict between Protestants and Catholics were rooted not in theology but in competition for the ''political and economic pie.''
And he offered some new biographical tidbits: A niece serves in the United States Army. He is a Giants fan. ''I'm a typical New Yorker, ladies and gentlemen,'' he said. ''I'm an American.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Feisal Abdul Rauf vowed in Manhattan on Monday to find a way out of the controversy over a planned Islamic Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); RELIGION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); REAL ESTATE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



391 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: A Recovery's Long Odds

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
We can keep wishing and hoping for a powerful economic recovery to pull the U.S. out of its doldrums, but I wouldn't count on it. Ordinary American families no longer have the purchasing power to build a strong recovery and keep it going.
Americans are not being honest with themselves about the structural changes in the economy that have bestowed fabulous wealth on a tiny sliver at the top, while undermining the living standards of the middle class and absolutely crushing the poor. Neither the Democrats nor the Republicans have a viable strategy for reversing this dreadful state of affairs. (There is no evidence the G.O.P. even wants to.) 
Robert Reich, in his new book, ''Aftershock,'' gives us one of the clearest explanations to date of what has happened -- how the United States went from what he calls ''the Great Prosperity'' of 1947 to 1975 to the Great Recession that has hobbled the U.S. economy and darkened the future of younger Americans.
He gives the Obama administration and the Federal Reserve credit for moving quickly in terms of fiscal and monetary policies to prevent the economic crash of 2008 from driving the U.S. into a second great depression. ''But,'' he writes, ''we did not learn the larger lesson of the 1930s: that when the distribution of income gets too far out of whack, the economy needs to be reorganized so the broad middle class has enough buying power to rejuvenate the economy over the longer term.''
The middle class is finally on its knees. Jobs are scarce and good jobs even scarcer. Government and corporate policies have been whacking working Americans every which way for the past three or four decades. While globalization and technological wizardry were wreaking employment havoc, the movers and shakers in government and in the board rooms of the great corporations were embracing privatization and deregulation with the fervor of fanatics. The safety net was shredded, unions were brutally attacked and demonized, employment training and jobs programs were eliminated, higher education costs skyrocketed, and the nation's infrastructure, a key to long-term industrial and economic health, deteriorated.
It's a wonder matters aren't worse.
While all this was happening, working people, including those in the vast middle class, coped as best they could. Women went into the paid work force in droves. Many workers increased their hours or took on second and third jobs. Savings were drained and debt of every imaginable kind -- from credit cards to mortgages to student loans -- exploded.
With those coping mechanisms now exhausted, it's painfully obvious that the economy has failed working Americans.
There was plenty of growth, but the economic benefits went overwhelmingly -- and unfairly -- to those already at the top. Mr. Reich cites the work of analysts who have tracked the increasing share of national income that has gone to the top 1 percent of earners since the 1970s, when their share was 8 percent to 9 percent. In the 1980s, it rose to 10 percent to 14 percent. In the late-'90s, it was 15 percent to 19 percent. In 2005, it passed 21 percent. By 2007, the last year for which complete data are available, the richest 1 percent were taking more than 23 percent of all income.
The richest one-tenth of 1 percent, representing just 13,000 households, took in more than 11 percent of total income in 2007.
That does not leave enough spending power with the rest of the population to sustain a flourishing economy. This is a point emphasized in ''Aftershock.'' Mr. Reich, a former labor secretary in the Clinton administration, writes: ''The wages of the typical American hardly increased in the three decades leading up to the Crash of 2008, considering inflation. In the 2000s, they actually dropped.''
A male worker earning the median wage in 2007 earned less than the median wage, adjusted for inflation, of a male worker 30 years earlier. A typical son, in other words, is earning less than his dad did at the same age.
This is what has happened with ordinary workers as the wealth at the top has soared into the stratosphere.
With so much of the middle class and the rest of working America tapped out, there is not enough consumer demand for the goods and services that the U.S. economy is capable of producing. Without that demand, there are precious few prospects for a robust recovery.
If matters stay the same, with working people perpetually struggling in an environment of ever-increasing economic insecurity and inequality, the very stability of the society will be undermined.
The U.S. economy needs to be rebalanced so that the benefits are shared more widely, more equitably. There are many ways to do this, but what is most important right now is to recognize this central fact, to focus on it and to begin seriously considering the most constructive options.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); STUDENT LOANS (65%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); STUDENT EXPENSES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



392 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Invisible Dog, Off Leash and Reimagined

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
Serendipity can strike at any time. In the 1970s a World War II veteran named George Zorbas took a trip to Europe and returned with a novelty concept that became a runaway hit: the invisible-dog leash. As a visual prank, it fit perfectly in the era of the pet rock. He brought the loopy idea back to his factory in Brooklyn's Boerum Hill neighborhood, where he already produced belts and jewelry, eventually employing as many as 150 people to churn out thousands of the stiff leashes and empty collars, 24 hours a day.
But tastes change. Pet rocks and empty collars were relegated to attics and thrift stores, and fashion accessories were made more cheaply abroad. By 2005, the company was closed, and the space was a relic.
In 2008 Lucien Zayan, a French theater and opera director who was spending a few months in New York, happened by and saw the factory's future -- and his own. Or, as he put it: ''By chance, one day, I met the building. And I immediately fell in love.'' 
Who wouldn't? It's a three-story, 30,000-square foot, 19th-century structure, steps from the bustle of Smith Street and on the same block as a subway stop. Mr. Zayan envisioned it as a multipurpose arts center, with room for studios, galleries and performances. He contacted an owner, Frank DeFalco, who had bought the building with two partners in 2007, and gave his pitch. It was, by the way, just after the financial meltdown.
''One of the first things he asked me was, 'Do you have money to do that?' '' Mr. Zayan recalled. ''And I said, no. And he answered, 'Me either.' '' A deal was born.
Now the Invisible Dog Art Space is fulfilling its promise as a neighborhood hub of creativity. On Sunday, as part of Crossing the Line, the annual festival put on by the French Institute Alliance Francaise, it hosted thousands for Farm City Fair, a Brooklyn ''county fair'' theme event. Visitors sampled (surprisingly good) salmon pastrami cheesecake and baguette-flavored ice cream and learned about rooftop farms, while a brass band played outside. On Thursday, the black-box theater in the gallery's basement will host its first production, a new play by a young playwright. Thirty artists fill the second-floor studios; the airy top floor serves as a desirable party space; and a multimedia installation by the artist Richard Garet is to open in the ground-floor gallery later this month. A shady courtyard offers both refuge and a neighborhood compost pile/environmental installation piece. Mr. Zayan is the building curator, deciding who can exhibit and work there. A year into its recession-era life, Invisible Dog is fostering connections and, even wilder, making money.
''It's an amazing story, where you think, 'Only in New York,' '' said Lili Chopra, the co-curator of the Crossing the Line festival. She met Mr. Zayan last fall and was charmed by the gallery's raw space and his do-it-yourself energy. ''I just thought it was such a great labor of love,'' she said, ''and completely in the spirit of what's happening in Brooklyn now.''
Though he'd had a successful career in France, Mr. Zayan had never worked here. But after getting the green light from the building's owners -- they'd hoped to turn the space into condominiums until the recession intervened -- he sold off most of his possessions, left his apartment in Paris and moved to Brooklyn in April 2009.
''My friends were stupefied when I told them, 'I'm going to New York to create the Invisible Dog Art Center,' '' Mr. Zayan said. ''I was alone here, without any friends, without any contacts, just this building and nothing else.''
Searching for inspiration, he went to the Museum of Modern Art. (''Some people go to the church, I went to the MoMA.'') There he saw a retrospective of the German artist Martin Kippenberger, full of meticulously arranged objects. He returned to the Invisible Dog, scoured the basement, still stacked with belts, jewelry and other bric-a-brac, and opened a flea market.
From May to July 2009, he sold that inventory for a dollar or two an item. With $300,000 invested by Mr. DeFalco and his partners, he earned enough to open the space in October of that year, but barely made a dent in the leftover stuff, which is now being harvested as material for the building and its artists. Mr. Zayan pays $25,000 a month in rent, most of it coming from the studios and event space, he said. By his count, 32,000 visitors have passed through in the last year.
''It's a real ecosystem,'' Mr. Zayan, 44, said in an interview last week at Cafe Pedlar, up the street from his gallery. ''Everything works together.''
Ian Trask, a 27-year-old artist making the transition from a career in science, first came to Invisible Dog in November for a recession art show. At Mr. Zayan's invitation, he spent three months scavenging in the basement. He turned coils of canvas belts into a three-dimensional painting, which now hangs over the building's freight elevator. Another piece, a 162-foot cardboard worm, is stored downstairs.
''Lucien's been very kind to me,'' said Mr. Trask, now Invisible Dog's first artist-in-residence. ''A lot of my collectors are friends of his. He'd bring people to the basement and say, 'So-and-so wants to buy something.' ''
Gabriel Jones, a photographer who shot the cover art for Arcade Fire's newest album and was one of Invisible Dog's earliest tenants, said it was different from other studio spaces. ''There's always a party, show or an exhibition,'' he said. ''It's a living space.''
Mr. Zayan's landlords, too, are happy with the role the building plays in the neighborhood, where it can serve as an anchor for their other projects. ''We're having a blast,'' Mr. DeFalco said at the Farm City event, which was so popular it opened an hour early and closed late. ''I took a chance with Lucien, but he's done everything that he said he would.''
Mr. Zayan, who has a charming accent and a neat salt-and-pepper beard and who favors spotless Adidas and pristine white shirts, says that -- except for the ability to smoke indoors -- he does not miss Paris. Save for an art student intern, he does everything at Invisible Dog himself.
''It's a lot of work, but it's not too much work,'' he said. He lives next door; for fun he gives haircuts in the courtyard -- as many as five a day, upon request, though he likes curly styles best. He hopes to make Invisible Dog a hangout, ''open six days a week, from 10 in the morning to midnight, with always something happening,'' he said. And though his friends counseled him against the name, calling it stupid, he's glad it stuck: ''It's the history, and history is never stupid.''
When he's low on cash, he sells off a hundred invisible-dog leashes at $20 apiece; boxes of them still sit in the basement, a testament to the tenacity of far-fetched ideas. ''That's my treasure,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Invisible Dog gallery has quickly become a center of activity, including a Farm City festival. (C1)
In the basement of the Invisible Dog Art Space in Brooklyn, Lucien Zayan brandishes one of the namesake props.
 Scenes from Sunday's Farm City Fair, hosted by the Invisible Dog Art Space, included, from left, a food court, a composting project and artists opening their studios to guests.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); WORLD WAR II (78%); DOGS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); EXHIBITIONS (70%); FESTIVALS (69%); DRAMA LITERATURE (68%); WRITERS (66%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



393 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: The New Bank Rules

 BODY:
Sunday's agreement by international banking regulators to require banks to increase their capital cushions should reduce the risk of another financial meltdown. Bankers' appetite for risky investments has not been quenched, and regulators will have to be vigilant. 
The most significant rule approved by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision -- a group of regulators from 27 countries, including the United States -- means banks will have to boost their reserve of common equity (common shares and retained earnings) to 7 percent of their assets, up from 2 percent currently, if they don't want to face limits on dividends they can pay to investors.
The group also suggested that in boom times, national regulators should require banks to set aside up to an additional 2.5 percent of their assets to prevent the emergence of new credit bubbles. Regulators are still hashing out even more stringent capital requirements for the world's biggest banks -- those whose bankruptcy would threaten the entire banking system.
The bankers and their lobbyists did not go quietly. Regulators agreed that the new capital rules won't start to kick in until 2013 and won't be fully in place until 2019. The countercyclical buffer is not a requirement but only a recommendation to national regulators. Provisions to ensure banks have enough money to pay all of their debts coming due over one year were watered down and pushed back until 2018.
There are still weaknesses that banks will almost certainly try to exploit to reduce the amount of capital they must set aside. There are no clear rules on how banks should value liquid assets that are not openly traded, a gap that national regulators will have to fill. The new rules are risk-weighted: the more speculative their investment, the more capital banks must set aside. Yet determining the risks of these assets will still rely largely on the rating agencies that failed so miserably to assess the risk of mortgage-related securities.
Despite the weaknesses, the new rules are a considerable improvement over the status quo, and the United States and the other members of the Group of 20 leading economies should endorse them. Even then, the rules will only be as good as the commitment of national regulators, starting with the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. And given the international nature of banking -- any global regulation will only be as strong as the weakest regulator.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); APPROVALS (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



394 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Credit Suisse to Take Stake in York Capital

 BODY:
By PETER LATTMAN and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED Credit Suisse agreed Tuesday to buy a minority stake in the hedge fund York Capital Management for $425 million. The bank, Switzerland's second largest after UBS, will acquire a one-third stake in York, which manages about $14 billion in assets, according to people with direct knowledge of the deal who were not authorized to speak publicly. The move comes as Wall Street firms wrestle with new federal laws aimed at preventing banks from making risky bets with their own money. The new regulations, including the so-called Volcker Rule, limit how much money banks can place in riskier investments like private equity and hedge funds. 
By structuring the deal as a noncontrol, minority stake in York, whose management team will continue to operate the business independently, Credit Suisse will comply with the new legislation. The investment ''is consistent with the recently enacted U.S. financial reforms,'' the bank said in a statement. Credit Suisse also said that it would not invest its own money into York's funds, though it would market the funds to its clients. Credit Suisse's asset-management group, led by Rob Shafir, has done a number deals in which it has taken stakes in outside investment firms. The bank has a majority interest in Hedging-Griffo, a large Brazilian asset-management firm. It also owns a stake in Global Infrastructure Partners, a private equity firm that invests in infrastructure deals. United States banks have taken different approaches to their investments in hedge funds and private equity firms. Morgan Stanley is considering spinning off a hedge fund, FrontPoint Partners, that it acquired in 2006. It also holds minority stakes in Avenue Capital, Lansdowne Partners and Traxis Partners. A Morgan Stanley spokeswoman declined to comment. Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said at an industry conference on Tuesday that the banking company planned to keep Highbridge Capital Management, a hedge fund with $21 billion in assets under management, as well as One Equity Partners, a private equity unit that manages about $8 billion in assets. And Goldman Sachs sponsors an investment vehicle, Petershill Fund, that takes minority stakes in hedge funds. York was founded with just $5 million in equity capital in 1991 by Jamie Dinan, a former investment banker who is sometimes confused with Mr. Dimon of JPMorgan Chase. York helped pioneer a strategy called ''event-driven investing,'' which grew out of the arbitrage funds of the late 1980s that placed big bets on mergers. York's investments include wagers on the outcome of deals as well as stakes in distressed investments. The firm has performed well during most of its existence, though like many rivals, it suffered during the financial crisis. It reported a 26.4 percent loss in its flagship Multi-Strategy Fund in 2008, according to a letter to investors. It bounced back the next year, reporting a 39.7 percent gain in 2009, according to Hedge Fund Research. York's success has made its founder very wealthy. In 2004, Mr. Dinan paid $21 million for a Fifth Avenue apartment sold by L. Dennis Kozlowski, the fallen former chief executive of Tyco International. Mr. Dinan also owns a horse farm in North Salem, N.Y., about 60 miles northeast of New York City. Under the terms of the Credit Suisse deal, York could receive additional ''earn-out'' payments based on its five-year financial performance. Mr. Dinan and several other principals of the firm also signed retention agreements with Credit Suisse. This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MERGERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); UBS AG (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (92%); CS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); UBSN (SWX) (84%); UBS (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010



395 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Fairness for Older Workers

 BODY:
Fifteen months ago, the Supreme Court's conservative majority mowed past statutory language, Congressional intent and decades of precedent to make it much harder for older workers to prove age discrimination. 
Under the 5-to-4 ruling, it is no longer sufficient for employees claiming illegal age bias to show that age was a motivating factor in their demotion or layoff. They must show that age was the decisive factor, an unfairly tough standard of proof and a major watering down of older workers' civil rights.
Fortunately, the court's mangling of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 need not stand. Legislation introduced last fall by Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa and Representative George Miller of California, both Democrats, would reverse the ruling, once again making the standard for proving age discrimination equivalent to the standard for proving discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion and national origin.
Once a worker showed age discrimination was a factor in his or her treatment, an employer could still win by showing it would have made the same employment decision, regardless of the worker's age.
So far, the measure has attracted no Republican co-sponsors. But standing in the way of fair treatment of older workers is bad policy and bad politics, especially at a moment of soaring unemployment and rising age discrimination claims. This is one of the few areas where progress should be possible even in the charged lead-up to the midterm elections.
In fact, talks are under way among business and civil rights groups, advocates for older people, including AARP, and lawmakers of both parties that could potentially result in a deal on good remedial legislation.
Meantime, the problem is spreading. Some lower federal courts have read the Supreme Court's ruling to raise the bar for employment claims under other statutes, including the Americans With Disabilities Act and the Family and Medical Leave Act.
Prompt Congressional action is needed to contain the damage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGE DISCRIMINATION (94%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (92%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); ELDER LAW (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RELIGION (53%)

PERSON: TOM HARKIN (73%); GEORGE MILLER (US REPRESENTATIVE) (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



396 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: A 'Shoo-In' Struggles In Massachusetts Race

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
BOSTON -- For more than a decade, Republicans in Massachusetts have been rooting for Charlie Baker to run for governor. The timing seemed perfect when Mr. Baker, a turnaround expert who was a whiz-kid aide to two governors in the 1990s, decided to challenge Gov. Deval Patrick this year.
But despite the fervor for change that swept Senator Scott Brown, a fellow Republican, to victory here in January, Mr. Baker, 53, has not sailed to the front of the race. Recent polls have shown Mr. Patrick, a Democrat, leading by five or six points despite low popularity ratings, frustrating those who considered Mr. Baker a shoo-in.
One theory is that Mr. Baker, a Harvard graduate who seems most comfortable talking policy, lacks the populist touch that came naturally to the truck-driving Mr. Brown and that independent voters, who make up 51 percent of the electorate here, seem to crave. 
''The Republicans nationwide are relying more on emotion and revenge,'' said Thomas Whalen, a political historian at Boston University. ''That is not Baker's style at all. He should be running away with it right now, but he's not, and I think that's due to his own personality.''
Others point to an external factor: the presence of Tim Cahill, the state treasurer, in the race as an independent candidate. A Democrat until last year, Mr. Cahill left the party to run for governor and is competing with Mr. Baker for unenrolled and fiscally conservative voters.
Sensing trouble, the Republican Governors Association has spent aggressively on negative advertisements meant to hurt Mr. Cahill. But while polls suggest he is trailing far behind, he could siphon away enough votes to thwart Mr. Baker on Election Day. Mr. Baker and Mr. Patrick are uncontested in their party primaries Tuesday.
The fourth candidate, Jill Stein of the Green-Rainbow Party, is courting liberal voters and could bite into Mr. Patrick's base.
At a Greek festival in Brookline on Saturday, Mr. Baker took a pass on a shot of ouzo that someone handed him but seemed comfortable wading through the crowd and chatting.
After meeting him, Frank Gallozzi of Norfolk, a registered Democrat, said he was leaning toward Mr. Baker despite voting for Mr. Patrick in 2006.
Mr. Gallozzi declared himself uninterested in an emotional connection.
''Now that I'm mature and older I go strictly for the platforms and whether they agree with me,'' he said. ''We need people who are going to work toward getting jobs. Deval's done an O.K. job, but I think this may be a time for him not to be re-elected. I think we just need new blood.''
Mr. Patrick, who is finishing his first term, waited until Sunday to run his first television advertisment. But he is a gifted campaigner, helped by the fact that Massachusetts has weathered the recession relatively well.
''Patrick's principal defense is that things aren't as bad here as they are in most other parts of the nation,'' said Paul Watanabe, a political scientist at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. ''That's not usually a clarion call, but in the absence of anybody making a coherent case against his management of the fiscal nightmare, it may be enough.''
Some of those who met Mr. Baker at the Brookline festival said they resented Mr. Patrick's portraying the state's economy as better than most.
''That's what he keeps on saying, and he patronizes us,'' said Pamela Houlares, a retired principal from Wellesley. ''Charlie Baker is able to tell it like it is, but he's got to have more press and be more vocal about what the governor is doing wrong.''
Mr. Baker did so last week in the first televised debate of the race, painting Mr. Patrick as a reckless spender who had allowed eight tax increases in four years. But Mr. Patrick swung back, blaming Mr. Baker for how the state financed Boston's infamous Big Dig highway project. As the state's budget chief under Govs. William F. Weld and Paul Cellucci, from 1994 to 1998, Mr. Baker wrote a financing plan for the project that Mr. Patrick called ''a great big albatross around the necks'' of taxpayers.
Mr. Patrick, a fellow Harvard graduate, has also seized on Mr. Baker's role as chief executive of one of the state's largest insurers, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, saying he did little to control rising premiums while in charge.
Mr. Patrick, who draws comparisons to President Obama as an African-American who riveted voters in 2006 with an eloquent message of change, is the state's first Democratic governor since Michael S. Dukakis left office in 1991. Mr. Baker said that with both houses of the legislature under Democratic control, he suspected that voters were eager to restore a balance of power.
He acknowledged that he needed more name recognition, but pointed out that Mr. Brown faced the same challenge in the weeks before his victory over Martha Coakley, the state's well-known attorney general.
But while Mr. Brown had Tea Party and other anti-establishment voters behind him, they seem tepid about Mr. Baker. Kenneth Mandile, president of the Worcester Tea Party, said his group was far more excited about helping outsider candidates in a handful of competitive Congressional races.
''I don't have any objections to Charlie Baker really,'' Mr. Mandile said. ''But I'm much more enthusiastic about newcomers. That's why the Congressional races are so exciting; we have people running who aren't so heavily identified with the Republican Party. The anger people are feeling is not just at the Democrats.''
Mr. Mandile said he had not decided for whom to vote in the governor's race and was curious about Mr. Cahill, who has been courting Tea Party voters more overtly than Mr. Baker.
But Mark E. Robinson, who worked with Mr. Baker in the Weld administration and remains an avid supporter, predicted Mr. Cahill would lose traction in the coming weeks.
''People will come to realize as they start to focus on it that Tim Cahill cannot win and a vote for him is a wasted vote,'' Mr. Robinson said. ''Then their choice becomes much more stark and clear: if they want a change, they've got to vote for Charlie.''
On the challenge of connecting with voters, Mr. Baker said he had come a long way.
''I'm much better at walking into a room of people I never met before and trying to connect with as many as I can before I leave,'' he said. ''Believe me, I am connecting with people on stuff they think is important.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charlie Baker, an aide to two Massachusetts governors and now the Republican candidate for the job, last week in Marlborough. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); FESTIVALS (61%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (93%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (79%); SCOTT BROWN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



397 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: The Day After Tomorrow

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Every political movement has a story. The surging Republican Party has a story, too. It is a story of virtue betrayed and innocence threatened.
Through most of its history, the narrative begins, the United States was a limited government nation, with restrained central power and an independent citizenry. But over the years, forces have arisen that seek to change America's essential nature. These forces would replace America's traditional free enterprise system with a European-style cradle-to-grave social democracy.
These statist forces are more powerful than ever in the age of Obama. So it is the duty for those who believe in the traditional American system to stand up and defend the Constitution. There is no middle ground. Every small new government program puts us on the slippery slope toward a smothering nanny state. 
As Paul Ryan and Arthur Brooks put it in The Wall Street Journal on Monday, ''The road to serfdom in America does not involve a knock in the night or a jack-booted thug. It starts with smooth-talking politicians offering seemingly innocuous compromises, and an opportunistic leadership that chooses not to stand up for America's enduring principles of freedom and entrepreneurship.''
Ryan and Brooks are two of the most important conservative thinkers today. Ryan is the leading Republican policy entrepreneur in the House. Brooks is president of the highly influential American Enterprise Institute and a much-cited author. My admiration for both is unbounded.
Yet the story Republicans are telling each other, which Ryan and Brooks have reinforced, is an oversimplified version of American history, with dangerous implications.
The fact is, the American story is not just the story of limited governments; it is the story of limited but energetic governments that used aggressive federal power to promote growth and social mobility. George Washington used industrial policy, trade policy and federal research dollars to build a manufacturing economy alongside the agricultural one. The Whig Party used federal dollars to promote a development project called the American System.
Abraham Lincoln supported state-sponsored banks to encourage development, lavish infrastructure projects, increased spending on public education. Franklin Roosevelt provided basic security so people were freer to move and dare. The Republican sponsors of welfare reform increased regulations and government spending -- demanding work in exchange for dollars.
Throughout American history, in other words, there have been leaders who regarded government like fire -- a useful tool when used judiciously and a dangerous menace when it gets out of control. They didn't build their political philosophy on whether government was big or not. Government is a means, not an end. They built their philosophy on making America virtuous, dynamic and great. They supported government action when it furthered those ends and opposed it when it didn't.
If the current Republican Party regards every new bit of government action as a step on the road to serfdom, then the party will be taking this long, mainstream American tradition and exiling it from the G.O.P.
That will be a political tragedy. There are millions of voters who, while alarmed by the Democrats' lavish spending, still look to government to play some positive role. They fled the G.O.P. after the government shutdown of 1995, and they would do so again.
It would be a fiscal tragedy. Over the next decade there will have to be spending cuts and tax increases. If Republicans decide that even the smallest tax increases put us on the road to serfdom, then there will never be a deal, and the country will careen toward bankruptcy.
It would also be a policy tragedy. Republicans are right to oppose the current concentration of power in Washington. But once that is halted, America faces a series of problems that can't be addressed simply by getting government out of the way.
The social fabric is fraying. Human capital is being squandered. Society is segmenting. The labor markets are ill. Wages are lagging. Inequality is increasing. The nation is overconsuming and underinnovating. China and India are surging. Not all of these challenges can be addressed by the spontaneous healing powers of the market.
Most important, it would be an intellectual tragedy. Conservatism is supposed to be nonideological and context-driven. If all government action is automatically dismissed as quasi socialist, then there is no need to think. A pall of dogmatism will settle over the right.
Republicans are riding a wave of revulsion about what is happening in Washington. But it is also time to start talking about the day after tomorrow, after the centralizing forces are thwarted. I hope that as Arthur Brooks and Paul Ryan lead a resurgent conservatism, they'll think about the limited-but-energetic government tradition, which stands between Barry Goldwater and Francois Mitterrand, but at the heart of the American experience.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); HISTORY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (70%); PHILOSOPHY (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); EDUCATION FUNDING (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



398 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: It's a Busy Day for Voters As They Narrow the Fields

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
A battle for the soul of New York's Republican Party. A wide-open field of Democratic attorney general prospects. A rare opportunity to kick out, or at least send a message, to an embattled congressman. A chance to upend the State Legislature.
And all on new electronic voting machines that will be unveiled statewide for the first time. 
By the end of Tuesday -- unless there is a recount or two -- New Yorkers will have chosen Republican and Democratic nominees to compete in the general election for governor, attorney general, comptroller, both United States Senate seats, and Congressional and state legislative offices.
Political analysts say that turnout is expected to be low -- perhaps 600,000 Democrats and 300,000 Republicans, or 10 percent of registered voters -- and that a good number of contests may end up being close.
Here is what to expect.
GOVERNOR In a tightening battle for the Republican nomination, the party's preferred choice, former Representative Rick A. Lazio, who served four terms in Congress, is trying to fend off a late surge by Carl P. Paladino, a Buffalo businessman. Mr. Paladino, who has been embraced by some Tea Party groups, has attacked Mr. Lazio as a career politician and lobbyist for Wall Street interests. Only in recent days has Mr. Lazio hit back at Mr. Paladino, calling him an extremist who would ''govern by insult.''
ATTORNEY GENERAL In the marquee race on the Democratic side, State Senator Eric T. Schneiderman of Manhattan, who is backed by many liberal groups and labor unions, has gained momentum in recent weeks. But Kathleen M. Rice, the Nassau County district attorney, has fought back, releasing a tough television advertisement over the weekend tying Mr. Schneiderman to a dysfunctional Albany legislature.
Sean Coffey, a Navy veteran and wealthy trial lawyer, is banking on positive television and radio advertisements, especially upstate, and an eclectic mix of endorsers, including Senator Al Franken of Minnesota and The New York Post. Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky and Eric R. Dinallo, a former assistant attorney general, meanwhile, hope that their impressive resumes will propel them to victory.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES In northern Manhattan, Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Democrat from Harlem and the dean of the city's Congressional delegation, is trying to hold off five challengers who say that he is too tainted by ethical clouds and that he should be replaced after 40 years in Washington. The most notable name among them is Assemblyman Adam Clayton Powell IV, whose father, then a House incumbent, was defeated by Mr. Rangel in a 1970 primary.
In a bitterly contested race to represent the East Side of Manhattan, Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a nine-term Democrat, is favored against a young and well-financed hedge fund lawyer, Reshma Saujani.
And in three districts where the Democratic incumbents are viewed as beatable, three Republican primaries could hint at the strength of Tea Party activists.
On Long Island, Randy Altschuler, a self-made businessman with the Conservative Party's support, is slugging it out against Tea Party favorite Christopher Cox, the son of the state Republican chairman, and George Demos, a former prosecutor.
On Staten Island, Michael Grimm, a former F.B.I. undercover agent backed by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Sarah Palin, is trying to wrest the Republican nomination from the preferred candidate of the party's Richmond County organization, Michael Allegretti, a small businessman.
And in upstate New York, Tea Party groups are rallying behind Douglas L. Hoffman, who faces the Republican establishment's pick, Matt Doheny.
UNITED STATES SENATE Three little-known Republicans are fighting for the right to be the heavy underdog in November against Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand. Bruce A. Blakeman, a former Nassau County legislator, is the establishment pick, but former Representative Joseph J. DioGuardi has been leading most polls and has the support of the Conservative Party. David Malpass, a former chief economist at Bear Stearns, has the support of Mr. Giuliani.
Two Republicans are also vying to take on Senator Charles E. Schumer in November: Gary Berntsen, a former C.I.A. officer and the establishment pick, and Jay Townsend, the founder of a market research firm and the favorite of the Conservative Party.
LEGISLATURE The most anticipated race involves State Senator Pedro Espada Jr., a Bronx Democrat who is facing civil corruption charges. A wide array of groups is backing Mr. Espada's opponent, Gustavo Rivera.
Online Correction: September 14, 2010, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of one of the candidates for attorney general. She is Kathleen M. Rice, not Katheen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lisa Pressley, a New York City Board of Elections worker, gave Alvin Ford, 84, guidance on Monday on the new voting process. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (87%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); LIBERALISM (74%); LAWYERS (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); RADIO ADVERTISING (63%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (78%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); AL FRANKEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



399 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: New Ads to Try to Build Public Support for Gay Marriage

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Advocates for same-sex marriage in New York, in a major departure from their strategy of lobbying political insiders, will begin making a direct appeal to ordinary voters in a series of commercials featuring Hollywood actors, fashion designers and civic leaders.
The videos, to be released starting this week, are the most vivid attempt yet to persuade the state's lawmakers to legalize gay marriage, which the Legislature voted down last year, despite polling that showed a slight majority of New York voters supported it. 
In the aftermath of that defeat, many grumbled that the backers of same-sex marriage had failed to rally ordinary residents behind the bill or to humanize the issue outside of Albany -- the explicit aim of the new ads.
In them, celebrities like Julianne Moore and Kyra Sedgwick and leaders like Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the Rev. Al Sharpton will speak in strikingly personal ways about their support for gay marriage.
''I'm Julianne Moore, and I'm a New Yorker,'' begins one of the videos. ''We all deserve the right to marry the person we love.''
She adds: ''We are so close to equal marriage rights in New York. But we need your help.''
The timing of commercials is deliberate, and revealing: With the front-runner in the governor's race, Andrew M. Cuomo, the Democratic attorney general, pledging his support for same-sex marriage, and the Legislature in Democratic hands, advocates are pushing for a new vote early next year. ''We want to build excitement and momentum in advance of that,'' said Brian V. Ellner, of the Human Rights Campaign, a gay rights organization that is sponsoring the ads.
As part of that strategy, the Human Rights Campaign and its allies are spending heavily to oust three New York state senators -- all Democrats -- who voted against the marriage bill last year and who face opponents in the primary on Tuesday: William Stachowski of Buffalo, Shirley L. Huntley of Queens and Ruben Diaz Sr. of the Bronx.
But there are several hurdles: With most voters fretting about the dour state economy and a budget crisis, the next governor may be uneager to plunge into a potentially divisive debate about same-sex marriage. Opponents, like the New York State Catholic Conference, are expected to fight the bill. And the lawmakers who doomed the measure in 2009 could hold on to their seats.
Still, gay rights advocates say they want to lay the groundwork for its passage now, well ahead of a vote.
The ads were the brainchild of Mr. Ellner, a former Bloomberg administration official and a one-time Democratic candidate for Manhattan borough president. They will appear first online and later on television, closer to a vote on the gay-marriage bill, organizers said.
Mr. Ellner, who is overseeing the group's same-sex marriage push in New York, said that ''polls show there's broad-based support for marriage equality in this state, and this campaign is the first in a series of efforts that will put faces to that support.''
In interviews, those appearing in the videos expressed puzzlement and dismay that New York had fallen behind states like Vermont, Massachusetts and Iowa in legalizing same-sex marriage.
''I think we will look back someday and say, I can't believe we were so blind to this issue,'' Ms. Moore said. She called it a human rights issue.
Future ads will feature, among others, Kevin Bacon, Whoopi Goldberg, Fran Drescher, Tom Colicchio, the chef, and Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe, the widow of Arthur Ashe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); MARRIAGE (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COHABITATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); MAYORS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); FASHION DESIGNERS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); AL SHARPTON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010



400 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Republicans and the Middle Class

 BODY:
It was hard to know how serious a gesture of compromise Representative John Boehner, the House minority leader, was making on Sunday when he suggested that he would vote for a tax cut for the middle class even if it was not extended to the rich -- and the subsequent reaction of some of his fellow Republicans made us even more uncertain.
But it was refreshing to hear a Republican leader say that he could conceivably vote for any bill supported by President Obama. Perhaps the man the Republicans hope will be speaker of the House felt some pressure from Mr. Obama's recent efforts to remind Americans that the Republicans were proposing to sacrifice the middle-class Americans, yet again, in the name of failed trickle-down economics. 
For months, Republican leaders have been uniform in their insistence that they would allow everyone's taxes to rise if the rich did not get to keep their Bush-era tax breaks. Mr. Obama has proposed continuing the tax cut for the 98 percent of taxpaying families earning less than $250,000 while allowing the tax rates for the top 2 percent to return to their levels prior to the Bush administration. Republicans have demanded tax cuts for all, and, so far, not a single Republican leader has lined up behind Mr. Boehner's concession.
Even his deputy, Eric Cantor, the House Republican whip, issued a no-compromise statement on Monday demanding a ''clean bill,'' which means one that would make no distinction between tax cuts for the rich and for everyone else. Anything short of that, he said, is a ''nonstarter.'' Senator Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, introduced a bill on Monday that would extend the tax cuts indefinitely for everyone, including the wealthiest Americans. He may well be joined by Senator Joseph Lieberman, the Connecticut independent, and a few conservative Democrats.
But we hope Mr. Boehner would not be the only Republican to refuse to allow middle-class tax rates to rise, as they are scheduled to do at the end of this year. Even if it gave Democrats something to crow about, cutting those rates makes economic sense during a recession (though we disagree with Mr. Obama's plan to cut the rates permanently). Holding the middle-class cuts hostage to those for the wealthy would pose both a political danger to Republicans and an economic danger to the nation.
Ultimately, the case for the top-level tax cuts is increasingly shaky. If Republicans are the least bit serious about reducing the deficit, they have to acknowledge that doing so requires additional revenues, $700 billion of which would be lost to the top 2 percent of earners in the next decade if their taxes do not rise. Handing out those revenues to the rich would have little stimulative effect on the economy because those taxpayers tend to save rather than spend their marginal income.
Mr. Cantor and other hard-line tax-cutters like to claim that the high-end cuts would go to small businesses and other ''job creators.'' But they should listen carefully to another of Mr. Boehner's surprising acknowledgments on Sunday. Under sharp questioning from Bob Schieffer on CBS News's ''Face the Nation,'' Mr. Boehner admitted that only 3 percent of small businesses would pay higher taxes under Mr. Obama's proposal. As the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation recently reported, 97 percent of the taxpayers with business income would get a cut under Mr. Obama's plan.
That is something that Republicans simply do not say out loud; it would add inconvenient facts to a battle that they prefer to wage at a purely emotional level. But Mr. Obama's efforts to enact a reasonable tax policy are not just good politics. They make good sense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

 
