

1001 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 24, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: In Collapse of Carmaker's Venture With China, a Microcosm of South Korea's Woes

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
When Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, China's largest carmaker, set its sights on overseas expansion in 2004, it first took a small hop across the Yellow Sea. It bought a controlling stake in Ssangyong Motor of South Korea, the most ambitious foreign venture for China's surging auto industry.
 Five years later, Shanghai Auto's marriage with Ssangyong, a milestone of China's rising industrial clout and South Korea's deepening economic ties with its neighbor, is falling apart in acrimony and criminal investigations.
 Walloped by declining sales and bitter battles with its Chinese parent, Ssangyong filed for bankruptcy protection last month. Its combative labor unions and some South Korean commentators have vilified Shanghai Auto as an exploitative owner that siphoned off Ssangyong's technology, reneged on promises to invest, and dumped the company when the market turned sour. 
 Shanghai Auto has a different account of what went wrong. But the collapse of the venture is a black eye for China, which has pushed its top state-owned companies, including Shanghai Auto, to use the country's enormous dollar-based savings to expand abroad. It may also serve as a cautionary tale for Western companies seeking a lifeline from cash-rich Chinese businesses during the financial crisis.
 ''The Chinese made us rosy promises and then betrayed us,'' said Lee Chang-kun, a member of Ssangyong's labor union.
 The Shanghai company, which has partnerships with General Motors and Volkswagen in China that make it the country's largest carmaker, said its troubles in South Korea revealed a deep-seated Korean bias against the Chinese. The company said South Korea remained fraught with difficulties for foreign investors, despite Seoul's professed commitment to open up its economy.
 ''We hope that South Koreans of all walks of life will become objective and fair and abandon their prejudices against foreign investors,'' Shanghai Auto said in response to written questions.
 South Korea embraced China over the past decade as an economic and political partner, partly to offset its traditional dependence on the United States. Since the two countries formally ended Korean War-era hostilities and re-established diplomatic ties in 1992, China has replaced the United States as South Korea's biggest trading partner.
 But just as many South Koreans fret about the United States, it did not take long for many here to worry about overreliance on China as well. Korea is sandwiched between China and Japan and has come under the sway of both countries in the past.
 Against this backdrop, modern-day failures like Ssangyong -- and a similarly acrimonious breakup between BOE Technology Group, a Chinese electronics company, and Hydis of South Korea -- loom large in Korean minds.
 In 2003, BOE paid $380 million to buy Hydis, which makes displays for cellphones and laptop computers. A year later, Shanghai Auto bought 48.9 percent of Ssangyong, a specialist in sport utility vehicles and luxury sedans, for $510 million. It later increased its stake to 51.33 percent. 
 The Ssangyong purchase gave Shanghai Auto, known mostly for producing cars in China with foreign technology, an international brand of its own. Hu Maoyuan, Shanghai Auto's president, said the deal allowed his company to ''branch out into the global market.'' Ssangyong researchers helped Shanghai Auto develop the Roewe, Shanghai Auto's first independently made luxury car.
 South Korea, once one of the most closed of the major industrial economies, began opening up to more foreign investment after the 1997 Asian financial crisis. Foreign companies snapped up Korean banks and industrial concerns at fire-sale prices. When some later cashed out with sizable profits, South Korean workers began referring to them as meoktwi, a slang term that translates as ''a thief who eats and runs away.''
 Those fears increased when BOE used technology transferred from Hydis to build a new display panel factory in Beijing. When Hydis later ran into financial trouble, BOE did not pump in more money, leaving it to file for bankruptcy protection in 2006, according to Hydis employees. Now sold to a Taiwanese company, Hydis is a shell of its former self.
 ''BOE got the technology they wanted. All we got was layoffs,'' said Hwang Pil-sang, a Hydis worker.
 Shanghai Auto and Ssangyong never had much of a honeymoon. When the Shanghai company took over, Ssangyong was reporting net profits of $510 million a year. It was planning to roll out its new S.U.V. series: Kyron and Actyon.
 But the new cars sold below expectations. Ssangyong's hopes that Shanghai Auto could ease its entry into the rapidly growing but tightly regulated China market went largely unrealized, Ssangyong workers say. Heavy tariffs hindered Ssangyong's sales in China. Ssangyong's attempt to build a joint venture factory there faced red tape. 
 The two companies also clashed over how to expand sales. The 5,200-worker union demanded that the Chinese company infuse more cash, market more aggressively and speed up development of new models.
 Shanghai Auto said that it had agreed to invest more in Ssangyong, but argued that it intended to reinvest profits Ssangyong was earning. When Ssangyong's profits sank, so did the available cash to invest, the Chinese company said.
 Chinese managers began shedding hundreds of Ssangyong workers in 2006, and relations spiraled downward. Ssangyong employees went on strike for nearly two months. Workers barricaded themselves inside the factory and locked the managers out.
 The Ssangyong union also accused Shanghai Auto of stealing technology, setting off one investigation by prosecutors in 2006 and another last year. Last July, acting on tips from the National Intelligence Service, prosecutors raided Ssangyong's research center, searching for evidence of illicit technology leaks. 
 The union's allegations are disputed by Shanghai Auto. The Shanghai company says it has a normal technological give and take with its subsidiary. It shared its own technology with Ssangyong. It properly accounted for and compensated Ssangyong for Korean technology it took back to China, the company says.
 No charges have resulted from the legal inquiry. But it generated headlines in South Korea, where the media were already abuzz with reports of high-profile industrial espionage cases in which former employees of South Korea's biggest exporters -- Hyundai and Kia Motors, LG Electronics, the Daewoo shipyard and the steel maker Posco -- were convicted of leaking, or plotting to leak, sensitive technology to Chinese companies.
 In December, union members surrounded a car carrying Shanghai Auto officials and held it hostage for seven hours outside their factory south of Seoul, accusing the executives of absconding with proprietary technology.
 Yang Hyeong-geun, a 20-year veteran of the Ssangyong assembly lines, said he and his colleagues initially welcomed Shanghai Auto because the Chinese company promised job security, entry to the vast China market, and new investment to double Ssangyong's annual capacity, to 400,000 cars.
 ''We trusted their promise to help us into the vast Chinese market,'' Mr. Yang said. ''In the end, they kept none of their promises, and they got what they wanted: our technology.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 28, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the collapse of a manufacturing venture between Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation of China and Ssangyong Motor of South Korea misstated, in some editions, the month that Ssangyong filed for bankruptcy protection. It was in January, not this month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the labor union of Ssangyong Motor in January. The company filed for bankruptcy protection this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); KOREAN WAR (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (61%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%)

COMPANY: SHANGHAI AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY CORP (93%); SSANGYONG MOTOR CO (91%); BOE TECHNOLOGY GROUP CO LTD (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: 003620 (KSE) (91%); 000725 (SZSE) (60%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) EAST CHINA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009



1002 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Exports Plunge 46% in a Year

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Japan's exports plunged 45.7 percent in January from a year earlier, resulting in a record trade deficit, as recessions in the United States and Europe smothered demand for the country's cars and electronics. 
The shortfall widened to 952.6 billion yen ($9.9 billion), the Finance Ministry said on Wednesday in Tokyo. It was the biggest deficit since 1980, the earliest year for which there is comparable data. The drop in shipments abroad eclipsed a record 35 percent decline set in December.
Exports to the United States tumbled 52.9 percent from a year earlier, and shipments to Europe also posted big declines. The collapse is likely to force Japanese companies to keep firing workers and closing factories, worsening an economy that shrank the most in 34 years last quarter.
''The pressure on companies to cut jobs and investment is rising and that will make the recession deep and protracted,'' said Yasuhide Yajima, a senior economist at NLI Research Institute.
Exports to China fell 45.1 percent and those to Asia dropped 46.7 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); SHIPMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); LAYOFFS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

COMPANY: NLI RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011



1003 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: For One Day at Least, Wall Street Turns Higher

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street bounced back on Tuesday from its lowest levels in nearly 12 years after the chairman of the Federal Reserve tamped down investor fears that the government would nationalize major banks.
''We are committed to ensuring the viability of all major financial institutions,'' the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told the Senate Banking Committee. His reassurance on nationalization followed earlier statements from the White House that supported a privately held banking system.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 236.16 points, or 3.32 percent, to 7,350.94, erasing most of Monday's losses. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index jumped 29.81 points, or 4.01 percent, to 773.14. The Nasdaq composite index rose 54.11 points, or 3.9 percent, to 1,441.83. 
''We finally had a nice rally, and we can thank Mr. Bernanke for that,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners. ''The market never likes uncertainty, and we've been in uncertain times without any clear indication of how the problems can be fixed. That's what the market is pressing Washington for.''
A day earlier, the Dow lost 250 points and the S.& P. fell 26.7 points to the lowest levels for the indexes since 1997.
The sharp turnaround in stocks underscored the volatility on Wall Street and the market's hair-trigger sensitivity to each new statement and development from Washington as the government confronts the financial crisis. Despite Tuesday's gains, the Dow is still down 16 percent for the year, while the S.& P. is lower by 14 percent, and the economy is still precarious.
Bank shares, which have tumbled since the start of the year, sprang back as investors pushed aside concerns about a government takeover that could wipe out existing shareholders. Shares of Bank of America, Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo and Citigroup had double-digit percentage gains.
Shares of energy companies, utilities, industrial businesses and retailers also closed higher.
Shares of Macy's rose 12 percent, to $8.29, while Home Depot gained 10.5 percent, to $20.67, after the retailers reported profits that, while falling, beat expectations. The discount retailer Target fell 2 percent, to $27.83, after reporting a 41 percent decline in profits for the three months that ended Jan. 31.
Crude oil rose again, settling at $39.96 a barrel, up $1.52 in New York trading. Gold prices fell $29, to $966 an ounce, continuing their retreat from more than $1,000 an ounce.
Investors received a reminder of the problems in housing from a report showing that home values continuing to plunge. Single-family home prices in 20 major metropolitan areas fell 18.5 percent in December compared with a year earlier, according to the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller home price index. Prices dropped 2.5 percent from November to December.
Separately, the Conference Board, a private organization, reported that consumer confidence dropped to 25 in February, from 37.4 a month earlier.
Analysts said investors would pay close attention to President Obama's address to Congress on Tuesday night.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 12/32, to 99 19/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 2.80 percent, from 2.75 percent late Monday.
Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and two-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 The Favorite 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (66%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011



1004 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: In England, Some Deals in the Cornish Market

BYLINE: By RICHARD HOLLEDGE

 BODY:
SAINT MAWES, England 
 What do people really want when they visit Cornwall, England? The southwestern county attracts five million visitors a year -- 300,000 from overseas -- who come to marvel at Tintagel Castle, explore the beaches and eat too many cream teas. 
 But even in the deepest of winters like this one, which has seen the sea freeze and snow cover the moors, many spend time gazing at advertisements in real estate office windows, dreaming about a rose-wreathed house by the sea. 
 Needless to say, the cold weather has been matched by the economic chill. The latest report by the real estate company Knight Frank shows that prices in Cornwall have dropped by an average of 16.5 percent. 
 ''Last year was, without doubt, one of the most difficult the market has ever faced,'' said Rupert Sweeting, head of Knight Frank's country department. ''But there are signs that some confidence is returning to buyers. 2009 will not be easy, but vendors are now far more realistic and accept that prices have already fallen quite significantly.'' 
 This could suit buyers in Cornwall, a mecca for retirees and second-home owners. According to the most recent property sale records available, more than 6 percent of the county's 215,000 residences are owned by people from out of the county -- and in some parishes the proportion was as high as 80 percent. 
 For the county, the second-home owners have been a blessing. With a 13.2 percent unemployment rate, property prices are out of most people's reach. In North Cornwall, for instance, which includes the popular resorts of St. Ives, Padstow and Newquay, the average salary is 23,000 pounds ($32,900) but the average house price is 258,476 pounds ($370,000).
 H. Tiddy real estate, based in the port town of St. Mawes, sold four properties in December, ranging from 170,000 pounds ($243,275) for a two-bedroom cottage in picturesque Gorran Haven to 1.3 million pounds ($1.86 million) for a four-bedroom chalet in St Mawes. 
 Georgia Witchell, a real estate agent with Tiddy's, said that St. Mawes has a good mix of outsiders and locals but she said residents ''tend to live on the periphery of a place like this because the Cornish are priced out of the best places.'' 
 Melissa Hardie, an American raised in Oklahoma and Texas, moved to one of the best places when she settled near Penzance 25 years ago with her husband, Philip Budden, a dentist.
 ''It reminded me of West Texas,'' said Ms. Hardie, whose house in the hamlet of New Mill overlooks the sea. ''There is something real, raw, untidy and open about this part of the world. Like the kind of place I grew up in.'' 
 Her five-bedroom home is long and low -- ''like a train'' -- and has been extended at the front into an L-shape. There have been properties on the site for more than 300 years. 
 Like many who did not grow up in the area, Ms. Hardie, 69, a publisher and book shop owner, finds her circle of friends and acquaintances are separate from the Cornish community. 
 ''I meet very few Cornish people because there aren't many around,'' she said. ''Some of our locally born neighbors have died and their houses were bought by outsiders.'' 
 Considerable sums have been spent on work and housing initiatives, the most eye-catching of which is the 130-million-pound ($186 million) Eden Project, near St. Austell, which draws more than 1 million visitors a year to old china clay quarries that now are home to domes filled with tropical plants. But none of the efforts have yet changed the split-level nature of the county's property market. 
 ''The villages are like ghost towns in the winter,'' said William Morrison of the Knight Frank real estate agency in Exeter. ''But then, because supply is so limited, it means properties keep their prices, which can only be good for owners.'' 
 Among those owners are Martyn and Amanda Hedley, who in 2001 bought the Old Vicarage, St. Winnow, near Lostwithiel. They also own two other houses on Cornwall's north coast as well as a house in London's Chelsea neighborhood.
 Before they restored the place, the couple described it as a rundown ''hippie dwelling.'' Now the hall's grand staircase leads up to nine bedrooms, and the three elegant living areas look out on the newly landscaped garden terrace and views over the River Fowey. 
 ''We bought it when I retired because I wanted the challenge of restoring the place,'' said Mr. Hedley, a former insurance broker. ''It took two years to complete the work but now but now we feel we are spreading ourselves to-ing and fro-ing between London and Cornwall and are keen to sell.'' They have put the house on the market with an asking price of 5 million pounds ($7.15 million).
 Ms. Witchell of the H. Tiddy agency said that the county's tourism actually makes the property more resilient because most people are not desperate to buy or to sell. 
 ''If sellers can't get the price they want, they can keep it as a holiday let and ride through until the situation improves,'' she said. ''A three-bed house by the sea could be rented out for more than 1,000 pounds ($1,430, a week) in July and August.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%)

COMPANY: KNIGHT FRANK LLP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (57%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1005 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; THE POUR; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Asian Fusion, Via the Wine List

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
I'M not in the business of telling restaurants what to do. But if I were a consultant I would offer this advice to the Indian, Thai, Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese restaurants throughout the city: Do not neglect the wine list!
 Wine? With Indian food, to say nothing of the other Asian genres? Absolutely. 
 And by wine, I also mean good beer, not just the ethnically correct but generally tasteless brews that people were satisfied with 30 years ago.
 To call wine an afterthought for most Asian restaurants would be too kind. It's largely irrelevant. Wine in particular was not part of the culture for most Asians growing up, so it does not spring to mind when opening up shop in the United States. 
 The spice issue further complicates matters. Cuisines that emphasize chili heat, like Sichuan, Thai and southern Indian, are thought to blot out wine's more gentle attributes. That is when beer is called in, yet so many Asian restaurants can imagine no more than Tsingtao, Kirin or the dreaded Kingfisher, which make Bud Light seem like a paragon of robust flavor. The result is a vacuum at the table. For restaurants, it is a lost opportunity.
 At least some Asian restaurants understand that wine lovers love wine with all foods. In New York, Tabla, Danny Meyer's Indian fusion restaurant, has an excellent list. Tamarind and Devi, both ambitious Indian restaurants, have put a good deal of effort into selecting wines that go with the food. Holy Basil, a modest Thai restaurant in the East Village, has long offered a good selection of wines. Pranna, a Southeast Asian restaurant, hired the wine writer Alice Feiring to create a list, and she has done a superb job of assembling moderately priced artisanal wines that complement the food beautifully. 
 In San Francisco, the Slanted Door, a stylish Vietnamese restaurant, offers a wonderful selection. 
 Of course, all these restaurants are a far shout from the more typical neighborhood joint, where atmosphere consists of menus under glass tabletops and much of the business is delivery. Still, even these high-end restaurants must overcome a sense of doubt about wine.
 ''We initially were very skeptical about it,'' said Gary Walia, the general manager of Tamarind, which opened nine years ago in the Flatiron district. ''But I had worked with the Bastianich family at Becco and I wanted to topple the myth of only drinking beer with Indian food.''
 Now, Mr. Walia said, wine outsells beer 60 percent to 40 percent. The hardest to persuade at his and other Indian restaurants tend to be Indian patrons.
 ''People in India are more Scotch drinkers or beer drinkers, so wine never got any focus,'' said Payal Sharma, who, with her husband, Rajiv, owns Pranna, near Madison Square. But Ms. Sharma says she is a big wine lover, and after a friend introduced her to Ms. Feiring, she asked her to put together a list.
 Aside from a preference for wines from grapes grown organically or biodynamically, Ms. Feiring has one major rule for pairing wine with highly spiced foods: ''Oak and high alcohol don't work,'' she said. ''Big surprise.''
 I'm with her on that. Spicy foods bring out the oaky tannins in a wine, even if the oak is ordinarily difficult to detect, and spices also exaggerate the heat in a higher-alcohol wine.
 Among the bottles on Ms. Feiring's list at Pranna, a red Chinon from Bernard Baudry seemed like a natural, as did a fresh and vibrant Touraine sauvignon blanc from Clos Roche Blanche. The big surprise for me, though, was a dry white Hungarian wine, a 1999 from Tokaj Classic. It was made from the furmint grape, which is better known in Hungary's lusciously sweet tokays, but this was delicate, floral and just right with a tart chicken curry dish. 
 Ms. Sharma says diners have been very receptive to the wines, even though many bottles come from little-known producers. ''I'm amazed at the number of wines people are ordering, especially in this economy,'' she said.
 Sparkling wine often complements spicy food for the same reason that beer often works: the bubbles scrub and refresh the palate. Gewurztraminer is often recommended with spicy Asian cuisines, but I much prefer riesling, especially if it has some sweetness. German spatleses are brilliant choices. They're inherently low alcohol, with no oak flavors, and if the sweetness is balanced by a proper amount of lively acidity they're remarkably refreshing. A 2006 Nahe spatlese from Donnhoff was an ideal selection at Tabla, with a range of forcefully spiced but not-too-hot dishes.
 Reds in general are more problematic matches than whites. Kevin Richer, the beverage manager at Tabla, suggests that fruity zinfandels go well with its menu, but the generally high alcohol level of most zinfandels raises doubt in my mind. I would prefer Rhone reds, like a St.-Joseph or Crozes-Hermitage, as long as they're not too ambitious, which is generally proportional to the level of oak in the wines. 
 Mr. Walia, for one, is intent on demonstrating that riesling is not the only wine to go with Indian food. He likes sauvignon blancs from New Zealand and white Chateauneuf-du-Papes. He offers a wide range of reds, from Australian shiraz right up to Petrus (he has sold two bottles for $2,500 each).
 What to eat with the Petrus? Mr. Walia recommends Tamarind's excellent venison chops, marinated in yogurt and roasted in the tandoor.
 While wines can be a lot more versatile with these cuisines than many people imagine, there does come a point where chili heat and vigorous spicing can dominate even the most forgiving bottle. Fortunately, Tamarind has a good list of Belgian alternatives.
 ''If you go to a spice level of 10,'' Mr. Walia said, ''then I would say go with beer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PERHAPS A ZINFANDEL: Kevin Richer is Tabla's beverage director.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BEER & ALE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (72%); BEVERAGE PRICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (77%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1006 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: In Tough Times, Humanities Must Justify Their Worth

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
One idea that elite universities like Yale, sprawling public systems like Wisconsin and smaller private colleges like Lewis and Clark have shared for generations is that a traditional liberal arts education is, by definition, not intended to prepare students for a specific vocation. Rather, the critical thinking, civic and historical knowledge and ethical reasoning that the humanities develop have a different purpose: They are prerequisites for personal growth and participation in a free democracy, regardless of career choice.
 But in this new era of lengthening unemployment lines and shrinking university endowments, questions about the importance of the humanities in a complex and technologically demanding world have taken on new urgency. Previous economic downturns have often led to decreased enrollment in the disciplines loosely grouped under the term ''humanities'' -- which generally include languages, literature, the arts, history, cultural studies, philosophy and religion. Many in the field worry that in this current crisis those areas will be hit hardest.
 Already scholars point to troubling signs. A December survey of 200 higher education institutions by The Chronicle of Higher Education and Moody's Investors Services found that 5 percent have imposed a total hiring freeze, and an additional 43 percent have imposed a partial freeze. 
 In the last three months at least two dozen colleges have canceled or postponed faculty searches in religion and philosophy, according to a job postings page on Wikihost.org. The Modern Language Association's end-of-the-year job listings in English, literature and foreign languages dropped 21 percent for 2008-09 from the previous year, the biggest decline in 34 years.
 ''Although people in humanities have always lamented the state of the field, they have never felt quite as much of a panic that their field is becoming irrelevant,'' said Andrew Delbanco, the director of American studies at Columbia University. 
 With additional painful cuts across the board a near certainty even as millions of federal stimulus dollars may be funneled to education, the humanities are under greater pressure than ever to justify their existence to administrators, policy makers, students and parents. Technology executives, researchers and business leaders argue that producing enough trained engineers and scientists is essential to America's economic vitality, national defense and health care. Some of the staunchest humanities advocates, however, admit that they have failed to make their case effectively.
 This crisis of confidence has prompted a reassessment of what has long been considered the humanities' central and sacred mission: to explore, as one scholar put it, ''what it means to be a human being.''
 The study of the humanities evolved during the 20th century ''to focus almost entirely on personal intellectual development,'' said Richard M. Freeland, the Massachusetts commissioner of higher education. ''But what we haven't paid a lot of attention to is how students can put those abilities effectively to use in the world. We've created a disjunction between the liberal arts and sciences and our role as citizens and professionals.''
 Mr. Freeland is part of what he calls a revolutionary movement to close the ''chasm in higher education between the liberal arts and sciences and professional programs.'' The Association of American Colleges and Universities recently issued a report arguing the humanities should abandon the ''old Ivory Tower view of liberal education'' and instead emphasize its practical and economic value. 
 Next month Mr. Freeland and the association are hosting a conference precisely on this subject at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. There is a lot of interest on the national leadership level in higher education, Mr. Freeland said, but the idea has not caught on among professors and department heads. 
 Baldly marketing the humanities makes some in the field uneasy. 
 Derek Bok, a former president of Harvard and the author of several books on higher education, argues, ''The humanities has a lot to contribute to the preparation of students for their vocational lives.'' He said he was referring not only to writing and analytical skills but also to the type of ethical issues raised by new technology like stem-cell research. But he added: ''There's a lot more to a liberal education than improving the economy. I think that is one of the worst mistakes that policy makers often make -- not being able to see beyond that.'' 
 Anthony T. Kronman, a professor of law at Yale and the author of ''Education's End: Why Our Colleges and Universities Have Given Up on the Meaning of Life,'' goes further. Summing up the benefits of exploring what's called ''a life worth living'' in a consumable sound bite is not easy, Mr. Kronman said. 
 But ''the need for my older view of the humanities is, if anything, more urgent today,'' he added, referring to the widespread indictment of greed, irresponsibility and fraud that led to the financial meltdown. In his view this is the time to re-examine ''what we care about and what we value,'' a problem the humanities ''are extremely well-equipped to address.'' 
 To Mr. Delbanco of Columbia, the person who has done the best job of articulating the benefits is President Obama. ''He does something academic humanists have not been doing well in recent years,'' he said of a president who invokes Shakespeare and Faulkner, Lincoln and W. E. B. Du Bois. ''He makes people feel there is some kind of a common enterprise, that history, with its tragedies and travesties, belongs to all of us, that we have something in common as Americans.'' 
 During the second half of the 20th century, as more and more Americans went on to college, a smaller and smaller percentage of those students devoted themselves to the humanities. The humanities' share of college degrees is less than half of what it was during the heyday in the mid- to late '60s, according to the Humanities Indicators Prototype, a new database recently released by a consortium headed by the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. Currently they account for about 8 percent (about 110,000 students), a figure that has remained pretty stable for more than a decade. The low point for humanities degrees occurred during the bitter recession of the early 1980s. 
 The humanities continue to thrive in elite liberal arts schools. But the divide between these private schools and others is widening. Some large state universities routinely turn away students who want to sign up for courses in the humanities, Francis C. Oakley, president emeritus and a professor of the history of ideas at Williams College, reported. At the University of Washington, for example, in recent years, as many as one-quarter of the students found they were unable to get into a humanities course. 
 As money tightens, the humanities may increasingly return to being what they were at the beginning of the last century, when only a minuscule portion of the population attended college: namely, the province of the wealthy.
 That may be unfortunate but inevitable, Mr. Kronman said. The essence of a humanities education -- reading the great literary and philosophical works and coming ''to grips with the question of what living is for'' -- may become ''a great luxury that many cannot afford.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about humanities scholars' concerns that their field will be hit hard by the economic downturn misstated the name of a new humanities database organized by the American Academy of Arts & Sciences with a consortium of organizations. It is the Humanities Indicators Prototype, not the Humanities Prototype Indicators.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Andrew Delbanco, director of American studies at Columbia
below, Anthony T. Kronman in his office at Yale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) CHART: Percentage of degrees in the humanities. (Source: Humanities Indicators Project) Chart details line graph for various degree types. (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); LITERATURE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); RELIGION (73%); ETHICS (72%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (55%); MODERN LANGUAGE ASSOCIATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1007 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: We're Not 'Cowards,' We're Just Loud

BYLINE: By STEPHEN L. CARTER. 
Stephen L. Carter, a novelist and Yale law professor, is writing a book about what democracy needs now.

DATELINE: New Haven 

 BODY:
 JUST weeks before taking the oath of office in 1861, Abraham Lincoln spoke to a crowd in Pittsburgh. The times were fraught. Since Lincoln's election, several slave-holding states had left the Union. More were threatening to go. But Lincoln told the worried assemblage, ''There is really no crisis except an artificial one!''
 Actually, Lincoln said much more than that -- hundreds upon hundreds of words, calculated to soothe the public's fear of war. But had his speech been covered the way the news media cover political remarks today, it is likely that most people would have heard only that one line, and Lincoln, the nation's greatest president, would have been pilloried as an out-of-touch bumpkin. 
 Writing teachers everywhere tell their students that context is everything. But if the response to Attorney General Eric Holder's remarks last week to Justice Department employees is any guide, teachers everywhere are wrong. The speech was written for Black History Month. Now, a week later, what most people know about the talk is that the attorney general accused his fellow citizens of being, on the matter of race, ''a nation of cowards.''
 The speech itself was more than 2,300 words. The already infamous phrase occurred about 150 words in. Thus we are left with well over 2,000 unanalyzed words -- that is, the context for the phrase. For too many critics, the context of Mr. Holder's remarks (like the context of former Senator Phil Gramm's accusation during the election campaign that we are a ''nation of whiners'') is quite beside the point.
 Perhaps, as some have suggested, Mr. Holder's language was infelicitous; but presidents and popes now and then regret their choice of words, so attorneys general can hardly hope for immunity from persecution. More important is what the response to the speech says about the current state of political dialogue.
 Indeed, the truly intriguing aspect is not what the attorney general had to say about race, but rather what he had to say about the way in which we discuss it. Our national conversation on race, said Mr. Holder, ''is too often simplistic and left to those on the extremes who are not hesitant to use these issues to advance nothing more than their own narrow self-interest.''
 There is, plainly, something to this. When we talk about race we do tend to talk in simplistic categories, spending more energy on labeling each other than on reasoning together. Consider the entirely predictable battle lines over The New York Post's infamous stimulus bill cartoon last week, which featured a chimpanzee. One side says the newspaper was insensitive, the other that the protesters have a double standard and are fanning the flames for the sake of attention. Plenty of sound bites, but nothing that moves us forward.
 This difficulty, however, is not limited to race. There are few issues of any importance that are not reduced, in public dialogue, to sloganeering and applause lines. Whether we argue over war or the economy, marriage or religion, abortion or guns, we reduce our ideas to just the right size for the adolescent tantrum of the bumper sticker.
 Consider, for example, the Obama administration's evolving tough line on terrorism. Many critics seem to think that reminding us that President Obama's policies are similar to President George W. Bush's is argument enough against them. But guilt by association with an unpopular past president does not tell us whether a particular tactic is right or wrong. Or consider the economic crisis, where one cable television network, on the very evening of the Lehman Brothers collapse last fall, had a program promising to analyze not what had gone wrong but who was at fault. 
 Democracy, at its best, rests on a foundation of mutual respect among co-equal citizens willing to take the time for serious debate. After all, even on the momentous issues that divide us, there is usually the possibility that the other side has a good argument. Yet if we paint our opponents as monsters, we owe them no obligation to pay attention to what they have to say. 
 Forty-five years ago, in his classic essay ''The Paranoid Style in American Politics,'' Richard Hofstadter warned against this tendency, and worried that it would recur in every era. There is, he suggested, something in the Western psyche that too often makes us retreat to a vision of politics in which there is no complexity. ''Since what is at stake,'' wrote Hofstadter, ''is always a conflict between absolute good and absolute evil, what is necessary is not compromise but the will to fight things out to a finish.''
 Complexity is the enemy of such fundamentalism, and, as our public dialogue grows more fundamentalist, complexity fades. If you read Ray Bradbury's ''Fahrenheit 451'' -- and everyone who loves democracy should read it, at least every two or three years -- pay attention to the speech by the fire chief, Captain Beatty, explaining why they burned the books. The reason was not national security or political power. It was complexity. Books, says the fire chief, make ideas too difficult. The reader winds up lost, he says, ''in a great welter of nouns and verbs and adjectives.'' The people demanded the books be burned because they wanted no complicated ideas.
 We may not be burning books, exactly, but we are burning argument and ideas, replacing them with applause lines. If we Americans can make our way past the fanfare over the most controversial words in Mr. Holder's speech, perhaps we can learn from his reminder that democracy needs dialogue more than it needs bumper stickers.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RODRIGO CORRAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); HISTORY (70%); LAWYERS (69%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (78%); PHIL GRAMM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1008 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Fills a Vacuum, in a Big Way

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

DATELINE: WHITE OAK, Md. 

 BODY:
A dozen years ago, the closing of the Naval Surface Warfare Center in White Oak, a suburb of Washington, was met with a mixture of concern and hope. What would happen to the 662-acre military compound? Would the thousands of naval workers whose jobs were being shifted be replaced? Would the sprawling federal property be privately developed, or left fallow?
 In the great chess game of managing the government's properties, the Food and Drug Administration has moved into the gap, with a large-scale consolidation of its previously scattered labs and offices. The $1.15 billion project -- which includes 14 new buildings totaling 3.1 million square feet of labs and offices -- is also expected to become the anchor of a new biotech hub just outside the Capital Beltway. 
 The move to White Oak, about six miles from downtown Silver Spring, Md., is part of a continuing effort by the General Services Administration, the agency that owns and leases property for federal offices, to make better use of its vast real estate portfolio. ''From our perspective of asset management, it was kind of a no-brainer,'' said Anthony E. Costa, the acting G.S.A. buildings commissioner. ''The federal government had this large site. It made sense.'' 
 Consolidating the F.D.A. and not paying rent to private landlords also made financial sense. For decades, the F.D.A. rented space at 27 separate buildings elsewhere in Montgomery County and operated under 49 different leases. 
 ''Leasing, especially lab space, gets to be fairly expensive,'' Mr. Costa said. ''When you rely on the private sector to supply that type of space, you're in a pretty precarious situation.'' A 2004 G.S.A. study concluded that the government would save $10 million annually by moving the F.D.A. from its rented quarters to a new consolidated campus at White Oak.
 The site at White Oak, named for the Maryland state tree, was an overgrown and wooded field when the federal government acquired it in 1944 as the new home for the Naval Ordnance Laboratory, which developed and tested ballistics, torpedoes, mines and other explosives. The facility later combined with another naval weapons testing base and was renamed the Naval Surface Weapons Center, and then, in 1987, the Naval Surface Warfare Center, to indicate its broader military mission. 
 Then in 1995, as part of a major reshuffling and shuttering of military bases nationwide, the White Oak warfare center was ordered closed. The Navy wanted to sell the property, but residents and elected officials fought to keep it in federal hands. Meanwhile, a plan to consolidate the F.D.A. at another location, in northern Montgomery County, fell through. 
 Neighborhood activists, under an umbrella organization called LabQuest, rallied to bring the F.D.A. to White Oak. Residents argued that a large, government-run research campus would attract highly educated professionals and spur other biotech development. 
 ''A community can be the victim or be pro-active,'' said Betsy L. Bretz, the chairwoman of LabQuest and a longtime real estate agent who has lived in a single-family home directly behind the federal site for 36 years. ''We decided to be pro-active. This project blends in with the community rather than overshadows it.'' 
 Under pressure from Congress, the G.S.A. agreed to bring the F.D.A. to White Oak, demolishing nearly all of the old structures except for the former Naval Ordnance Laboratory headquarters, a low-slung, mid-century modern building. The red brick structure is the first thing that visitors see as they enter the campus from the main entrance off New Hampshire Avenue. The G.S.A. also kept the original red brick fire station, which it converted into a backup electric power plant. A wind tunnel operated by the Navy has been retained under Air Force management.
 The F.D.A., which will occupy just 130 acres -- much of the remaining site is wooded -- began moving to White Oak in 2003 with 104 employees. So far, six new buildings have been completed and two more are under construction. The new, six-story structures, linked with pedestrian bridges and pathways, are designed to blend in with the historic brick buildings. 
 So far, the government has spent $680 million, a little more than half the projected cost, and G.S.A. officials say all work has been on time and on budget. Kling/RTKL, of Philadelphia and Washington, is the architecture firm. Heery-Tishman, of Baltimore and New York, is providing construction management.
 About 3,700 F.D.A. employees are now stationed in White Oak working in life sciences, engineering and physics laboratories. Next month, 1,100 more F.D.A. employees will join them. By 2012, the total could ultimately grow to 8,800, more than double the number of naval workers before.
 The F.D.A.'s arrival has spurred other biotech and medical-related developments in the area. The furthest along is the Washington Adventist Hospital, a 102-year-old medical institution in nearby Takoma Park known for its cardiac care center, which performs nearly 600 open heart surgeries a year. Adventist is planning to move to a new 292-bed building next to the F.D.A. 
 While the project is not expected to break ground until next year, Adventist and the F.D.A. signed an agreement in January to share doctors and resources. 
 ''Most F.D.A. doctors today don't have private practices,'' said Jere D. Stocks, the president of Adventist. ''But the model we're trying to develop would give them an opportunity to do clinical practice a couple days a month in the hospital, where they can see patients, keep their skills sharp, see how equipment and drugs work with patients, and become better scientists.'' 
 Another site, just north of the F.D.A., is being considered for the East County Center for Science and Technology, a county government-sponsored office park with a biotech focus. In January, Montgomery County -- which includes White Oak, Rockville, Chevy Chase and Bethesda -- paid $10 million for the 115 acres. But the site, formerly a sludge composting center, first has to undergo soil contamination tests.
 ''The F.D.A. is great from our perspective,'' said Tina Benjamin, chief of staff for Montgomery County's economic development department. ''It helps balance the jobs-to-residents ratio on that side of the county.''
 But perhaps the most ambitious proposal is coming from Percontee Inc., a local real estate development company that owns a 185-acre parcel northeast of the F.D.A. property. Percontee has yet to submit formal applications to Montgomery County, but its draft proposal envisions a mixed-use development that includes 2,000 townhouses and condos, more than 2 million square feet for biotech firms, 200,000 square feet of retail space and 50 acres of parkland. 
 Though Percontee's project is in its early stages, the G.S.A. has begun building an access road through the property to the northeast side of the F.D.A.'s campus. ''The F.D.A. is the linchpin in making this have a biotech focus,'' said Jonathan Genn, the executive vice president of Percontee. ''It is all driven by having the one gold standard of public health, the F.D.A.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker prepares an entry to the new Food and Drug Administration campus in White Oak, Md., adjacent to a building that dates to the property's former tenant: the U.S. Navy. By 2012, up to 8,800 are expected to work there.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUBURBS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MILITARY BASES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (56%); US NAVY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1009 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Not Hiring

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
It is hard to think of any job-hunting skills that Alexis Lovell lacks. As a recruiter for Silicon Valley technology companies, and before that, for retailers, she has advised job candidates on resume preparation, personal presentation and interview skills for the last eight years. Networking strategies and trolling social networks and online job sites are the tools of her trade. 
 Yet none of those things is helping one candidate in need of a job these days: Ms. Lovell herself. 
 Unemployed since mid-November, when Plantronics let go of its five recruiters, Ms. Lovell has reached out by e-mail message to nearly 400 well-connected hiring managers and technology executives she knows, and she has phoned about that many. 
 ''No bites,'' she said during a networking luncheon for recruiters earlier this month in Mountain View, not far from the campuses of Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and other tech giants. When she is not looking for work, Ms. Lovell spends much of her time with her 2-year-old daughter, whom she took out of day care to save money. 
 ''I am trying to make the best of my time at home,'' Ms. Lovell said. ''And not shop,'' she chuckled. 
 The majority of the approximately 90 recruiters who attended the networking luncheon were in the same situation. The monthly luncheon, now in its 11th year, has long been a source of job leads for countless recruiters, and many showed up last week with the faint hope of hearing about an opening for themselves. What they found were old friends, unemployed colleagues and words of encouragement. They also got a few tips on adapting their skills to other professions and one offer for affordable health care. 
 ''It was pretty hard to see so many people in the same situation,'' Ms. Lovell said.
 There are no precise counts of recruiters in Silicon Valley, and no one knows how many are unemployed. But interviews with more than two dozen recruiters suggest that the recession has slammed the profession particularly hard, both here and across the country. 
 Scores of recruiters have been let go in recent months and new positions are virtually nonexistent. Those that pop up attract as many as 500 applicants. And rates paid to recruiters, many of whom work as contractors, have fallen by about 50 percent.
 ''Recruiters are kind of the canary in the coal mine,'' said John Moed, who moderates an online group for San Francisco-area recruiters that has about 3,700 members. ''When things are great, the bird is singing away and you can't find enough recruiters. But they are the first to go when things are slow.''
 First indeed. Consider Google, a company that in 10 years had never laid off employees because of economic conditions. In its first round of recession-related job cuts last month, it fired 100 recruiters. 
 Most recruiters in Silicon Valley, however, work as contractors, so they typically lose their jobs with little fanfare: there is no layoff announcement, just a contract that ends and is not renewed. Before it laid off its staff recruiters, Google had quietly cut a small army of contract recruiters around the world, which several people who know the company said had numbered in the hundreds. 
 And as contractors, many recruiters who find themselves jobless cannot collect unemployment.
 Recruiters have never been the elite denizens of Silicon Valley. That is a distinction reserved for the rock stars of Silicon Valley, the engineers, serial entrepreneurs, product designers or marketers or the venture capitalists who finance start-ups. 
 But recruiters have long played a vital role as foot soldiers in the Valley's famous talent wars for those rock stars. When the emerging Web 2.0 companies like Facebook, YouTube and LinkedIn competed with each other and with more established players like Google and Yahoo for top-flight talent, recruiters were in high demand. Wages rose accordingly and many good recruiters could easily command an hourly rate of $100, which for a full-time contract translates to about $200,000 a year. (Many recruiters now say they would be lucky to find work that pays $30 to $50 an hour.)
 Ms. Lovell spent many of those good years at Google, where, as a contractor, she helped recruit other recruiters and built the company's global talent acquisition team. While Google paid less than some other large companies -- $50 to $90 an hour, according to people with knowledge of its compensation plans -- the rewards of working for the Valley's hottest company made up for it, Ms. Lovell said. 
 ''It felt like the pinnacle of my career,'' Ms. Lovell said. ''As a recruiter in the good times, it is really good.'' 
 Back then, Google was hiring at a furious rate. In the middle of 2007, it added more than 2,100 workers in a single quarter. In the most recent quarter, Google grew by a mere 99 positions, and the slowdown in hiring goes a long way toward explaining the layoffs in recruiting. 
 The memories of a painful downturn still haunt many in Silicon Valley. It was only eight years ago in the dot-com collapse that one in five of the region's jobs vanished. Yet many recruiters say that for them, things are worse this time around. 
 ''Since October, the business has been dreadful,'' said Herb Deitz, who, during the dot-com crash, had to let go all 30 recruiters who worked for him at a technology consulting firm. ''It's probably the worst that I've seen it.''
 The dot-com meltdown left several pockets of strength in the technology sector and biotechnology. Mr. Deitz went to work for VMware, a fast-growing company that provides technology to data centers. 
 Others left the recruiting profession and applied their sales skills in more promising sectors of the economy, especially real estate and mortgages. 
 Debra Young was one of them. She got a real estate license and began working as a mortgage broker. But recruiting is her passion, so in 2004, when things began to pick up again in Silicon Valley, she returned to the talent wars and enjoyed a few good years. Two days before Christmas, her contract with Yahoo ended, and she has not found anything since. 
 With no credit card debt, no car payments and no ''mortgage mess,'' Ms. Young said she was not too worried about making it through this downturn. ''I have no problem living frugally,'' she said. She kept a hand in real estate and is still underwriting mortgages.
 The biggest toll, she said, is emotional. And if things don't pick up, she is confident that she can make another career switch. 
 ''Reinventing yourself isn't that much fun, but I can do it,'' Ms. Young said. 
 Ms. Lovell, whose husband is still working, said she had not given up hope. ''I'm trying to remain positive,'' she said. But going from two incomes to one has not been easy. 
 ''We are just being ultra-sensitive and aware how close to the edge we are,'' Ms. Lovell said. ''It has been a tremendous shift for us to lose that income.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susan Dittman, top left, and Anne Schaefer at a Silicon Valley recruiters' luncheon in early February. The monthly event was long a source of job leads.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Louis Sarto, an executive recruiter, left, chatted with Michael Gallagher at a Silicon Valley recruiters' luncheon early this month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (92%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); RETAILERS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); PLANTRONICS INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); PLT (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1010 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: I Ponied Up for Sheryl Crow?

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 Talk about being teed off.
 The economy is croaking and bankers are still partying at a golf tournament here on our dime.
 It's a good argument for nationalization, or better yet, internationalization. Outsource the jobs of these perfidious, oblivious bank executives to Bangalore; Bollywood bashes have to cost less than Hollywood ones.
 The entertainment Web site TMZ broke the story Tuesday that Northern Trust of Chicago, which got $1.5 billion in bailout money and then laid off 450 workers, flew hundreds of clients and employees to Los Angeles last week and treated them to four days of posh hotel rooms, salmon and filet mignon dinners, music concerts, a PGA golf tournament at the Riviera Country Club with Mercedes shuttle rides and Tiffany swag bags. 
 ''A rep from the PGA told us Northern Trust wrote one big, fat check in order to sponsor the event,'' TMZ reported. 
 Northern No Trust had a lavish dinner at the Ritz Carlton on Wednesday with a concert by Chicago (at a $100,000 fee); rented a private hangar at the Santa Monica Airport on Thursday for another big dinner with a gig by Earth, Wind & Fire, and closed down the House of Blues on Sunset Strip on Saturday (at a cost of $50,000) for a dinner and serenade by Sheryl Crow.
 In the ignoble tradition of rockers who sing for huge sums to sketchy people when we're not looking, Crow -- in her stint as a federal employee -- warbled these lyrics to the oblivious revelers:
 ''Slow down, you're gonna crash, Baby, you're a-screaming it's a blast, blast, blast Look out babe, you've got your blinders on ... But there's a new cat in town He's got high payin' friends Thinks he's gonna change history.''
 Northern Untrustworthy even offered junketeers the chance to attend a seminar on the credit crunch where they could no doubt learn that the U.S. government is just the latest way to finance your deals and keep your office swathed in $87,000 area rugs.
 In what is now an established idiotic ritual of rationalization, the bank put out a letter noting that it ''did not seek the government's investment'' even though it took it, and that it had raised $3 million for the Los Angeles Junior Chamber of Commerce Charity Foundation and other nonprofits. They riposted that they have a contract to do it every year for five years; but this isn't every year.
 The bank cloaks itself in a philanthropic glow while wasting our money, acting like the American Cancer Society when in fact it's a cancer on American society.
 It asserted that it earned an operating net income of $641 million last year and acted as though it did Americans a favor by taking federal cash. 
 I would ask Northern No Trust: If you're totally solvent, why are you taking my tax dollars? If you're not totally solvent, why are you giving my tax dollars to Sheryl Crow?
 Coming in a moment when skeptical and angry Americans watched A.I.G., Citigroup, General Motors and Chrysler -- firms that had already been given a federal steroid injection -- get back in line for more billions, the golf scandal was just one more sign that the bailed-out rich are different from you and me: their appetites are unquenchable and their culture is uneducable.
 President Obama served them notice on Tuesday night in his Congressional address, saying: ''This time, C.E.O.'s won't be able to use taxpayer money to pad their paychecks or buy fancy drapes or disappear on a private jet. Those days are over.''
 But will they notice?
 John ''Antique Commode'' Thain had to be ordered by a judge to tell Andrew Cuomo's investigators which Merrill Lynch employees got those $3.6 billion in bonuses that Thain illicitly shoved through as his firm was failing and being taken over by Bank of America with the help of a $45 billion bailout. Kenneth Lewis, the Bank of America C.E.O., made the absurd assertion to Congress that his bank had ''no authority'' to stop the bonuses, even though he knew about them beforehand.
 ''They find out they're $7 billion off on the estimate of losses for the fourth quarter and they never think maybe we should go back and adjust these bonuses?'' Cuomo told me, as Thain was finally responding to investigators on Tuesday at the New York attorney general's office. ''He refused to answer questions on the basis that 'the Bank of America didn't want me to.' You can take the Fifth Amendment or you can answer questions. But there's no Bank of America privilege. The Bank of America doesn't substitute for the Constitution. And who's the Bank of America, by the way?''
 He gets incensed about how ingrained, indoctrinated and insensitive the ex-masters of the universe are. ''They think of themselves as kings and queens,'' he said. And they're not ready to abdicate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CHARITIES (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MUSIC (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (63%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (63%); CANCER (60%)

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST CORP (58%)

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1011 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2149 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: February 25, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 FRANCE VOIDS CONVICTIONS
 Of 5 Former Guantanamo Inmates
 A French appeals court overturned terrorist conspiracy convictions for five former inmates of the Guantanamo Bay prison who were tried and convicted in 2007, after they were returned to France. The ruling is likely to be seen as a precedent for similar cases, and may inject more uncertainty into the process of repatriating inmates released from the prison. PAGE A5 
 DROUGHT IN CHINA'S WHEAT BELT
 Northern China is dry in the best of times. But a long rainless stretch has underscored the urgency of water problems in the region. The drought is crippling not only the country's best wheat farmland, but also the wells that provide clean water to industry and to millions of people. Above, a farmer shows corn harvested last year. PAGE A5 
 LANGUAGE TABOO BROKEN IN TURKEY
 A prominent Kurdish lawmaker gave a speech in his native Kurdish in Turkey's Parliament, breaking taboos and also the law in Turkey, a country that has long repressed its Kurdish minority for fear it would try to secede. Turkey's state television cut off the live broadcast. PAGE A6 
 SOMALIA FIGHTING KILLS AT LEAST 15
 At least 15 people were killed and more than 60 were wounded in Mogadishu, the capital, in multisided fighting between pro-government forces, African Union peacekeepers and Islamist insurgents, witnesses said. PAGE A6 
 CITIZEN INVESTIGATION IN CHINA
 The authorities in China invited the public to help solve the case of a 24-year-old farmer who died of a head injury while in police custody. They selected a 15-member committee from about 1,000 volunteers to visit the scene of the crime, cull the evidence and ''discover the truth.'' But the investigation has fueled a discussion about official attempts to shape popular opinion. PAGE A8 
 Mapping a Lost Venezuelan City A9 
 NEW CHARGES FOR EX-OIL TYCOON
 Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the imprisoned former oil tycoon, has been moved from a Siberian prison to Moscow for a trial on new charges of money laundering and fraud that could extend his prison time, a court official said. Page A9 
 G.I.'S ATTACKED BY IRAQIS IN UNIFORM
 American soldiers were attacked by Iraqi insurgents wearing police uniforms in Mosul, killing one soldier and an Iraqi interpreter and wounding three other soldiers. It was the third assault in the northern city in the last two months by Iraqis wearing the uniforms of officers. The problem of fake checkpoints and infiltration of the police by insurgents has plagued Iraq's security forces for years. PAGE A10 
 National
 CALIFORNIA'S CARBON INITIATIVE
 Meets Vocal Opposition
 California's efforts to restrain carbon emissions in manufacturing, transportation and real estate development have been met with serious objections by companies that must now hurry to conform to the new guidelines, at a time when retrofitting plants and overhauling practices is especially economically painful. PAGE A12 
 FRESHMAN, SOPHOMORE, SENIOR
 Hartwick College, a small liberal arts college in Oneonta, N.Y., has found a novel way of cutting college costs: allowing students to get a degree in three years, instead of four. Students who take the accelerated track will save more than $40,000. PAGE A12
 RECORD YEAR FOR COLLEGE GIFTS
 A survey by the Council for Aid to Education found that universities and colleges pulled in a total of $31.6 billion in gifts, the highest amount ever recorded, but that donations began to trail off as the economy worsened. PAGE A12 
 Justices Hear Cases on Superfund A13 
 STRESS OF WAITING FOR CANCER TESTS
 A new study shows that waiting days for the results of a breast biopsy appears to affect stress hormone levels just as much as finding out you have cancer. PAGE A13 
 Hyperbole in Climate Debates A14 
 E.P.A. TOLD TO REVISIT STANDARDS
 A federal appeals court faulted Bush administration standards for pollutants like soot, or fine particulates. The court ordered the Environmental Protection Agency to reconsider its standards for the pollutants, which the previous administration's own scientific staff rejected as too lax. PAGE A14 
 EX-LOBBYISTS WIN A ROUND
 A federal appeals court ruled in favor of two former lobbyists for the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, a pro-Israel lobbying group, in deciding how much classified information they may use in their defense on charges that they shared information gathered from foreign policy officials in the Bush administration with journalists, Israeli government officials and other members of their organization. PAGE A15 
 Solis Confirmed as Labor Secretary A18 
 A PICK'S LENGTHY CHINA ReSUMe
 People who know Gary Locke say the former Washington governor, expected to be announced as President Obama's latest choice for commerce secretary, is a good fit for the department. But another major selling point for Mr. Locke, the nation's first Chinese-American governor, is his extensive working relationship with China. PAGE A18 
 New York
 CHILD CUSTODY CASE TESTS
 Relations Between U.S. and Brazil
 A legal fight for custody of the child of a New Jersey man and a deceased Brazilian woman has reached the highest levels of the Obama administration and has become a sore point in the relationship between the United States and Brazil, where the boy is. PAGE A21 
 ARCHBISHOP TO DOUBLE AS PITCHMAN
 Recruiters hope that Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan of Milwaukee, the gregarious, football coach-size prelate who was selected by the Vatican to lead the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, can attract more men to the priesthood. PAGE A22 
 2 KILLED IN CHINATOWN BLAZE
 Two people were killed by a fire that swept through a Chinatown tenement and forced residents to stumble through clouds of smoke, jump from windows and climb onto fire escapes in the bitter cold and darkness. At least 18 others were injured. PAGE A23 
 Business
 TALENT-SEEKERS NOW LOOKING 
 For Jobs of Their Own
 Once charged with seeking new talent, recruiters in Silicon Valley have been laid off and are now sending out their own resumes as tech giants have curbed their aggressive hiring. PAGE B1 
 THE TAKEOVER GUESSING GAME
 Drug industry analysts are predicting a wave of acquisitions as patents expire on profitable products, and there's plenty of speculation about which drug makers will try takeovers, or be taken over themselves. PAGE B1 
 DORITOS FOR HER
 Frito-Lay is overhauling all of its calorie-conscious snacks to make them more attractive to women. The company is also trying to replicate its success with its good-for-you messaging on its SunChips brand, which is one of its fastest-growing. PAGE B3 
 RETAILERS GET LEANER TO SURVIVE
 Major retailers like Macy's, Home Depot and Target are trimming the fat in their businesses to stay alive and grab market share as their competitors falter. PAGE B3 F.D.A. MOVES TO FORMER NAVY SITE
 The Food and Drug Administration is consolidating its previously scattered labs and offices to the Naval Surface Warfare Center, a shuttered military base in White Oak, Md. The site is expected to become the anchor of a new biotech hub just outside the Capital Beltway. PAGE B6 
 Arts
 NIETZCHE? HEGEL? JUNG?
 Not in This Economy
 As unemployment lines grow and university endowments shrink, scholars worry that academic disciplines that fall under the ''humanities'' umbrella -- like religion, the arts, cultural studies and philosophy -- will be hit hard as their relevance is questioned. PAGE C1 
 THE OTHER WORDSWORTH
 Because none of Dorothy Wordsworth's writings were published during her lifetime, she is known mostly as the close confidante of her brother, William Wordsworth. Still, no small amount of ink has been spilled trying to fill in the details of her interior life. Frances Wilson's new book, ''The Ballad of Dorothy Wordsworth,'' is the latest attempt to flesh her out, and Dwight Garner writes that the author gets the facts-to-fancy ratio right. PAGE C1 
 POSING WARHOLIAN QUESTIONS
 Jonathan Horowitz is one of innumerable artists influenced by Warhol, and an exhibition of Mr. Horowitz's work at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center feels simultaneously like a hodge-podge of random elements and as if it has one sensibility. A review by Holland Cotter. PAGE C1 
 OF THE SPIRITUAL AND THE PRACTICAL
 Leonard Cohen is preparing to embark on his first United States tour in over a decade. His reasons are both spiritual and pecuniary: He wants to enjoy the Zen-like calm he feels onstage and regain the financial footing he lost when his former manager made off with his money. PAGE C1 
 THE DEFINITION OF 'GAMER' EXPANDS
 At the Design Innovate Communicate Entertain Summit in Las Vegas, some of the video game industry's top minds wrestled with how to tap the new markets created by video games' growing cultural legitimacy while dealing with the difficult changes that growth has meant for many traditional gamers. PAGE C1 
 OPERA'S AGENT OF CHANGE
 Since he became the president of the Vienna State Opera Orchestra, Clemens Hellsberg has pushed for change, trying to increase social awareness and pull opera into the 21st century. PAGE C2 
 Jimmy Eat World at Terminal 5 C7 
 Obituaries
 HOWARD ZIEFF, 81
 A director of movies and commercials, he directed the film ''Private Benjamin'' and a memorable Alka-Seltzer spot in which an actor intones, ''Mama mia, that's a spicy meatball!'' PAGE B16 
 Dining
 NEW FOOD TRADITION IN BROOKLYN,
 By Brooklyn and for Brooklyn
 Handmade chocolate and quality meats butchered on the spot. Handmade knives, pickles, cheeses and a community in which to savor it all. Brooklyn has become a seat for care and craftsmanship in food. One group bought an oven from another and paid in chocolate bars. Apparently, they're that good. Page D1 
 FOLLOW THAT TRUCK!
 It's been getting more buzz than a new restaurant, and people come from miles around to eat there, wherever ''there'' happens to be. It's run out of a truck. The food at Kogi Korean BBQ-To-Go is a fusion out of any known category, but firmly rooted in taste, Jennifer Steinhauer writes. Page D1 
 Feed Me 
 Relax, It's Just the Coat Check
 Have issues with coat check? For such a simple arrangement, it raises a lot of hackles. All that anxiety is really unwarranted, Alex Witchel writes. And please tip. Page D2 
 The Pour 
 What Vintage for the Far East?
 Eric Asimov has a message for all the purveyors of Asian dishes from Bombay to Shanghai: Please, don't forget the wine list. Page D6 
 Dining Briefs D8
 THE SKELETON OF A GOOD SOUP
 The taste, the flavor, even the texture of a soup should cut right down to the bone, be it lamb, pig, chicken or beef. Soup bones are also cheaper to buy and easier to find as farmers and butchers revive the practice of using all the available parts. Page D4 
 Sports
 SOME ZIP IS GONE,
 But Not His Reputation
 At 45, Randy Johnson, the towering left-handed pitcher, has lost some of the speed off his fastball. But he remains a fiery pitching force -- and just five victories short of 300 as he trains with his new team, the San Francisco Giants. PAGE B10 
 Woods Readies for Match Play B10 
 AN EMPTY SEAT AT THE PARTY
 The Utah Jazz is rolling, boasting a five game winning streak. Their play has fans wondering if the perpetual bridesmaid franchise could finally win a championship, even while the organization mourns the death of its owner, Larry H. Miller. PAGE B15 
 Editorial
 PRESIDENT OBAMA'S MOMENT
 President Obama makes his first speech to a joint session of Congress. Page A26
 AND UNEQUAL JUSTICE FOR SOME
 The Supreme Court hears arguments on Wednesday in the case of an illegal immigrant who provided an employer with phony identification numbers. The court must decide whether he can be convicted of aggravated identity theft even though he did not know the numbers belonged to specific people. The government is misusing the identity theft law to pressure illegal immigrants to agree to quick deportation. Page A26
 FOOD STAMPS IN HARD TIMES
 For anyone seeking an instant jolt for the economy, almost nothing beats food stamps. While we can understand Mayor Michael Bloomberg's ideal of ''work, not welfare,'' this is not a time to be stingy with food, especially if Washington is picking up the tab. Page A26
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 It is very useful to come to Asia to be reminded about America's standing in the world these days. All eyes are now on Washington to pull the world out of its economic tailspin. Page A27
 NOT 'COWARDS,' JUST LOUD
 Many of those who have criticized Attorney General Eric Holder for calling America ''a nation of cowards'' for its inability to discuss racial issues frankly take his words out of context. This oversimplification is precisely the problem with our conversations about race, argues Stephen L. Carter, a novelist and Yale law professor, in an Op-Ed article. Page A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); DROUGHT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); PRISONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%); HEAD INJURIES (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); EMISSIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%) CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOMALIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); CUBA (88%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1012 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Economic Crisis Complicates California's Goals on Climate

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: COLTON, Calif. 

 BODY:
Only a few years ago, CalPortland planned on keeping its plant here operating as long as Mount Slover's limestone held out. For more than a century, Colton's kilns and crushing machines have been churning out cement for the streets and buildings of Los Angeles.
 But the company says the plant's future is now uncertain. The recession has sent cement prices plunging, lowered profits and forced CalPortland's drivers to cut back on hours. And the company says it faces new expenses: the cost of meeting California's new requirements that manufacturers take steps to curb emissions of carbon dioxide, the main heat-trapping gas linked to global warming. 
 State regulators have projected that retrofitting the state's 11 cement plants would cost $220 million and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 12 percent per ton of cement. But CalPortland's executives say it would cost more than that to retrofit the Colton plant alone. 
 ''We don't have enough limestone left to invest $200 million,'' said James A. Repman, the company's president.
 California was one of the first states to enact legislation to tackle global warming, with legislators passing a 2006 measure to curb carbon dioxide emissions in all economic sectors, including manufacturing, transportation and real estate development. But the state is also providing a lesson in how contentious carrying out such a law can be, especially at a time of economic crisis.
 What happens in California -- and in other states that have taken steps to reduce emissions -- is being closely watched in Washington, where lawmakers will soon debate federal climate legislation. The Obama administration has said it plans to push for a cap-and-trade bill this year.
 California's law, like federal proposals, has stirred intense fighting over whether its benefits outweigh its costs and what those costs will actually turn out to be. 
 ''We're talking about a transformation of the way of life,'' said Greg Freeman, an economist with the Los Angeles Economic Development Commission. ''There's going to be transitional costs. We can't have the debate about whether the cost is worth paying unless we have a realistic idea of what the cost will be.''
 State regulators predicted in an economic analysis last fall that the climate law would create 100,000 jobs in the state and increase per-capita income by $200 annually by 2020. The upfront cost for the first five years after the law takes effect, they estimated, would be $31.4 billion, about $8.5 billion more than the savings in those years. But if carbon-control costs were spread over the lifespan of the new equipment, the $25 billion in annual costs in the year 2020 would be more than offset by $40 billion in savings.
 The state's plan includes a cap-and-trade model, in which polluters would have to either reduce emissions on their own or buy credits from more efficient producers. 
 At the time of the analysis, Mary D. Nichols, chairwoman of California's Air Resources Board, called them ''good-news numbers.''
 But the projections were strongly criticized as unrealistic by the affected industries and by independent economists who reviewed the analysis -- including two from the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, which supports the emission reduction goals.
 In one withering review, Matthew E. Kahn of the University of California, Los Angeles said the analysis unconvincingly portrayed the law as ''a riskless free lunch.'' Another economist, Robert N. Stavins of Harvard, said the regulators were ''systematically biased'' in ways ''that lead to potentially severe underestimates of costs.''
 Now, with the recession deepening -- unemployment in California is 9.3 percent -- manufacturers like Mr. Repman say the recession will make carrying out the state's plan, the first stage of which goes into effect in 2010, even more difficult and could make the economy worse.
 Mr. Repman said ''2006 was a boom like I'd never seen,'' and ''2008 was a bust like I'd never seen.''
 With profits and Mount Slover's supply of limestone both dwindling, Mr. Repman said, he cannot justify the expense of upgrading the core of the Colton plant, its coal-burning kilns, where 2,000-degree heat turns limestone into a building block of cement.
 If he closes the plant when the new rules take effect, Mr. Repman said, 140 jobs will disappear.
 State regulators say new jobs in renewable energy and green technologies, created as a result of the law, will more than make up for the jobs that are lost. And the law's supporters note that less economic activity means reduced emissions of heat-trapping gases, making the law's goals -- cutting carbon-dioxide emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 -- easier to meet.
 In an interview, Ms. Nichols, of the air resources board said she thought the study's cost estimates fell within an acceptable range. The models used, she said, ''showed the effect of fully implementing the plan on the California economy is minimal -- it could be plus or minus, but it would be minimal.'' 
 She said the critiques by the economists, who were chosen by the state, might have contained some harsh words, but were ''very typical of the kinds of things you would see in peer review of an academic study.''
 A new group of economists -- academics and experts from the business world -- is being assembled to guide planners in the next round of decisions about the rules set to take effect next year.
 Chris Busch, a climate economist with the Center for Resource Solutions, an environmental group, also defended the Air Board's work. 
 ''The excuse that more study is needed,'' Mr. Busch said, ''has been a standard excuse going back to the earliest'' discussions about combating climate change. 
 He added that, ''now that the science is increasingly clear,'' opponents of climate change measures are shifting the debate to economic models ''which are easier to manipulate.'' 
 Yet until the models used by economists estimating the costs and benefits of the legislation can be tested by reality, the debate is likely to continue unresolved. 
 ''There will be job gains -- there will also probably be job losses,'' said Eileen Claussen, president of the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. ''It's not a black and white picture. Those who don't want to do something will focus on the negatives and those who do will focus on the positives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The president of the CalPortland cement company says plunging profits and dwindling limestone supplies have made the cost of upgrading the plant a problem.
CalPortland, which employs 140 people in Colton, Calif., says the economy has put plant's future in doubt. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12)
 The CalPortland plant is one of 11 California cement plants that is being required to upgrade to curb carbon dioxide emissions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) MAP: Colton, Ca. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); CEMENT MFG (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); JOB CREATION (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1013 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Paging Uncle Sam

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Seoul, South Korea 

 BODY:
 It is very useful to come to Asia to be reminded about America's standing in the world these days. For all the talk in recent years about America's inevitable decline, all eyes are not now on Tokyo, Beijing, Brussels or Moscow -- nor on any other pretenders to the world heavyweight crown. All eyes are on Washington to pull the world out of its economic tailspin. At no time in the last 50 years have we ever felt weaker, and at no time in the last 50 years has the world ever seen us as more important.
 While it is true that since the end of the cold war global leaders and intellectuals often complained about a world of too much American power, one doesn't hear much of that grumbling today when most people recognize that only an economically revitalized America has the power to prevent the world economy from going into a global depression. It was always easy to complain about a world of too much American power as long as you didn't have to live in a world of too little American power. And right now, that is the danger: a world of too little American power. 
 Somewhere in the back of their minds, a lot of people seem to be realizing that the alternative to a U.S.-dominated world is not a world dominated by someone else or someone better. It is a leaderless world. Neither Russia nor China has the will or the way to provide the global public goods that America -- at its best -- consistently has. The European Union right now is so split that it cannot even agree on an effective stimulus package.
 No wonder then that even though this economic crisis began in America, with American bad borrowing and bad lending practices, people have nevertheless fled to the U.S. dollar. Case in point: South Korea's currency has lost roughly 40 percent against the dollar in just the last six months. 
 ''No other country can substitute for the U.S.,'' a senior Korean official remarked to me. ''The U.S. is still No. 1 in military, No. 1 in economy, No. 1 in promoting human rights and No. 1 in idealism. Only the U.S. can lead the world. No other country can. China can't. The E.U. is too divided, and Europe is militarily far behind the U.S. So it is only the United States ... We have never had a more unipolar world than we have today.''
 Yes, many Asians resent the fact that Americans scolded them about their banking crisis in the 1990s, and now we've made many of the same mistakes. But that schadenfreude doesn't last long. In random conversations here in Seoul with Korean and Asian thinkers, journalists and business executives, I found people really worried: Could it be, they ask, that the Americans don't know what they are doing, or, worse, that they know what they are doing but the problem is just so much bigger than anything we've ever seen? 
 This is a region where Western brands carry great weight, and for people to see giant U.S. financial brands like Citigroup and A.I.G. teetering is deeply unnerving.
 The big trading nations, like South Korea, are particularly nervous that America will succumb to economic protectionism, which would undermine the global trading system. 
 ''There is no one who can replace America. Without American leadership, there is no leadership,'' said Lee Hong-koo, South Korea's former ambassador to Washington. ''That puts a tremendous burden on the American people to do something positive. You can't be tempted by the usual nationalism. When things don't go well, most people become nationalistic. And in the economic world, that is protectionism ... We are pleased to see President Obama is not doing that. Americans, as a people, should realize how many hopes and expectations other people are putting on their shoulders.''
 And that's just on economics. President Obama's first big security test could come here -- and soon. North Korea has gotten crazier than ever; it has been made even poorer by the global economic crisis and by the withdrawal of aid by the new South Korean government. Now the North is threatening to test one of its Taepodong-2 long-range missiles, which may have the capacity to hit Hawaii, Alaska or beyond.
 The North last tried such a test in 2006, but the rocket exploded 40 seconds after its launch. If the North does test such an intercontinental ballistic missile again, American forces will have to consider blowing it up on the launch pad or shooting it out of the sky. We never should have allowed the North to get a nuclear warhead; we certainly don't want it testing a long-range missile that could deliver that nuclear warhead to our shores, or anywhere else. 
 Never more inward-looking, never more in demand: that's America today. This moment recalls a point raised by the Johns Hopkins University foreign policy expert Michael Mandelbaum in his book, ''The Case for Goliath.'' When it comes to the way other countries view America's pre-eminent role in the world, he wrote, ''whatever its life span, three things can be safely predicted: they will not pay for it; they will continue to criticize it; and they will miss it when it is gone.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CURRENCIES (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (67%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); BELGIUM (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1014 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Stress Test For Banks Exposes Rift On Wall St.

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Big banks keep insisting that they have all the capital they need -- a claim that might strike many people as absurd at a time the government is spending billions of taxpayer dollars to prop up the financial industry.
 So here is a surprise: By some common measures, the banks do have enough capital. 
 The problem is, it is not the kind of capital investors think the banks need. 
 For years, the question of what constitutes a bank's capital, and how to measure it, was largely academic. But the issue is coming to the fore as federal regulators start administering a tough new ''stress test'' to 20 large banks on Wednesday to determine how the banks would withstand a severe economic downturn.
 Investors in the stock market and the banks are increasingly at odds over how to assess the health of financial institutions. Where regulators side could determine the fate of many lenders, particularly big banks like Citigroup and Bank of America, whose share prices have plummeted this year on fears the government will increase its ownership of them. 
 Until the financial system deteriorated last fall, investors focused on what is known as Tier 1 capital, which consists of common stock, preferred stock and hybrid debt-equity instruments. 
 Now, however, they are focusing on what is called tangible equity capital, which includes only common stock, saying it is a better way to measure the risk in bank shares. 
 The difference might sound like something only an accountant would worry about, but it lies at the heart of two questions confounding both Washington and Wall Street: Are the nation's banks sound? And are bank shares a good barometer for the health of the financial system? 
 Sheila C. Bair, the head of the Federal Insurance Deposit Corporation, said on Tuesday that the nation's banking industry was safe. ''All these large banks exceed regulatory standards for being well capitalized, so for right now, they're fine,'' Ms. Bair said on CBS television's ''The Early Show.''
 ''I think the big issue is how much of an additional buffer they have to withstand more adverse economic situations and that's something we're going to try to figure out with a stress test.'' 
 But Citigroup, which maintains that it is well capitalized by its regulators' standards, was nonetheless locked in negotiations with the government on Tuesday over a third rescue. Under the plan, the government is expected to raise its stake in Citigroup to 30 to 40 percent, from about 8 percent now. The deal, which was moving toward completion and could be announced as early as Wednesday, would bolster the level of common stock that investors are focused on. 
 At Bank of America, Kenneth D. Lewis, the chief executive, assured the bank's employees on Monday that Bank of America has enough capital, including common stock. ''I have said repeatedly that our company does not need further assistance today and I don't believe we'll need any more in the future,'' Mr. Lewis wrote in a memorandum.
 Like regulators, investors are struggling to determine how much additional capital banks might require if the recession deepens and unemployment rises, developments that would almost certainly lead to new, heavy losses at banks. 
 Institutions that fail the stress test will be required to raise new capital, probably through more money from the government. 
 Beaten-down financial shares rallied on Tuesday after Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, seemed to rebuff suggestions that banks might be nationalized outright. Even so, Mr. Bernanke offered a sober assessment of the economy to Congress on Tuesday. 
 Details of the bank stress test are scant, but federal regulators are expected to examine the ability of banks to cope with a situation in which unemployment rose to 10 to 12 percent and home prices declined by an additional 20 percent, according to Treasury Department and Federal Reserve officials. While officials say they don't expect such a severe downturn, some economists aren't ruling one out. 
 In recent weeks, federal regulators were planning to continue to demand that banks maintain Tier 1 capital equivalent of at least 6 percent of total assets adjusted for risk. Regulators also want at least half of it in common stock, but have given banks some leeway.
 On Monday, the federal banking regulators issued a statement saying that if the stress test indicated an ''additional capital buffer'' was necessary for some institutions, it ''did not imply a new capital standard and is not expected to be maintained.'' 
 But stock investors are homing in on tangible common equity. Whereas Tier 1 capital gives regulators comfort because it captures a bank's ability to weather a financial storm, stock investors, who suffer the first losses, are worried about their own exposure. Tangible common equity, or T.C.E., they argue, is the best measure for them.
 Until last fall, there was little difference between the two measures. But when the government made big investments of preferred stock to shore up banks, common shareholders became more vulnerable. 
 John McDonald, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, compared the move to an army reinforcing its troops from the back. ''Any reinforcements improve the chances of winning the battle,'' he said. But if you are a stockholder, ''you are still the guy taking the first hit on the front line.''
 Regulators worry that banks' depositors and trading partners might interpret more bad news for banks -- including a continued decline in share prices -- as a sign confidence is flagging. As a result, regulators, too, are focusing more on tangible equity.
 ''If our banking system looks frail and hobbled, we care since there could be a loss of confidence'' Mr. McDonald said. ''But the stock price may very well not be a reflection of the broader risk.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMON STOCK (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (51%); KENNETH D LEWIS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1015 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: A Profit for Medco and a Loss for Tenet

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The pharmacy benefits manager Medco Health Solution reported a fourth-quarter profit on Tuesday while the hospital operator Tenet Healthcare posted a loss. 
 Medco said profit rose 32 percent, partly on increased sales of generic and mail-order drugs as customers tried to save money in a deteriorating economy. Those businesses, typically cheaper for customers, are also more profitable for Medco, which manages prescription benefits for about one in 5 Americans. The company's gross profit margin increased to 7.5 percent, from 6.7 percent. 
 The company, based in Franklin Lakes, N.J., earned $274.4 million, or 54 cents a share, compared with $207.6 million, or 38 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 14 percent to $12.96 billion.
 Excluding charges, the company says it earned 59 cents a share. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected a profit of 58 cents a share on revenue of $12.73 billion.
 Medco expected a profit in 2009 of $2.67 to $2.77 a share, while analysts expect $2.71.
 For the three months ended Dec. 27, 2008, Medco said mail-order prescriptions, which typically deliver a 90-day supply of a drug, increased 9.4 percent, to 26.7 million, and retail prescription volume edged up 1 percent, to 118.3 million.
 Revenue from the specialty pharmacy business, which provides drugs for chronic and complex ailments, grew 30.6 percent to $2.07 billion. Over all, total prescription volume for the year rose 6.4 percent, while mail order alone rose 11.6 percent and retail rose 3.3 percent.
 For the full year, the company earned $1.1 billion, or $2.13 a share, compared with profit of $912 million, or $1.63 a share, in 2007. Revenue rose to $51.26 billion from $44.51 billion. Tenet Healthcare, which is based in Dallas, trimmed its fourth-quarter loss by more than half, but said Tuesday its paying admissions showed little growth in a struggling economy
 The company said it lost $33 million, or 7 cents a share, on $2.2 billion in revenue in the quarter that ended Dec. 31. That compared with a loss of $75 million, or 16 cents a share, on $2.1 billion in revenue for the quarter in 2007.
 Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected, on average, a loss of 2 cents a share on $2.2 billion in revenue for the quarter.
 Same-hospital paying admissions, which exclude charity care and the uninsured, were essentially flat. But charity and uninsured admissions fell by more than 4 percent, the company said.
 Even so, bad debt grew 23 percent, to $163 million, from $133 million. Bad debt is the amount of debt a hospital incurs from treating uninsured or underinsured patients and has been unable to collect.
 Tenet said that figure grew because the company's collection rate from patients fell to about 33 percent, from 35 percent.
 Tenet operates 52 hospitals in 12 states. Earlier this month, the company said two of its subsidiaries will sell USC University Hospital and USC Kenneth Norris Jr. Cancer Hospital to the University of Southern California.
 Tenet will receive up to $275 million from the sale of the property and equipment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (91%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PHARMACIES (78%); CHARITIES (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1016 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 311 words

 BODY:
DEAL WITH IT: TAXES WILL RISE Relatively low taxes are incompatible with the kinds of government programs that Americans like -- so, like it or not, taxes must go up. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. 
 SOBER WORDS FROM THE FED The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, offered a sober assessment of the national economy and the prospects of recovery to Congress. [B1.]
 A BOUNCE ON WALL STREET Stock markets bounced back on from their lowest levels in more than 11 years after the Fed chairman calmed investor fears that the government would nationalize major banks. [B5.]
 CAPITAL QUESTION FOR BANKS Big banks keep insisting that they have all the capital they need, and by some measures, they do. The problem is, it is not the kind of capital investors think the banks need. [B1.] 
 JOBLESS HEAD-HUNTERS If anyone should know how to find a job, it would be a professional recruiter -- but many of them, laid off in a sinking economy, face the same frustrations as other unemployed workers. [B1.]
 CROSSROADS FOR A.I.G. The American International Group faces two distasteful options: sell prized assets to competitors or hand over a big part of its business to the government. [B5.]
 A FEW RETAIL SUCCESSES In a bleak economy, retail chains have to work hard to attract customers. Some, like Home Depot, are doing it better than others. [B3.]
 PREDICTING DRUG MERGERS Playing the pharmaceutical version of Fantasy Baseball, analysts are dreaming up big-league mergers in the drug business, and they have a long list. [B1.] 
 FRITO-LAY GOES FOR WOMEN Frito-Lay is overhauling all of its calorie-conscious snacks to make them appeal to women, including the baked versions, left, of Lays, Fritos, Ruffles, Doritos, Cheetos and Tostitos. Advertising. [B3.]
 GOOGLE VS. MICROSOFT Google said it would seek to join a European Union antitrust case over Microsoft's Web browser. [B6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); MERGERS (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); WOMEN (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SNACK FOODS (69%); BASEBALL (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); RETAILERS (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); FRITO-LAY INC (54%); GOOGLE INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1017 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Gifts to Colleges Fall After Record Highs

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
Gifts to colleges and universities broke all records in 2008, but began to decline as the recession deepened, and will most likely continue to do so for the next two years, according to a survey by the Council for Aid to Education.
 Donations for the 2008 fiscal year, which ended in July, grew 6.2 percent, with universities pulling in a total of $31.6 billion, the highest amount ever recorded, according to the survey. 
 The survey includes only anecdotal reports about giving since the end of the fiscal year, when the economy began its dive. But Ann E. Kaplan, the survey director, said several institutions had ''hit a wall'' this January, with a sharp drop in the number and amount of donations. 
 ''It's vastly different now than it was then,'' Ms. Kaplan said.
 Every institution she spoke to, Ms. Kaplan said, reported that donors who had made multiyear pledges had asked to renegotiate those gifts, to allow more time to complete them.
 And last year's increase mostly reflected the rich getting richer. The 20 universities at the top of the list reported big gains, but gifts to the remaining 1,032 institutions responding to the survey were down 4.2 percent.
 The top 20 institutions raised a total of $8.41 billion, $745.3 million more than the top 20 in 2007. While those universities make up just 1.9 percent of the institutions, their donations accounted for 26.6 percent of all gifts.
 Stanford ranked first for donations with $785 million, followed by Harvard, at $650.6 million. Columbia moved from fifth ranked in 2007 to third, raising $495.1 million in 2008. Yale moved from eighth in 2007 to fourth, raising $486.6 million in 2008. 
 The University of California, Los Angeles, raised the most of any public institution, coming in sixth on the list, with $456.6 million, followed by the University of Wisconsin-Madison, ranked eighth with $410.2 million.
 The richest institutions have been cutting their budgets as they suffer sharp declines in the value of their endowments and predict a drop in donations because of the slumping stock market. Harvard recently announced that it would seek 1,600 buyouts and slow a campus expansion. 
 Yale's president, Richard C. Levin, announced Tuesday that the university was postponing $2 billion in building projects and that layoffs were possible.
 Many of the public universities in the top 20 are also paring budgets as states reduce their support.
 The survey warns that the big donations are unlikely to solve immediate budget concerns, because about half of all gifts are earmarked by donors to be used for endowments or other capital investments, and cannot be used for current expenses. 
 The best way to forecast the effect of the recession on donations, Ms. Kaplan said, is to look at past trends. The report, known as the Voluntary Support of Education survey, argues that three factors have historically affected donations: the strength of the stock market, the overall health of the economy as measured by gross domestic product, and tax law. 
 The best comparison, Ms. Kaplan said, is the mid 1970s, when a recession combined with declines in the stock market, and donations to higher education fell sharply. Based on that lesson, the report expects that donations will decline in 2009, and even more so in 2010, then rebound.
 ''The only thing that makes this period possibly somewhat better is that inflation is low,'' Ms. Kaplan said.
 The largest percentage of overall donations, 28.8 percent, came from foundations, and the second largest, 27.5 percent, coming from alumni. Non-alumni individuals accounted for 19.4 percent of donations, and corporations, for 15.5 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: GIVING TO TOP SCHOOLS: Donations to the top 10 universities, in terms of fund-raising, generally increased from 2007 to 2008, but many institutions reported the beginning of a decline toward the end of last year. (Source: Council for Aid to Education) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RANKINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TRENDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); LAYOFFS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL FOR AID TO EDUCATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1018 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Said to Be Losing Competitive Edge

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The competitive edge of the United States economy has eroded sharply over the last decade, according to a new study by a nonpartisan research group.
 The report by the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation found that the United States ranked sixth among 40 countries and regions, based on 16 indicators of innovation and competitiveness. They included venture capital investment, scientific researchers, spending on research and educational achievement. 
 But the American economy placed last in terms of progress made over the last decade. ''The trend is very troubling,'' said Robert D. Atkinson, president of the foundation. 
 Measuring national competitiveness and the capacity for innovation is tricky. Definitions and methods differ, and so do the outcomes. For example, the World Economic Forum's recent global competitiveness report ranked the United States first. Much of the forum's report is based on opinion surveys. 
 A report last year by the Rand Corporation concluded that the United States was in ''no imminent danger'' of losing its competitive advantage in science and technology.
 The new report, published on Wednesday, offers a more pessimistic portrait. Its assessment is in line with a landmark study in late 2005, ''Rising Above the Gathering Storm,'' by the National Academies, the nation's leading science advisory group. It warned that America's lead in science and technology was ''eroding at a time when many other nations are gathering strength.''
 President Obama has often said that in the future, international prosperity will depend on the United States becoming an ''innovation economy.'' The administration's economic recovery package includes added spending for areas favored by innovation policy advocates, including higher research and development spending and funds for high-technology fields like electronic health records. But the administration has no coordinated innovation agenda.
 Some countries, including Singapore, Taiwan, Finland and China, are pursuing policies that are explicitly designed to spur innovation. These policies typically try to nurture a broader ''ecology of innovation,'' which often includes education, training, intellectual property protection and immigration. This is in contrast to the industrial policy of the 1980s in which governments helped pick winners among domestic industries.
 The foundation study, according to John Kao, a former professor at the Harvard business school and an innovation consultant to governments and corporations, is an ambitious effort at measurement. He called its conclusions ''a wake-up call.''
 In the foundation report, unlike some competitiveness studies, results were adjusted for the size of each economy and its population. Consequently, the United States ranked sixth in venture capital investment (Sweden was first); fifth in corporate research and development spending (Japan led); and fourth in science and technology researchers (again, Sweden was first). 
 Over all, the most innovatively competitive nation was Singapore, which embarked on a national innovation strategy years ago, investing heavily and recruiting leading scientists and technologists from around the world.
 Mr. Atkinson of the foundation said the United States should act more like the individual states had been doing for some time. They have government programs to attract investment and talent and improve work force skills of local people.
 The study's specific recommendations include federal incentives for American companies to innovate at home, ranging from research tax incentives to work force development tax credits. Public investments and regulatory incentives can accelerate the use of information technology in health care, energy systems, transportation, government and education.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Li Yang, a scientist at Paradigm Therapeutics in Singapore. Innovation and research are growing sectors on the island.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSLAN RAHMAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); MEDICAL RECORDS (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); IMMIGRATION (64%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1019 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Google Joins Europe Case Against Microsoft

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Accusing Microsoft of unfairly sidelining competitors, Google said on Tuesday that it would apply to join a European Union antitrust case against Microsoft over the company's Web browser.
 The case, initiated by the E.U. in January, accused Microsoft of illegally tying Internet Explorer to Windows to stifle competition in the browser market, breathing new life into issues that were at the core of the landmark Department of Justice antitrust suit against Microsoft a decade ago. The E.U. acted after it received a complaint from Opera, an Oslo-based maker of a competing browser. Mozilla, which makes the Firefox browser, applied to join the case earlier this month. 
 Google, which last year rolled out Chrome, a competing browser, said it was also applying to become a ''third party'' in the European proceeding. 
 ''Google believes that the browser market is still largely uncompetitive, which holds back innovation for users,'' Sundar Pichai, a vice president for product management, wrote in a Google blog. ''This is because Internet Explorer is tied to Microsoft's dominant computer operating system, giving it an unfair advantage over other browsers.''
 Google declined to make anyone available to discuss its announcement. By becoming a party to the case, it would participate in the proceedings and gain access to the confidential ''statement of objections'' that European regulators sent to Microsoft last month. Google could also argue for remedies it prefers. 
 Microsoft declined to comment on Google's announcement. In January it said that it was still studying the European complaint. Microsoft later revealed that the European Commission was threatening a ''significant fine'' against Microsoft. The company also said regulators might force it to include rival browsers on computers that sold with the Windows operating system. 
 Antitrust experts said that it was not surprising for a competitor like Google to join the case, but they questioned the timing of the European action, which came as rival browsers were steadily gaining market share. 
 Microsoft's share of the browser market had decreased to 68 percent in January, from about 80 percent two years ago, according to Net Applications, a research firm. Firefox had about 21.5 percent of the market, while Safari, made by Apple, 8.3 percent, and Google's Chrome, 1 percent. 
 ''This new complaint is not necessary and actually seems like it is instigated to protect particular competitors rather than the competitive process,'' said Samuel R. Miller, a partner at Sidley Austin in San Francisco who acted as special trial counsel for the Justice Department's first antitrust case against Microsoft. ''The browser has changed fundamentally from a decade ago.''
 This is not the first time that Google and Microsoft have been on opposite sides of antitrust claims. In 2006, Google complained to the Justice Department and to European regulators that Microsoft was using Internet Explorer to unfairly drive users to its search service, at the expense of Google's. The Justice Department determined that the design of Microsoft's browser did not pose a threat to competition. 
 Google also lobbied against Microsoft's proposed acquisition of Yahoo, which fell apart after Yahoo repeatedly rejected Microsoft's offers in 2008. 
 Microsoft, for its part, lobbied against Google's acquisition of DoubleClick and a proposed advertising pact between Google and Yahoo, which Google abandoned after the Justice Department said it planned to file suit to block it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET BROWSERS (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); LAWYERS (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1020 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: For a New Generation, Kimchi Goes With Tacos

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 AS the sun begins to sink behind the Santa Monica Mountains and the northbound traffic thickens on the 405 freeway, the hungry refresh their browsers. 
 After obsessively checking the Twitter postings of the Korean taco maker to see where the truck will park next, they begin lining up -- throngs of college students, club habitues, couples on dates and guys having conversations about spec scripts. 
 And they wait, sometimes well beyond an hour, all for the pleasure of spicy bites of pork, chicken or tofu soaked in red chili flake vinaigrette, short ribs doused in sesame-chili salsa roja or perhaps a blood sausage sauteed with kimchi, all of it wrapped in a soft taco shell. 
 The food at Kogi Korean BBQ-To-Go, the taco vendor that has overtaken Los Angeles, does not fit into any known culinary category. One man overheard on his cellphone as he waited in line on a recent night said it best: ''It's like this Korean Mexican fusion thing of crazy deliciousness.'' 
 The truck is a clear cult hit in Los Angeles, drawing more buzz than any new restaurant. A sister vehicle and a taco stand within a Culver City bar were recently added to quell the crowds, which Kogi's owner put at about 400 customers a night. 
 Kogi, the brainchild of two chefs, has entered the city's gastro-universe at just the right moment. Its tacos and burritos are recession-friendly at $2 a pop. The truck capitalizes on emerging technology by sending out Twitter alerts so fans know where to find it at any given time. 
 Yet Kogi's popularity and the sophistication of its street food also demonstrate the emerging firepower of this city's Korean food purveyors. 
 In the last few years, second-generation Korean Angelenos and more recent immigrants have played their own variations on their traditional cuisine and taken it far beyond the boundaries of Korean-dominated neighborhoods. These chefs and entrepreneurs are fueled in large part by tech-boom money here and in South Korea, culinary-school educations and in some cases, their parents' shifting perspectives about the profession of cooking. In the last year, new Korean restaurants have popped up on the powerhouse restaurant strips of Washington Boulevard in Culver City and Beverly Boulevard in West Hollywood. In an area of West Los Angeles dominated by Japanese restaurants, bibimbop has joined the fray. 
 ''We thought Korean food was under-represented here, and we were right,'' said Robert Benson, the executive chef of Gyenari in Culver City, who has two Korean partners. ''There is a certain mysticism to Korean food, and we have tried to make it more accessible.'' 
 Korean food has blipped on the radar of culinary trend watchers before, but it never seems to gain momentum. In part, Mr. Benson said: ''It is because there is a misconception about Korean food. Japanese food is high protein, low in fat and is this very clean cuisine, where Korean food has reputation as being not healthy. So it has not taken off like it should, but I think it is going to. I can feel the groundswell. David Chang in New York'' -- the Korean-American chef whose inventions include oysters on the half shell with kimchi consomme -- ''has helped that, too. I don't think it will be long before we see a P. F. Chang's-type chain of Korean food.''
 At the same time, an increasing number of Korean chefs and restaurateurs here have aligned themselves with other nations' cuisines, to great acclaim.
 One of the city's hottest hamburger spots, Father's Office, is owned by Sang Yoon, 39, who immigrated to Los Angeles from Korea when he was a year old. He cooked at Michael's in Santa Monica before taking over an old bar nearby, now packed with people willing enough to wait in line for an Office Burger, served with Mr. Yoon's choice of accompaniments (caramelized onions, blue cheese, Gruyere, arugula), not theirs. A second Father's Office recently opened in Los Angeles.
 Scoops, an artisanal ice cream store in East Hollywood that whips up strawberry balsamic vinegar and brown bread treats, is run by Tai Kim, who came with his family to California from Korea as a teenager. Korean-Americans have made their mark in the frozen-yogurt trade, too. Pinkberry? Red Mango? Check, check. 
 ''The first generation of Korean immigrants here mainly catered toward a Korean clientele, or made grocery markets catering to a minority clientele,'' said Edward Chang, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California, Riverside. ''But more recent immigrants have ethnic and capital resources that enable them to branch out in the mainstream economy.'' 
 Thus, ''Korean-Americans have gained visibility since the unrest of 1992,'' when riots targeted Korean-owned businesses, he said, ''and over the last 10 to 15 years, they became much more visible. In terms of economic and political spheres, they are forces to be reckoned with.''
 At the California School of Culinary Arts over the last two years, Korean students have been one of the fastest-growing immigrant groups, said Mario Novo, a spokesman for the school. 
 ''One of our brand new students told me how excited he was to go to the school because in his culture the men do not cook and his mother was fighting against him,'' Mr. Novo said. ''Until they saw how serious he was. Now his mother is coming around.''
 The Korean taco truck may be the ultimate outgrowth of the evolving Korean-American culture and inventiveness, inspired in part, like so many entrepreneurial adventures, by a bit of desperation. 
 This past September, the chef Roy Choi, 38, who began his career at Le Bernardin in New York and worked as the chef in several Los Angeles restaurants, including RockSugar, found himself out of a job and running out of cash. He had coffee with Mark Manguera, a former co-worker, who suggested that they operate a taco cart with a Korean twist. 
 At home that night, Mr. Choi said, the idea, which had sounded half crazy in the morning, began to make some sense. ''I have always been searching for a way of trying to express myself,'' he said. A business model with seven partners was quickly formed. The marketing plan included putting someone in charge of social networking, through which Kogi got its initial publicity when the truck first rolled out, two months after the fateful coffee date.
 Then there is Mr. Choi, who called himself ''the angry chef.'' He works every night with about five employees who squeeze into the tiny, pristine space, clowns-in-a-car style, grilling meats and whipping up sauces for the crowds who wait, sometimes as long as two hours, for their tacos. 
 The idea, Mr. Choi said, was to bring his ethnic background together with the sensibility and geography of Los Angeles, where Koreatown abuts Latino-dominated neighborhoods in midcity and where food cultures have long merged. Former Mexican restaurants, now Korean, serve burritos, and Mexican workers populate the kitchens of Korean restaurants. 
 ''We tried to marry two cultures,'' Mr. Choi said, ''with this crazy idea of putting Korean barbecue meat inside a tortilla. We have never tried to make it any more pretentious or different from that, and we wanted to be very simple but delicious.'' To that end, Mr. Choi said, he buys from the meat purveyors used by some of the city's high-end restaurants and scours the farmers' markets for the best vegetables. 
 The whole operation is part culinary event -- the delicious tang of pickled cabbage, the melt-on-the tongue caramel of seared meats, the bite of red chili flakes and jalapenos -- and part party. Mr. Choi likes to park his truck at the U.C.L.A. campus and outside bars and clubs around town, to take advantage of the street theater. 
 This week, his team began leasing space in the Alibi Room, a lounge in Culver City, serving up kimchi sesame quesadillas ($7) and hot dogs with kimchi sauerkraut and Korean ketchup.
 ''It has evolved into a socio-cultural thing for me,'' he said. ''It is my vision of L.A. in one bite.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPICY BITES: Top, a Kogi barbecue truck in Venice Beach, Calif. Above, Father's Office, for hamburgers. Right, kalbi at Gyenari.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (77%); MOUNTAINS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); PORK (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1021 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Bill That Threatens City's Term-Limit Change Picks Up Support in Albany

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
In what would be a rebuke to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, legislative committees in the State Senate and Assembly are poised to approve a bill that would effectively undo the law that allows the mayor to run for a third term this fall.
 Supporters of the legislation, which would prevent city lawmakers across the state from revising term limits laws without a voter referendum, said Tuesday that they had the support they needed to advance the bills out of the appropriate committees in both houses. 
 The Assembly Committee on Election Law will vote on Wednesday morning. The Senate Elections Committee is scheduled to vote on March 10.
 Three members of the Assembly committee, who spoke anonymously to avoid pre-empting their colleagues on the sensitive issue, said there were at least eight affirmative votes, the minimum needed to ensure approval. 
 The bill's chief sponsor in the Senate, Kevin S. Parker of Brooklyn, said of the majority needed on the Elections Committee: ''We have it.''
 The bill would apply retroactively and require a referendum on term limits in New York City in May.
 Still, the committees are only the first step toward approval in both chambers, and considerable questions remain about whether the measure will ever become law. 
 While the speaker of the Assembly, Sheldon Silver, and the Senate majority leader, Malcolm A. Smith, have both said they would allow the bills to advance through the legislative process, it is not clear if a broader appetite exists to take the issue on. Approval in the Senate will prove particularly difficult because Republicans, who occupy 30 of the 62 seats, have solidly backed the mayor in the past. 
 The legislation would also have to be signed by Gov. David A. Paterson, and Mr. Paterson has expressed support for Mr. Bloomberg's efforts to run for a third term
 And even if the proposal did become law, it would likely face a challenge in the courts and a review by the Justice Department, which must sign off on most city and state measures that revise election law.
 Regardless of the potential obstacles to passage, supporters of the measure said on Tuesday that few thought they would make it to this point, and they viewed committee approval as a significant milestone.
 ''Many of my colleagues have adopted the view that it is appropriate for the state Legislature to establish a uniform standard on the question of term limits,'' said Hakeem Jeffries, a Brooklyn Democrat who sponsored the legislation in the Assembly. 
 He added: ''This effort is not anti-Bloomberg. But it is pro-democracy, and designed to provide the people of the city of New York with the opportunity to decide the way in which its municipal governance will take shape.''
 A spokesman for the mayor, Stu Loeser, declined to comment.
 After the City Council approved the bill last October that loosened the term limits law and allowed the mayor and council members to serve 12 years rather than 8, some vocal members of the Legislature's New York City delegation began to strategize about how to stop the measure, viewing themselves as the last line of defense in an issue that has polarized city voters. 
 ''I think it's important that we let the people decide,'' said Brian Kavanagh, a Democratic assemblyman who represents Manhattan. ''This is a situation where 90 percent of New York voters think it should go to a referendum. And it shouldn't come as a surprise that many in the Legislature agree.''
 While Mr. Bloomberg enjoys high approval ratings, his handling of the term limits issue drew criticism. New York City voters have affirmed term limits twice in referendums, and many said the law should not be undone without another referendum. 
 It is also unclear how members of the Legislature, who are grappling with a $15 billion budget deficit, will respond to term limits legislation at this time.
 ''Many argue that we should be exclusively focused on dealing with the economic crisis,'' Mr. Jeffries said. ''But I believe that the integrity of our democracy is just as important, and we in the Legislature have the ability to multitask.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Kevin S. Parker, shown in 2008, is behind a bill that would force New York City to hold a referendum on term limits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TERM LIMITS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); APPROVALS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); HAKEEM JEFFRIES (79%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1022 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chairman Says Recession Will Extend Through the Year

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL and JACK HEALY; Catherine Rampell reported from Washington and Jack Healy from New York.

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, offered a sober assessment of the national economy and the prospects of recovery to Congress on Tuesday, as reports of plunging housing prices and consumer confidence reinforced the grim outlook.
 Mr. Bernanke told the Senate banking committee that the Federal Reserve was doing everything it could to unlock credit markets and encourage lending and borrowing. Still, a full recovery is potentially at least a year away, he said, and that is if all goes according to plan.
 ''If actions taken by the administration, the Congress and the Federal Reserve are successful in restoring some measure of financial stability -- and only if that is the case, in my view -- there is a reasonable prospect that the current recession will end in 2009 and that 2010 will be a year of recovery,'' Mr. Bernanke said. 
 Though he lingered over the seriousness of the financial crisis enveloping the country, the Fed chairman buoyed investors by stating his resistance to any nationalization of the big banks. The prospect of the government taking up to a 40 percent stake in Citigroup in return for more assistance has pushed the idea to the fore. 
 ''We don't need majority ownership to work with the banks,'' he said, arguing that federal agencies have enough supervisory power to nurse banks back to full health. Taking over banks more formally would needlessly ''destroy the franchise value'' of the institutions, he said.
 As required, Mr. Bernanke addressed the Fed's dual mandate of stable prices and maximum employment in the first installment of his twice-annual report to each house of Congress. The former part of the Fed's mission has largely been met, with prices more or less where they were a year ago, and inflation expected to glide under 1 percent this year. 
 But the job market continues to deteriorate. The unemployment rate, which rose to 7.6 percent in January, will probably reach 8.5 to 8.8 percent by the end of the year, according to Mr. Bernanke's report to Congress. The gross domestic product, which fell at an annual rate of 3.8 percent in the last quarter of 2008, will contract 0.5 to 1.25 percent this year.
 Two barometers of the economy, the housing market and consumer attitudes, turned in dismal readings the morning the chairman appeared on Capitol Hill. 
 Home prices in the United States fell at the fastest pace on record in December, according to the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller home price index. The value of single-family homes in 20 major metropolitan areas was 18.5 percent lower in December than a year earlier.
 According to a report by the private Conference Board, consumers described their current situation and their expected situation in six months in harsh terms. The group's index of consumer confidence dropped to a new low of 25 in February, from 37.4 a month earlier. That was the lowest since it began tracking consumer sentiment in 1967.
 Mr. Bernanke acknowledged there was a risk that the economy would become even worse than the Fed is currently forecasting. 
 The global nature of the economic slowdown, as well as a ''so-called adverse feedback loop'' -- the idea that economic and financial conditions become mutually reinforcing -- threaten to delay recovery, he said.
 He urged support for the significant -- and sometimes unpopular -- fiscal and monetary interventions being made by the government.
 Some senators, like Evan Bayh, a Democrat from Indiana, questioned whether it was fair or even wise for the government to continue bailing out financial institutions and homeowners who had behaved irresponsibly.
 In response, Mr. Bernanke compared the government's situation to one in which a neighbor smoked in bed and accidentally caught his house on fire. You could punish the neighbor for his irresponsibility by not calling the fire department, Mr. Bernanke said. But by the time the neighbor learned his lesson, the entire neighborhood would have burned down.
 He said policy makers should look at their task as two-pronged. The first goal is to prevent the economy from worsening in the near term. The second is to devise substantial, longer-term reforms of the financial regulatory system, to prevent future irresponsibility.
 Mr. Bernanke repeatedly advocated revamping federal oversight of financial institutions, which are now supervised by a patchwork of federal agencies that monitor different functions and, he said, never get a full picture of a company's overall financial health. 
 The Fed, he suggested, should look at the smaller companies underneath the umbrella of a bank holding company so that the various risks a financial institution takes do not ''get out of the line of vision of regulators.''
 In a joint program with other federal regulatory agencies, the Fed announced Monday that the nation's 20 biggest banks would have to undergo a ''stress test'' to determine their viability. The test will be used to measure whether banks have enough capital to survive a worsening downturn.
 To Mr. Bernanke's first goal of shoring up the economy, the Fed has taken extraordinary steps in recent months to increase the flow of credit to businesses and households. 
 When it comes to setting interest rates, it has nearly exhausted its options. In December the Federal Open Market Committee lowered its key interest rate to virtually zero, to encourage lending. 
 The Fed has also been buying mortgage-backed securities that have been guaranteed by the federal government. 
 It has expanded its lending operations to banks. In one new program, it aims to finance consumer loans, recently announcing it would expand that effort in both size and scope. Through a commercial paper program, it is providing businesses with loans in exchange for short-term i.o.u.'s.
 Mr. Bernanke said these actions had contributed to improvements in short-term financing markets and the commercial paper market, as well as to declines in rates for conforming mortgages -- loans that meet Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guidelines -- and the benchmark rate, known as Libor, on which borrowing costs for consumers and businesses are often based.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke of the Fed spoke Tuesday to the Senate banking committee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 People lined up as early as 7 a.m. for a job fair at a Midtown hotel Tuesday. Ben Bernanke's report to Congress predicted the jobless rate would probably reach 8.5 to 8.8 percent by year-end.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) CHART: Consumer Confidence: Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100.(Source: The Conference Board)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NATIONALIZATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1023 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Time of Reckoning

 BODY:
If we have had doubts about the way President Obama has been handling the multitudinous disasters bequeathed to him by George W. Bush, starting with the cascading economic crisis, it was that we wanted to see more of Barack Obama the candidate in Barack Obama the president. He has not been assertive, ambitious, clear -- or audacious -- enough.
 Mr. Obama's first speech to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night was his chance to change that, and he rose to the occasion. He sounded confident -- promising that the nation will rebuild and ''emerge stronger than before'' -- without minimizing the grave problems that must first be surmounted. 
 He drew a bright line between his view of the responsibilities of government and that of the Republicans who helped create this mess and have stubbornly provided no help to Mr. Obama in cleaning it up. 
 Mr. Obama rightly said that the country's economic problems did not ''begin when the housing market collapsed or the stock market sank.'' 
 He said the nation has long known that it needs to break its dependence on oil, reform health care and fix its schools. ''And though all these challenges went unsolved, we still managed to spend more money and pile up more debt, both as individuals and through our government, than ever before,'' he said.
 The economic crisis requires immediate, bold and comprehensive action. And on Tuesday night, Mr. Obama displayed the ambition and the sweeping vision that won him the White House -- and that this crisis demands. 
 Mr. Obama said that reviving the economy and rescuing the nation's banking system not only can be, but must be, accomplished at the same time as reforming health care, investing in education and finding new sources of alternative energy. 
 It was a refreshing change after his less-than-forceful handling of the stimulus bill. Mr. Obama's desire to make good on his campaign promise of bipartisanship is admirable, and he may well heal Washington's divisions over time. But he and his aides tried too hard to win support from an opposition that shows no signs of reciprocating. The resulting package was smaller and less focused than what is needed to address the economy's profound problems. 
 We can now only hope that Mr. Obama will use his 2010 budget proposal, which he unveils this week, to forcefully press his broader economic agenda.
 Mr. Obama said he would end the tax cuts that Mr. Bush enacted for the wealthiest of Americans. But that alone will not get him to his goal of halving the budget deficit in four years, nor will the other cost cutting he discussed Tuesday night. To achieve that, he will inevitably have to raise more taxes. 
 On Tuesday night, Mr. Obama also pledged to make health care reform an immediate top priority. He said he suffered ''no illusions'' that the process would be easy but insisted that it ''cannot wait, it must not wait and it will not wait another year.'' 
 The president is right. The growing ranks of unemployed and uninsured Americans need health coverage, and shaky businesses need relief from the burden of high health care costs. The time to move boldly and rapidly on health care reform is now, while the need is great and Mr. Obama's popularity is still high.
 One disappointment in Mr. Obama's speech was his failure to deliver any more clarity on his plan to rescue the nation's banking system. He said he would not provide bailouts ''with no strings attached.''
 But he offered even less specificity than the administration has in recent weeks. The choices are indisputably difficult, and Mr. Obama may be trying to keep his options open. His team has seemed skittish about the increasingly obvious need for some form of government takeover of some of the biggest banks. If Mr. Obama has a better plan, the nation needs to hear it soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); TAX RELIEF (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1024 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Amid Gloom, Obama Pledges a Recovery

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT; Brian Knowlton contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama appealed to the determination and optimism of the American people on Tuesday evening, telling them that it will take a long time for the teetering economy to right itself, but that better days will come if they join him in building a new economic foundation for a new century.
 ''Now is the time to act boldly and wisely, to not only revive this economy, but to build a new foundation for lasting prosperity,'' the president said. ''Now is the time to jump-start job creation, re-start lending, and invest in areas like energy, health care, and education that will grow our economy, even as we make hard choices to bring our deficit down.''
 In speaking to a joint session of Congress and to the American people, President Obama was trying for a message at once bracing and heartening, and also trying to gain momentum for ambitious policy objectives like health care and education reform and lower federal deficits, and all this in a time of economic unease. 
 ''While our economy may be weakened and our confidence shaken; though we are living through difficult and uncertain times, tonight I want every American to know this: We will rebuild, we will recover, and the United States of America will emerge stronger than before,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The weight of this crisis will not determine the destiny of this nation,'' the president said. ''The answers to our problems don't lie beyond our reach. They exist in our laboratories and universities; in our fields and our factories; in the imaginations of our entrepreneurs and the pride of the hardest-working people on Earth.''
 ''Those qualities that have made America the greatest force of progress and prosperity in human history we still possess in ample measure. What is required now is for this country to pull together, confront boldly the challenges we face, and take responsibility for our future once more.''
 Nor has America shied from big challenges in other times of crisis, he said, citing the transcontinental railroad that was being built during the Civil War and the moon missions carried out during the Cold War.
 On the theme of responsibility, the president delivered a lecture to politicians, business people, bankers and, to an extent, ordinary Americans chasing the American dream.
 ''We have lived through an era where too often, short-term gains were prized over long-term prosperity; where we failed to look beyond the next payment, the next quarter, or the next election,'' the president told Congress and his countrymen. 
 ''A surplus became an excuse to transfer wealth to the wealthy instead of an opportunity to invest in our future. Regulations were gutted for the sake of a quick profit at the expense of a healthy market,'' he said. ''People bought homes they knew they couldn't afford from banks and lenders who pushed those bad loans anyway. And all the while, critical debates and difficult decisions were put off for some other time on some other day. 
 ''Well, that day of reckoning has arrived, and the time to take charge of our future is here.'' 
 The president said he understands the anger of Americans toward banks whose bad decisions helped bring on the present crisis (''I promise you, I get it''), but that ''we cannot afford to govern out of anger,'' and that assistance for banks is essential. 
 In his allusion to gutted regulations and transfer of wealth to the already wealthy, President Obama was implicitly criticizing many of the policies carried out under former President George W. Bush and his Republican allies in Congress.
 The Republican Party's response was offered by Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, like the president an American with a remarkable heritage, who was expected to say he shares the president's belief in optimism but thinks that the Democratic approach will lead to bloated government and debt stretching to the distant horizon.
 ''To solve our current problems, Washington must lead,'' Mr. Jindal, who is of Indian descent, said, in excerpts of his rebuttal speech, to be given immediately after the president's address and released in advance by the Republican National Committee. ''But the way to lead is not to raise taxes and put more money and power in hands of Washington politicians.'' 
 But President Obama, while saying that the budget he will submit to Congress in a few days will reflect the harsh realities of recession and inherited deficits, said the country and its policymakers must not shrink from spending when and where necessary.
 Other presidents have occasionally used examples from the daily lives of Americans to underscore their themes that the nation's leaders cannot always pick and choose which problems to address in what order, just as a family cannot put off a furnace repair in mid-winter even if the household budget is strained by a medical emergency. 
 Mr. Obama evoked language about the mundane problems of everyday people, referring to sleepless nights worrying over jobs and retirements that suddenly seem out of reach. ''The impact of this recession is real, and it is everywhere,'' he said.
 The times demand sacrifices on ''some worthy priorities'' by Republicans and Democrats alike, Mr. Obama said. ''But that does not mean we can afford to ignore our long-term challenges. I reject the view that says our problems will simply take care of themselves, that says government has no role in laying the foundation for our common prosperity.''
 Not only has Mr. Obama indicated his willingness to tackle several problems at once, he has also pledged to cut the yearly budget deficits in half by the end of his first term. This will be accomplished, he said, by poring over federal spending ''line by line'' to eradicate wasteful or ineffective programs in areas as diverse as the Iraq campaign and aid to American agriculture.In his rebuttal, Governor Jindal said Republicans had lost the trust of the people -- ''and rightly so'' -- by forsaking party principles of limited government, fiscal discipline and personal responsibility. But he sought to turn President Obama's recent words against him on the subject of optimism. 
 ''A few weeks ago, the president warned that our nation is facing a crisis that he said 'we may not be able to reverse,''' Mr. Jindal said. ''But don't let anyone tell you that we cannot recover -- or that America's best days are behind her.'' 
 Andrew Polsky, a Hunter College political scientist, said that despite Mr. Obama's overall popularity, he ''faces deep skepticism about his program among the American people.''
 ''They see hundreds of billions of dollars being committed to stimulate the economy and prop up the financial sector, but they fear that the programs won't work, and that they are rewarding many of the very culprits responsible for the mess,'' Mr. Polsky said.
 And before the speech, Republicans made it clear that they do not want to be pushovers for Mr. Obama's agenda.
 ''Everybody wants him to succeed, but that doesn't mean that we're going to have a debate-free environment,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican minority leader, said at a news conference in the Capitol. ''And we think we're up on the wrong foot with the rate of spending that we're engaged in by running up the bills and sending them to our grandchildren.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); JOB CREATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); EDUCATION REFORM (69%); CIVIL WAR (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1025 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: In Debate on Climate Change, Exaggeration Is a Common Pitfall

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
In the effort to shape the public's views on global climate change, hyperbole is an ever-present temptation on all sides of the debate. 
 Earlier this month, former Vice President Al Gore and the Washington Post columnist George Will made strong public statements about global warning -- from starkly divergent viewpoints.
 Mr. Gore, addressing a hall filled with scientists in Chicago, showed a slide that illustrated a sharp spike in fires, floods and other calamities around the world and warned the audience that global warming ''is creating weather-related disasters that are completely unprecedented.'' 
 Mr. Will, in a column attacking what he said were exaggerated claims about global warming's risks, chided climate scientists for predicting an ice age three decades ago and asserted that a pause in warming in recent years and the recent expansion of polar sea ice undermined visions of calamity ahead.
 Both men, experts said afterward, were guilty of inaccuracies and overstatements. 
 Mr. Gore removed the slide from his presentation after the Belgian research group that assembled the disaster data said he had misrepresented what was driving the upward trend. The group said a host of factors contributed to the trend, with climate change possibly being one of them. A spokeswoman for Mr. Gore said he planned to switch to using data on disasters compiled by insurance companies. 
 Mr. Will, peppered with complaints from scientists and environmental groups who claimed the column was riddled with errors, has yet to respond. The Post's ombudsman said Mr. Will's column had been carefully fact-checked. But the scientists whose research on ice formed the basis for Mr. Will's statements said their data showed the area of the ice shrinking, not expanding. 
 The events illustrate the fine line that advocates on all sides walk -- and sometimes cross -- in using science to bolster their arguments over what should or should not be done about global warming, the buildup of emissions of heat-trapping gases that scientists have linked to rising temperatures.
 President Obama has not been immune from the lure of hype. As president-elect, Mr. Obama, making a video appearance at a California climate conference, began by saying that the science pointing to human-caused warming was beyond dispute -- a statement backed by a strong consensus among scientists. But he went on to push the point, taking the same step as Mr. Gore onto shakier ground.
 ''We've seen record drought, spreading famine and storms that are growing stronger with each passing hurricane season,'' Mr. Obama said, linking this to global warming.
 While climate scientists foresee more intense droughts and storms, there is still uncertainty, and significant disagreement, over whether recent patterns can be attributed to global warming. 
 Social scientists who study the interface of climate science and public policy say that campaigners and officials who seek to curb emissions of heat-trapping gases face an uphill battle in changing people's minds about the issue. Even with the success of ''An Inconvenient Truth,'' the Oscar-winning 2006 documentary featuring Mr. Gore, and widely publicized images of melting Arctic ice, surveys show that most Americans are either confused about climate change, mildly concerned about it or completely disengaged from the issue. 
 A variety of surveys show that roughly 20 percent of Americans are in Mr. Gore's camp and another 20 percent in Mr. Will's, rejecting the idea that humans could dangerously alter global climate. That division is unlikely to change any time soon, said David Ropeik, a consultant on risk communication who teaches at Harvard University. 
 Once science moves from the laboratory or ice caps into fights over policy and the economy, Mr. Ropeik said, the issues are mainly framed by polarizing figures who tailor their message to people who already strongly support their views. 
 ''Gore and Will will rally their supporters and entrench their opponents, and we will be no closer to progress,'' Mr. Ropeik said. ''They are merely two leaders of their tribes waving the tribal flag.''
 In a paper being published in the March-April edition of the journal Environment, Matthew C. Nisbet, a professor of communications at American University, said Mr. Gore's approach, focusing on language of crisis and catastrophe, could actually be serving the other side in the fight. 
 ''There is little evidence to suggest that it is effective at building broad-based support for policy action,'' Dr. Nisbet said. ''Perhaps worse, his message is very easily countered by people such as Will as global-warming alarmism, shifting the focus back to their preferred emphasis on scientific uncertainty and dueling expert views.''
 But Dr. Nisbet said that for Mr. Will, there was little downside in stretching the bounds of science to sow doubt. 
 Criticism of Mr. Will's columns, Dr. Nisbet said, ''only serves to draw attention to his claims while reinforcing a larger false narrative that liberals and the mainstream press are seeking to censor rival scientific evidence and views.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former Vice President Al Gore, right, recently pulled a slide he used in a presentation on natural disasters and climate change. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); TRENDS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); WEATHER (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DROUGHT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SCIENCE POLICY (76%); EMISSIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); FAMINE (71%); INSURANCE (69%)

PERSON: AL GORE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1026 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: In Time of Crisis, Urging Bold Action and Big Ideas

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It had all the trappings of a State of the Union address but since technically it was not, President Obama did not have to utter those traditional words: ''The state of our union is strong.'' Because, frankly, it isn't.
 This was the year that pretense and pride fell by the wayside and the president reported to the nation that things have skidded wildly off course. Then over the course of nearly an hour, Mr. Obama sought to convince an angry, anxious America that a moment of crisis is actually a time for expanding aspirations, not shrinking horizons. 
 The young new president projected a voice of generational confidence to a public that by one measure is less confident than at any other time since Mr. Obama was in grade school. He invested his popularity behind a plan that he said would not only ''restart the engine of our prosperity'' but also transform the country with ''bold action and big ideas.''
 As he tried to navigate the divide between hope and realism, the vision he articulated was in some ways anything but unifying. His ideas for raising taxes on the wealthy, revamping the health care system and reversing climate change represent a philosophical agenda that strikes at the heart of the other party's core beliefs. While he said he did not believe in ''bigger government,'' he proposed a more activist government than any other since Lyndon B. Johnson.
 But Mr. Obama skated past his disagreements with Republicans to claim a broader mandate to seize ''opportunity from ordeal.'' Though he pushed through a huge economic recovery package in his first month in office, he failed to forge the partisan consensus he had sought. So his speech before a nationally televised audience on Tuesday was a chance to shift from legislative leader to national leader.
 ''As we stand at this crossroads of history,'' he said from the rostrum in the House chamber, ''the eyes of all people in all nations are once again upon us, watching to see what we do with this moment, waiting for us to lead.'' 
 Mr. Obama arrived at this moment after a burst of action -- a $787 billion stimulus package, a housing program and a bank rescue operation -- intended to stand the economy up again. And yet with relentless force, the bad economic news has kept pounding away.
 The biggest banks in the country appear to be on the edge of collapse. The markets have been plunging. Consumer confidence has fallen to record lows. No recovery is likely before 2010, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said Tuesday, even as he tried to douse fears of bank failures and nationalization.
 The White House hoped to use the Tuesday night address to reassure the nation that better times are ahead, likening the speech to Franklin D. Roosevelt's fireside chats during the Great Depression. After weeks of rather gloomy rhetoric, focused on pressuring Congress to agree to his stimulus plan, Mr. Obama struck a more optimistic, forward-leaning tone, promising that the country ''will emerge stronger than before.''
 At the same time, Mr. Obama associated himself with those exasperated with Wall Street titans and irresponsible homebuyers. He, too, is angry, he said.
 Executives padding paychecks with taxpayer money? ''Those days are over,'' he declared.
 Helping bankers who got everyone into this mess? ''I promise you, I get it,'' he said.
 But Mr. Obama also reached for the same patriotic resonance that has sustained other presidents in bad times. ''We are not quitters,'' he proclaimed.
 And, he argued, ''we cannot afford to govern out of anger or yield to the politics of the moment.''
 He tried to make the case that ''it's not about helping banks, it's about helping people.'' If banks are stabilized, he said, then credit returns and Americans can get loans to buy cars and houses. The alternative, Mr. Obama warned, is a decade of hard times.
 Another approach might have been simply to preach patience, to seek time for his initiatives to take root. Mr. Obama chose, instead, to use the urgency of the moment to push forward with an agenda first devised during better economic times. He argued that education, health care and energy were a vital part of the long-term sustainability of the economy.
 He gave his program no nifty new brand name, no ''New Deal'' or ''Great Society,'' not even the ''New Covenant'' that Bill Clinton briefly tried out and quickly abandoned, or George W. Bush's overshadowed ''Ownership Society.'' But he likened his program to those of other periods of upheaval when the nation responded with major steps, from the expansion of the rail system in the Civil War to the G.I. Bill that sent World War II veterans to college.
 To use Mr. Obama's word, that vision is an audacious one, for a difficult time. After soaking in the applause and shaking hands on the way out of the chamber on Tuesday night, Mr. Obama now must find a way to get his own credit flowing to cash in on a big investment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); BANK FAILURES (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1027 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
For Sale In Barbados
 Inland property, like this 3,500-square-foot home on the market for $2.5 million, is much less expensive than coastal property.
 nytimes.com/ greathomes 
 VIDEO: OBAMA'S ADDRESS TO CONGRESS
 Full video of President Obama's Tuesday night speech, with an interactive transcript and analysis, and additional photographs.
 nytimes.com/politics
 AUDIO: LEONARD COHEN ON THE ROAD
 Audio excerpts from Larry Rohter's interview with the singer and songwriter Leonard Cohen, who discusses life on tour and Zen and Judaism.
 nytimes.com/music
 AUDIO: BUTTERMILK CHANNEL
 In an audio slide show, Frank Bruni reviews Buttermilk Channel, a Brooklyn restaurant serving comfort food.
 nytimes.com/dining
 SLIDESHOW: RANDOM PARTS, COHERENT WHOLE
 Images of Jonathan Horowitz's pop culture-infused solo exhibition ''And/Or'' at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center.
 nytimes.com/design
 Travel Q&A Dog Sledding in New York
 Where to go dog sledding -- and take dog-sledding lessons -- near New York City, below.
 nytimes.com/travelqa
 AN ATTACK IN CAIRO HITS CLOSE TO HOME
 Jennifer Conlin recounts the experience of learning about Sunday's bomb attack on Hussein Square, just days after visiting the site with her family.
 nytimes.com/travel
 AUDIO: TODAY'S BUSINESS
 Jeff Sommer talks with Catherine Rampell about the warnings on the economy from Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
 nytimes.com/business
 Opinion
 100 Days Obama's Mentors, F.D.R. and Reagan
 The reporter Lou Cannon argues that those who give Barack Obama low grades for working with Republicans misread presidential history.
 nytimes.com/100days
 The Wild Side The Crumbling Tower
 Peer review, writes the guest columnist Stephen Quake, is the best way to deal with potential conflicts of interest in faculty research.
 nytimes.com/judson
 Question of the Day: What is the value of an education in the humanities during an economic downturn? Share your thoughts at:nytimes.com/education

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY WYATT GALLERY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); SONG WRITING (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); WRITERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BOMBINGS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (55%); RELIGION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) BARBADOS (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1028 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Murdoch Apologizes in Post For Cartoon of Chimpanzee

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Rupert Murdoch offered a rare personal apology on Tuesday for a cartoon of a chimpanzee that ran last week in The New York Post that some readers interpreted as a racist attack on President Obama. 
 ''Over the past couple of days, I have spoken to a number of people and I now better understand the hurt this cartoon caused,'' Mr. Murdoch wrote in a statement, published in The Post, that carried his byline. He added, ''It was not meant to be racist, but unfortunately, it was interpreted by many as such.''
 Mr. Murdoch, chairman of the News Corporation, which owns The Post, apologized ''to any reader who felt offended, and even insulted.''
 The cartoon by Sean Delonas, published last Wednesday, combined two high-profile recent news events: the story of a pet chimpanzee that ran amok in Connecticut and Congress's approval of a $787 billion economic stimulus bill. It depicted two police officers; one has just shot a chimpanzee while the other says, ''They'll have to find someone else to write the next stimulus bill.''
 A number of elected officials, critics of the news media and others, citing a long history of simian caricatures of black people, charged that the cartoon likened Mr. Obama, the prime mover behind the stimulus, to an ape. Others saw the cartoon as no more than Mr. Delonas's crude and confrontational take on the stimulus, not aimed specifically at the president.
 Gov. David A. Paterson stepped carefully between those positions last week, saying, ''It would be very important for The New York Post to explain what the cartoon was intended to portray.'' But some critics frankly called the cartoon racist, and The Post fielded a large number of calls from angry readers.
 In a statement released the day after the cartoon was published, Col Allan, editor of The Post, who had approved the cartoon, defended it, saying, ''it broadly mocks Washington's efforts to revive the economy.'' Mr. Allan declined to comment on Mr. Murdoch's apology.
 The Murdoch apology was similar to an editorial The Post published on Friday, but it was more conciliatory in tone. Both the editorial and Mr. Allan's statement said blame for the outrage rested partly on people seeking to settle scores with the paper, and Mr. Allan specifically mentioned the Rev. Al Sharpton, one of The Post's most vocal critics.
 News Corporation properties have apologized in the past for missteps -- including comments on Mr. Obama -- but veteran Murdoch watchers say there have been extremely few directly from the chairman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); PRIMATES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROVALS (73%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (86%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (86%); NWS (ASX) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (86%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (86%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID PATERSON (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1029 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: Obama Vows, 'We Will Rebuild' and 'Recover'

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama urged the nation on Tuesday to see the economic crisis as reason to raise its ambitions, calling for expensive new efforts to address energy, health care and education even as he warned that government bailouts have not come to an end.
 In his first address to a joint session of Congress, Mr. Obama mixed an acknowledgment of the depth of the economic problems with a Reaganesque exhortation to American resilience. He offered an expansive agenda followed by a pledge to begin paring an ever-climbing budget deficit.
 ''While our economy may be weakened and our confidence shaken, though we are living through difficult and uncertain times, tonight I want every American to know this,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We will rebuild, we will recover, and the United States of America will emerge stronger than before.'' 
 After eight years under President George W. Bush, Americans tuned in on Tuesday night to a scene that put the new Democratic cast front and center. Mr. Obama was preceded into the House chamber by his cabinet, including Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, whom he kissed as he made his way to the speaker's dais. Even several Republicans leaned in close to Mr. Obama as he walked down the aisle. 
 He set up his push for a wide-ranging overhaul of domestic policy by lamenting what he said were decades of unwillingness on the part of society and government to make tough decisions or put long-term gain ahead of short-term benefit. In the process, he took a thinly veiled swipe at his predecessor for his tax cuts and philosophy of deregulation. 
 ''That day of reckoning has arrived,'' Mr. Obama said, ''and the time to take charge of our future is here.''
 As he spoke for nearly an hour in a prime-time address, Mr. Obama compared the moment facing America to challenges the country has weathered before. He reminded Americans that Abraham Lincoln, Franklin D. Roosevelt and other presidents had found ''promise amid peril,'' which he said should serve as a guide for today. 
 His words were often stern, but laced with optimism and humor as he said neither political party was free of blame for the nation's condition. He urged Americans to believe in his ability to steer the country through its fiscal emergency, even as he presented an agenda that would be considered ambitious in more prosperous times. 
 While he did not break new ground on the policies he proposed, he framed his argument with fresh urgency. 
 A failure to confront the nation's dependence on foreign oil, deal with the rising cost of health care or find a solution to the decline of American schools contributed to the place the country finds itself in, Mr. Obama said. He renewed his call for investments in all areas, particularly finding a way to create energy resources that do not rely on foreign sources of oil.
 Mr. Obama challenged Congress to pass a bill to cap emissions of the heat-trapping gases that are warming the planet and use $15 billion a year of the revenues from the program to pay for renewable sources of energy.
 He was vague about how he intends to make health care more affordable and accessible, saying only that the budget he will release on Thursday will make a down payment on the goal of ''quality, affordable health care for every American.'' 
 ''Let there be no doubt: health care reform cannot wait, it must not wait, and it will not wait another year,'' Mr. Obama said to a cacophony of applause, largely from Democrats in the chamber.
 He pushed his agenda at a moment when polls show him in a commanding position. But he was also trying to turn the economic situation to his advantage by proposing additional domestic spending when normal fiscal constraints have given way to a need to run substantial deficits.
 Still, Mr. Obama pledged to cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term, saying his administration had ''already identified two trillion dollars in savings over the next decade.'' In an interview, an administration official said those savings reflected reduced spending on the war in Iraq and higher revenues from letting the Bush administration's tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans lapse after 2010. 
 While the president offered no specifics, he said he would eliminate education programs that did not work, end excessive payments to large agribusinesses and overhaul the military budget ''so we're not paying for cold-war-era weapons systems we don't use.'' 
 In a litany of proposals, Mr. Obama called for stricter regulatory reforms of the nation's financial institutions. He also mentioned creating tax-free universal savings accounts for all Americans, a nod to the Republican desire to create some kind of investment vehicles as they consider overhauling Social Security.
 ''My budget does not attempt to solve every problem or address every issue. It reflects the stark reality of what we've inherited -- a trillion-dollar budget deficit, a financial crisis and a costly recession,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Given these realities, everyone in this chamber, Democrats and Republicans, will have to sacrifice some worthy priorities for which there are no dollars. And that includes me.''
 Mr. Obama's speech lasted 52 minutes, compared with a 49-minute address by Mr. Bush during his first speech to Congress on Feb. 27, 2001, and a 58-minute address by President Bill Clinton on Feb. 17, 1993. 
 While it was the most high-profile presidential speech since the inauguration, Mr. Obama has already signed a $787 billion economic stimulus plan into law, held a prime-time news conference, and visited Canada and six American states to sell his economic message.
 But even though Americans have seen a lot of Mr. Obama in the first 36 days of his presidency, the speech on Tuesday gave him an opportunity to command the stage in a way he had not yet done and served as an early test of whether he would be able to persuade Republicans to support any pieces of his agenda.
 Republican leaders in the House and the Senate turned to a rising voice outside of Washington to deliver the party's response to the address. Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana said Republicans were also focused on trying to rebuild the economy, but he criticized Democrats for turning to government programs -- and spending -- to deal with the nation's challenges, calling such an approach irresponsible.
 ''Democratic leaders say their legislation will grow the economy,'' Mr. Jindal said. ''What it will do is grow the government, increase our taxes down the line and saddle future generations with debt.''
 Mr. Obama acknowledged the anger felt by many Americans over the bailouts of banks, automobile companies and homeowners who are in over their heads. But he made a case that all those steps were necessary, not to help the institutions or people receiving taxpayer money, but to avert deeper economic problems that would afflict everyone for years to come. 
 ''It's not about helping banks, it's about helping people,'' Mr. Obama said. At a moment of crisis, he added, ''we cannot afford to govern out of anger, or yield to the politics of the moment.''
 Mr. Obama sought to explain the program he announced last week to help some homeowners prevent foreclosure. He asked for understanding from Americans who have made their payments on time and who regard the bailout plan as an unfair reward to those who lived beyond their means. The president urged Americans to consider refinancing their homes, which he said could save them nearly $2,000 a year on their mortgage.
 The president waited until the last moments of his speech to address America's relations with the world,and when he did, he struck broad themes while eschewing specific policy directives. 
 Instead, Mr. Obama sought to convey a new American administration that will try to lead by example. ''The eyes of all people in all nations are once again upon us -- watching to see what we do with this moment, waiting for us to lead,'' he said.
 With Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Speaker Nancy Pelosi sitting behind him, Mr. Obama looked out across a sea of senators, representatives, Supreme Court justices and high-ranking military officials. The president called upon Mr. Biden to oversee the billions of dollars of public spending to ensure that it was invested properly.
 ''Nobody messes with Joe,'' Mr. Obama said with a smile.
 The White House, like others before it, sought to personalize the policy proposals by introducing the stories of real people into the speech and inviting 22 guests to sit in the balcony with the first lady, Michelle Obama.
 ''Those of us gathered here tonight have been called to govern in extraordinary times,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It is a tremendous burden, but also a great privilege, one that has been entrusted to few generations of Americans. For in our hands lies the ability to shape our world for good or for ill.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Addressing a joint session of Congress, President Obama issued a Reaganesque exhortation to American resilience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
President Obama delivered his first address to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night, outlining a broad and expensive agenda to address issues including energy, health care and education.
 President Obama greeting Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who returned to the bench this week after surgery for pancreatic cancer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1030 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Food Stamps in Hard Times

 BODY:
In seeking an instant jolt to the economy, almost nothing beats food stamps. Hungry people who get federal food aid don't horde it. They don't put vouchers under the mattress. They rush out and spend their share at the corner grocery or deli or bodega -- sustaining not only themselves, but also the local economy. 
 For those reasons, Mayor Michael Bloomberg's cramped food-relief policy makes little sense. The federal stimulus plan allows one big category of food stamp recipients -- able-bodied single adults without dependents -- to remain eligible to receive stamps until Sept. 30, 2010. Present law limits these recipients to three months of food stamps in a three-year period. 
 Mr. Bloomberg insists that these recipients must, in effect, work for their supper. He is under no obligation to extend benefits to anyone not enrolled in the city's workfare program, which offers some training, some internships and some low-level work.
 States and cities are allowed to require recipients to participate in such programs. But forcing people to take make-work jobs to qualify for food assistance takes valuable time away from the search for a real job. That's counterproductive. 
 Moreover, by limiting eligibility, the city also reduces the amount of money it receives from Washington -- a decrease of $750,000 a year, by the city's estimate. Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum puts the loss far higher -- in the millions of dollars over the next 17 months. 
 At a time when the mayor is supposed to be counting every dollar, $750,000 matters. And if he sticks to his job requirement, Mr. Bloomberg would have to expand his workfare program. This would also add to the city's bill.
 As Washington is bailing out banks and businesses, it is important not to lose sight of how food stamps save people. As the economy worsens, the number of hungry New Yorkers will only grow. There was a 19 percent increase in food stamp recipients in New York City in 2008 alone, according to the city's data.
 We can understand the mayor's ideal of ''work, not welfare,'' but this is not a time to be stingy with food, especially if Washington is picking up the tab.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD STAMPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1031 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: In Push to End Death Penalty, Some States Cite Cost-Cutting

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Md. 

 BODY:
When Gov. Martin O'Malley appeared before the Maryland Senate last week, he made an unconventional argument that is becoming increasingly popular in cash-strapped states: abolish the death penalty to cut costs.
 Mr. O'Malley, a Democrat and a Roman Catholic who has cited religious opposition to the death penalty in the past, is now arguing that capital cases cost three times as much as homicide cases where the death penalty is not sought. ''And we can't afford that,'' he said, ''when there are better and cheaper ways to reduce crime.''
 Lawmakers in Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska and New Hampshire have made the same argument in recent months as they push bills seeking to repeal the death penalty, and experts say such bills have a good chance of passing in Maryland, Montana and New Mexico. 
 Death penalty opponents say they still face an uphill battle, but they are pleased to have allies raising the economic argument. 
 Efforts to repeal the death penalty are part of a broader trend in which states are trying to cut the costs of being tough on crime. Virginia and at least four other states, for example, are considering releasing nonviolent offenders early to reduce costs.
 The economic realities have forced even longtime supporters of the death penalty, like Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, to rethink their positions.
 Mr. Richardson, a Democrat, has said he may sign a bill repealing capital punishment that passed the House last week and is pending in a Senate committee. He cited growing concerns about miscarriages of justice, but he added that cost was a factor in his shifting views and was ''a valid reason in this era of austerity and tight budgets.''
 Capital cases are expensive because the trials tend to take longer, they typically require more lawyers and more costly expert witnesses, and they are far more likely to lead to multiple appeals.
 In New Mexico, lawmakers who support the repeal bill have pointed out that despite the added expense, most defendants end up with life sentences anyway.
 That has been true in Maryland. A 2008 study by the Urban Institute, a nonpartisan public policy group, found that in the 20 years after the state reinstated the death penalty in 1978, prosecutors sought the death penalty in 162 felony-homicide convictions, securing it in 56 cases, most of which were overturned; the rest of the convictions led to prison sentences.
 Since 1978, five people have been executed in Maryland, and five inmates are on death row. 
 Opponents of repealing capital punishment say such measures are short-sighted and will result in more crime and greater costs to states down the road. At a time when police departments are being scaled down to save money, the role of the death penalty in deterring certain crimes is more important than ever, they say.
 ''How do you put a price tag on crimes that don't happen because threat of the death penalty deters them?'' said Scott Shellenberger, the state's attorney for Baltimore County, Md., who opposes the repeal bill.
 Kent Scheidegger, legal director of the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation, an organization in Sacramento that works on behalf of crime victims, called the anticipated savings a mirage. He added that with the death penalty, prosecutors can more easily offer life sentences in a plea bargain and thus avoid trial costs. 
 But Eric M. Freedman, a death penalty expert at Hofstra Law School, said studies had shown that plea bargaining rates were roughly the same in states that had the death penalty as in states that did not.
 ''It makes perfect sense that states are trying to spend their criminal justice budgets better,'' he said, ''and that the first place they look to do a cost-benefit analysis is the death penalty.''
 States are looking elsewhere as well.
 Last year, in an effort to cut costs, probation and parole agencies in Arizona, Kentucky, Mississippi, New Jersey and Vermont reduced or dropped prison time for thousands of offenders who violated conditions of their release. In some states, probation and parole violators account for up to two-thirds of prison admissions each year; typical violations are failing drug tests or missing meetings with parole officers.
 As prison crowding has become acute, lawsuits have followed in states like California, and politicians find themselves having to choose among politically unattractive options: spend scarce tax dollars on expanding prisons, loosen laws to stem the flow of incarcerations, or release some nonviolent offenders.
 The costs of death penalty cases can be extraordinarily high.
 The Urban Institute study of Maryland concluded that because of appeals, it cost as much as $1.9 million more for a state prosecutor to put someone on death row than it did to put a person in prison. A case that resulted in a death sentence cost $3 million, the study found, compared with less than $1.1 million for a case in which the death penalty was not sought.
 In Kansas, State Senator Carolyn McGinn introduced a bill this month that would abolish the death penalty in cases sentenced after July 1. ''We are in such a dire deficit situation, and we need to look at things outside the box to solve our budget problems,'' said Mrs. McGinn, a Republican. Kansas is facing a budget shortfall of $199 million, and Mrs. McGinn said that opting for life imprisonment without parole rather than the death penalty could save the state over $500,000 per capital case.
 But skeptics contend that prosecutors will still be on salary and will still spend the same amount, just on different cases. In Colorado, lawmakers plan to consider a bill this week that would abolish the death penalty and use the savings to create a cold-case unit to investigate the state's roughly 1,400 unsolved murders. While the police must continue investigating these cases, there is no money in the budget for that. A group of families who lost relatives in unsolved murders has lobbied lawmakers on the bill. 
 In Virginia, competing sentiments are evident in the legislature.
 While lawmakers have proposed allowing prison officials to release low-risk offenders up to 90 days before the end of their sentences, citing a potential saving of $50 million, they are also considering expanding who is eligible for capital punishment to people who assist in killings but do not commit them and to people convicted of murdering fire marshals or auxiliary police officers who are on duty. 
 It is considered unlikely, however, that Gov. Tim Kaine, a Democrat who opposes capital punishment, would sign such a bill.
 In 2007, New Jersey became the first state in a generation to abolish the death penalty. 
 That same year, a vote in Maryland to abolish the death penalty came up one vote short of passing. In December, however, a state commission on capital punishment recommended that Maryland abolish the death penalty because of the high cost and the danger of executing an innocent person. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A county jail in Lawrenceville, Va., was designed for half as many inmates as it houses. Many states are trying to cut prison costs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HELBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Gov. Martin O'Malley (pg.A18) CHART: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT'S PRICE TAG: A death penalty case in Maryland costs about three times more than a case in which the prosecutor does not seek the death penalty, according to a study by the Urban Institute. The study evaluated all 1,227 homicides that occurred in the state from 1978 to 1999 in which the defendant was eligible to receive the death sentence. (Source: ''The Cost of the Death Penalty in Maryland,'' the Urban Institute) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); CAPITAL CRIMES (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FELONIES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); TRENDS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); WITNESSES (71%); EXPERT WITNESSES (68%); POLICE FORCES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (84%)

PERSON: MARTIN O'MALLEY (90%); BILL RICHARDSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); MARYLAND USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1032 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1896 words

HEADLINE: A Message Of America, Renewal And Hope

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Obama's address to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday night, as transcribed by Federal News Service:
 I know that for many Americans watching right now, the state of our economy is a concern that rises above all others. And rightly so. If you haven't been personally affected by this recession, you probably know someone who has: a friend, a neighbor, a member of your family. 
 You don't need to hear another list of statistics to know that our economy is in crisis, because you live it every day. It's the worry you wake up with and the source of sleepless nights. It's the job you thought you'd retire from but now have lost; the business you built your dreams upon that's now hanging by a thread; the college acceptance letter your child had to put back in the envelope. 
 The impact of this recession is real, and it is everywhere. But while our economy may be weakened and our confidence shaken, though we are living through difficult and uncertain times, tonight I want every American to know this: We will rebuild, we will recover and the United States of America will emerge stronger than before. 
 The weight of this crisis will not determine the destiny of this nation. The answers to our problems don't lie beyond our reach. They exist in our laboratories and our universities; in our fields and our factories; in the imaginations of our entrepreneurs and the pride of the hardest-working people on Earth. 
 Those qualities that have made America the greatest force of progress and prosperity in human history we still possess in ample measure. What is required now is for this country to pull together, confront boldly the challenges we face, and take responsibility for our future once more.
 Roots of the Problem
 Now, if we're honest with ourselves, we'll admit that for too long we have not always met these responsibilities -- as a government or as a people. I say this not to lay blame or look backwards, but because it is only by understanding how we arrived at this moment that we'll be able to lift ourselves out of this predicament. The fact is, our economy did not fall into decline overnight. Nor did all of our problems begin when the housing market collapsed or the stock market sank. We have known for decades that our survival depends on finding new sources of energy, yet we import more oil today than ever before. The cost of health care eats up more and more of our savings each year, yet we keep delaying reform. Our children will compete for jobs in a global economy that too many of our schools do not prepare them for.
 And though all these challenges went unsolved, we still managed to spend more money and pile up more debt, both as individuals and through our government, than ever before. 
 In other words, we have lived through an era where too often, short-term gains were prized over long-term prosperity; where we failed to look beyond the next payment, the next quarter or the next election. A surplus became an excuse to transfer wealth to the wealthy instead of an opportunity to invest in our future. Regulations were gutted for the sake of a quick profit at the expense of a healthy market. People bought homes they knew they couldn't afford from banks and lenders who pushed those bad loans anyway. And all the while, critical debates and difficult decisions were put off for some other time on some other day. 
 Well, that day of reckoning has arrived, and the time to take charge of our future is here. 
 'Time to Act'
 Now is the time to act boldly and wisely, to not only revive this economy, but to build a new foundation for lasting prosperity. Now's the time to jump-start job creation, restart lending and invest in areas like energy, health care and education that will grow our economy, even as we make hard choices to bring our deficit down. That is what my economic agenda is designed to do, and that's what I'd like to talk to you about tonight. ...
 The recovery plan we passed is the first step in getting our economy back on track. But it is just the first step, because even if we manage this plan flawlessly, there will be no real recovery unless we clean up the credit crisis that has severely weakened our financial system.
 I want to speak plainly and candidly about this issue tonight, because every American should know that it directly affects you and your family's well-being. You should also know that the money you've deposited in banks across the country is safe. Your insurance is secure. You can rely on the continued operation of our financial system. 
 That's not the source of concern. The concern is that if we do not restart lending in this country, our recovery will be choked off before it even begins. 
 You see, the flow of credit is the lifeblood of our economy. The ability to get a loan is how you finance the purchase of everything from a home to a car to a college education; how stores stock their shelves, farms buy equipment and businesses make payroll. 
 But credit has stopped flowing the way it should. Too many bad loans from the housing crisis have made their way onto the books of too many banks. And with so much debt and so little confidence, these banks are now fearful of lending out any more money to households, to businesses, or even to each other. And when there's no lending, families can't afford to buy homes or cars. So businesses are forced to make layoffs, our economy suffers even more and credit dries up even further. 
 That is why this administration is moving swiftly and aggressively to break this destructive cycle, restore confidence and restart lending. ...
 'Blueprint for Our Future'
 In the next few days, I will submit a budget to Congress. So often, we have come to view these documents as simply numbers on a page or laundry lists of programs. I see this document differently. I see it as a vision for America, as a blueprint for our future.
 My budget does not attempt to solve every problem or address every issue. It reflects the stark reality of what we've inherited: a trillion-dollar deficit, a financial crisis and a costly recession. 
 Given these realities, everyone in this chamber, Democrats and Republicans, will have to sacrifice some worthy priorities for which there are no dollars. And that includes me. 
 But that does not mean we can afford to ignore our long-term challenges. 
 I reject the view that says our problems will simply take care of themselves, that says government has no role in laying the foundation for our common prosperity. For history tells a different story. History reminds us that at every moment of economic upheaval and transformation, this nation has responded with bold action and big ideas. 
 In the midst of civil war, we laid railroad tracks from one coast to another that spurred commerce and industry. From the turmoil of the Industrial Revolution came a system of public high schools that prepared our citizens for a new age. In the wake of war and depression, the G.I. Bill sent a generation to college and created the largest middle class in history. And a twilight struggle for freedom led to a nation of highways, an American on the moon and an explosion of technology that still shapes our world. 
 In each case, government didn't supplant private enterprise; it catalyzed private enterprise. It created the conditions for thousands of entrepreneurs and new businesses to adapt and to thrive. 
 We are a nation that has seen promise amid peril, and claimed opportunity from ordeal. Now we must be that nation again. That is why, even as it cuts back on the programs we don't need, the budget I submit will invest in the three areas that are absolutely critical to our economic future: energy, health care and education. ...
 Taxes and Tax Breaks
 In this budget, we will end education programs that don't work and end direct payments to large agribusinesses that don't need them. We'll eliminate the no-bid contracts that have wasted billions in Iraq, and reform our defense budget so that we're not paying for cold-war-era weapons systems we don't use. We will root out the waste, fraud and abuse in our Medicare program that doesn't make our seniors any healthier. We will restore a sense of fairness and balance to our tax code by finally ending the tax breaks for corporations that ship our jobs overseas. 
 In order to save our children from a future of debt, we will also end the tax breaks for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans.
 Now let me be clear, because I know you'll end up hearing some of the same claims that rolling back these tax breaks means a massive tax increase on the American people. If your family earns less than $250,000 a year, a quarter-million dollars a year, you will not see your taxes increased a single dime. 
 I repeat: not one single dime. Not a dime. In fact, the recovery plan provides a tax cut -- that's right, a tax cut -- for 95 percent of working families. And, by the way, these checks are on the way. 
 Now, to preserve our long-term fiscal health, we must also address the growing costs in Medicare and Social Security. Comprehensive health care reform is the best way to strengthen Medicare for years to come. And we must also begin a conversation on how to do the same for Social Security, while creating tax-free universal savings accounts for all Americans.
 Finally, because we're also suffering from a deficit of trust, I am committed to restoring a sense of honesty and accountability to our budget. That is why this budget looks ahead 10 years and accounts for spending that was left out under the old rules. And for the first time, that includes the full cost of fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. For seven years, we have been a nation at war. No longer will we hide its price. ...
 'Extraordinary Times'
 Those of us gathered here tonight have been called to govern in extraordinary times. It is a tremendous burden, but also a great privilege, one that has been entrusted to few generations of Americans. For in our hands lies the ability to shape our world for good or for ill. 
 I know that it's easy to lose sight of this truth, to become cynical and doubtful, consumed with the petty and the trivial. 
 But in my life, I have also learned that hope is found in unlikely places; that inspiration often comes not from those with the most power or celebrity, but from the dreams and aspirations of Americans who are anything but ordinary. ...
 Look, I know that we haven't agreed on every issue thus far. There are surely times in the future when we will part ways. But I also know that every American who is sitting here tonight loves this country and wants it to succeed. I know that.
 That must be the starting point for every debate we have in the coming months, and where we return after those debates are done. That is the foundation on which the American people expect us to build common ground. 
 And if we do, if we come together and lift this nation from the depths of this crisis; if we put our people back to work and restart the engine of our prosperity; if we confront without fear the challenges of our time and summon that enduring spirit of an America that does not quit, then someday years from now our children can tell their children that this was the time when we performed, in the words that are carved into this very chamber, ''something worthy to be remembered.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE WORDS THEY USED: A selection of presidents dealing with a struggling economy and some of the words they used in their first State of the Union address.* 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); CHILDREN (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1033 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Some Retailers Hang Tough Despite Weak Profits

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
For years, the nation's retailers could throw up new stores and shoppers would pour through the doors. Now, in bleaker times, the chains are having to work for the public's business, and some are doing it better than others.
 On Tuesday, some of the biggest names in American retailing reported steep profit declines. However, chains like Home Depot and Macy's beat analysts' expectations and sent their share prices higher -- largely because they are making the radical changes necessary to stay alive and grab market share. 
 Home Depot, for instance, is taking painful steps to make itself leaner, like shutting peripheral businesses including its Expo Design Centers. Frank Blake, chief executive of Home Depot, said on Tuesday: ''We have become a simpler company, which is a good thing.'' 
 But while trimming the fat, retailers must also beef up the things that matter to customers. So even though Home Depot reduced inventory levels by $1 billion, its in-stock levels are at an all-time high -- meaning that when customers come in looking for a nail gun or a roll of duct tape, they are likely to find it. 
 Along the same lines, while Home Depot is reducing costs by cutting 7,000 jobs, or 2 percent of its workers, it is not eliminating merit pay increases and bonuses for its top sales staff. This month, the University of Michigan's American Customer Satisfaction Index showed that Home Depot had the best customer service improvement of any specialty retailer. 
 ''We believe if we take care of our associates, they'll take care of our customers,'' Carol B. Tome, Home Depot's chief financial officer, said in a telephone interview. 
 For the three months ended Feb. 1, Home Depot lost $54 million, or 3 cents a share, compared with a profit of $671 million, or 40 cents a share, for the same period in fiscal 2007. 
 As bad as the loss may seem, it was better than Wall Street had expected, and it included one-time charges relating to job cuts and store closings. 
 Sales at stores open at least a year, a measure of retail health known as same-store sales, fell 13 percent, superior to the performance of many retailers in the bleak economy. The results sent shares higher by 10.5 percent on Tuesday, to close at $20.67.
 ''What we do love about Home Depot is they own 87 percent of their stores, and they have a really strong balance sheet,'' said Michael Souers, a specialty retailing analyst with Standard & Poor's Equity Research Services. 
 Like Home Depot, Macy's is also making drastic changes. For the first time in the company's history, it is consolidating its four vast divisions into a single organization. It cut its 2009 capital expenditure budget and trimmed its quarterly dividend. 
 ''While 2008 results reflect the worst economic environment of our generation, we have taken aggressive action to drive sales, maintain profitability and conserve cash,'' Macy's president and chief executive, Terry J. Lundgren, said in a conference call with investors on Tuesday. 
 Again, the cuts to the company's operations are being coupled with changes in the stores. This month Macy's said it would begin rolling out an initiative it called ''My Macy's,'' in which the merchandise in stores would be tailored to appeal to customers in a particular region of the country. 
 Same-store sales for the three months ended Jan. 31 fell 7 percent, but Mr. Lundgren said that Macy's ''outperformed most major competitors in same-store sales.''
 Jason Asaeda, a retailing analyst with Standard & Poor's, said that Macy's had benefited from selling the same well-known brands -- including Ralph Lauren, Calvin Klein and Liz Claiborne -- for years, because customers knew a good deal on those labels when they saw it. 
 ''When consumers start buying less and really seeking out value,'' said Mr. Asaeda, ''you want to go with what you're familiar with.''
 For the three months ended Jan. 31, Macy's earned $310 million, or 73 cents a share, compared with $750 million, or $1.73 a share, a year ago. The results included one-time costs for shuttering stores and consolidating its regional divisions. 
 They did not, however, include charges related to the company's 2005 acquisition of May Department Stores. Macy's is still determining what that charge will be but estimated it would write down $4.5 billion to $5.5 billion.
 Even though Macy's profit sank nearly 59 percent, shares rose 12 percent on Tuesday to close at $8.29. 
 Shares of Target, the chic discount retailer that also reported on Tuesday, fell 2 percent, but analysts mainly attributed that to its credit card business, which had a $135 million pretax loss for the three months ended Jan. 31, compared with $189 million in profit for the same period in 2007. The loss was the result of Target adding $245 million to its reserves to cover credit card losses.
 ''The biggest overhang for investors today is the credit operation,'' said Bob Drbul, a managing director at Barclays Capital Equity Research. ''If you can sort of stomach the credit card exposure, I think you're getting a good value in their shares.'' 
 Among the weak performers was Office Depot, which said Tuesday that for the three months ended Dec. 27, it had a loss of $1.54 billion, or $5.64 a share, compared with a profit of $18.8 million, or 7 cents a share, a year earlier. 
 Results were hurt by charges related to the company's strategic business review and other cost cuts. Same-store sales sank 18 percent. 
 The results sent Office Depot's shares down 13 percent on Tuesday, to $1.26. 
 ''The numbers were much weaker than we expected,'' said Mr. Souers of Standard & Poor's . ''We didn't think it was going to be good, but it turned out to be uglier than we thought.'' 
 Office Depot said it was hurt by drastically lower sales of high-priced items like computers. 
 And at a time when price matters more than ever, retailing analysts at Morningstar said that Office Depot did not have the scale or supply chain efficiencies to compete with Wal-Mart.
 Analysts at Deutsche Bank Securities said in a recent report that Office Depot's same-store sales had not been as strong as its rival, Staples.
 ''It's only going to get more challenging for them,'' Mr. Souers said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the quarterly earnings of several retailers misattributed the source of a comment by Terry J. Lundgren, chief executive of Macy's. Mr. Lundgren was quoted from a press release issued by the company; he did not make the comment in a conference call with investors. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shares of Target were under pressure as the discount retailer said it would add to its reserves for credit-card losses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROGELIO V. SOLIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Macy's is making drastic changes, consolidating its four divisions and cutting its capital expenditure budget for the year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Although Home Depot is closing some businesses, it is making an effort to keep products in stock at stores like the one above.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); SALES FORCE (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); MERIT PAY (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (68%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (67%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); MARKET SHARE (56%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%)

PERSON: FRANK BLAKE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1034 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: The Upside Of Paying More Taxes

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Toward the end of Monday's meetings on fiscal responsibility at the White House, Senator Kent Conrad stood up and produced a little bolt of honesty. ''Revenue is the thing almost nobody wants to talk about,'' said Mr. Conrad, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. ''But I think if we're going to be honest with each other, we've got to recognize that is part of a solution as well.''
 Mr. Conrad's frankness was delivered in the cryptic language of budget experts, and many people might have missed the point. So allow me to translate:
 Your taxes are going up. 
 They will probably go up in the coming decade, and the increase will be permanent. For a half-century, federal taxes have remained fairly constant relative to the size of the American economy -- equal to about 18 percent of gross domestic product. But the 18 percent era has to end soon. 
 It won't end because President Obama is some radical tax and spender, either. It will end because of a basic economic reality. 
 Americans have made it clear that they want a certain kind of government, one that can field a strong military and also maintain popular programs like Medicare. Yet we are not paying nearly enough taxes to maintain those programs. Even major changes to the health care system -- the single most important step for closing the budget gap -- will not close it entirely. Taxes must rise, too.
 This is a point on which serious Democrats and serious Republicans agree, even if they do so with euphemism. ''We are on an unsustainable path,'' says Peter Orszag, Mr. Obama's budget director. Judd Gregg, the ranking Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, has said, ''Revenues are going to have to go up.'' Douglas Holtz-Eakin and Dan Crippen, budget experts who advised the McCain campaign, have quietly acknowledged the same.
 Fortunately, the coming tax increase does not have to be economically ruinous. Despite all the scary stories you've heard, the evidence that higher taxes necessarily cripple an economy is somewhere between thin and nonexistent. 
 When over the past 60 years did the American economy grow fastest? The 1950s and 1960s, when the top marginal tax rate was a now-unthinkable 90 percent. And when over the past generation did the economy grow fastest? The late 1990s, when President Bill Clinton briefly took federal taxes to 20 percent of the G.D.P. 
 The real uncertainty is how, in the current political climate, Mr. Obama will manage to persuade people that taxes must go up. In his speech on Tuesday night, he didn't even try. But he doesn't have forever to do so. 
 Eventually, the foreign investors lending the federal government billions of dollars every week -- to make up for the current gap between taxes and spending -- will need a reason to believe that those loans will be repaid. Otherwise, they will begin demanding much higher interest rates. That could create a new financial crisis. 
 ''Something that's unsustainable, like a dysfunctional relationship, can go on longer than you expect,'' Mr. Orszag has said, ''and then end faster and messier than you think.''
 In his new book, ''The Tyranny of Dead Ideas,'' Matt Miller nicely lays out the history of American taxes. He begins the story with Adolf Wagner, a 19th-century German economist who predicted that taxes would rise as societies became wealthier. The idea became known as Wagner's Law.
 ''As people grew more affluent,'' writes Mr. Miller, a journalist and a consultant for McKinsey & Company, ''they'd want more of what only government could provide -- a strong military, public order, good schools and assorted welfare benefits, services that private citizens would have trouble arranging for on their own.'' 
 The tax increases to pay for these activities do bring a cost: they reduce people's incentive to work. But history has shown that this cost isn't enormous. Taxes rose sharply in the first half of the 20th century, starting from just a few percentage points of the G.D.P., and the country still prospered. So long as the government spends the money well, the benefits from taxes -- security, education, health -- can far outweigh the costs. 
 To be sure, the federal government is not currently spending its tax revenue very well. In particular, it's wasting billions of dollars each year on health care that doesn't make people healthier. Unless Medicare's policies are changed, this waste will lead government spending to rise to 32 percent of the G.D.P. over the next three decades, from 20 percent in recent years. 
 But an overhaul of the health care system won't be enough to bring that number down to the current level of taxes. That's the whole point of Wagner's Law. Over time, societies will spend more of their resources on services like medical care, since they can already afford basic material comforts. And these services are precisely the sort of service that fall to the government. 
 Think of it this way: A tax increase isn't so much a barrier to a society becoming richer as it is a result of a society becoming richer. 
 To the extent that Mr. Obama has talked about raising taxes, he has focused on households that make at least $250,000 a year. And their taxes will certainly need to go up. In the last three decades, as the pretax income of the top 1 percent of earners has soared, their total federal tax rate has fallen to 31 percent, from 37 percent, according to the Congressional Budget Office. 
 But the problem can't be solved just by taxing the rich. That top 1 percent pays only about one-quarter of federal taxes. Once the recession ends, taxes on the not-so-rich will need to rise, too. 
 There are many ways this could happen. Congress could pass a consumption tax, which would bring the side benefit of encouraging people to save more. Or it could raise tax rates. Or it could get rid of the various subsidies for housing, which create an incentive to overinvest in housing. (How's that working out, by the way?) 
 But none of these ideas would be nearly as painless as the niceties of tax jargon sometimes imply. In the end, the ideas aren't just about ''tax simplification'' or a ''flatter, fairer system.'' They're about raising taxes.
 So how will it happen? The best bet, I think, is a jujitsu strategy: someone will figure out how to convert weakness into strength.
 We find ourselves facing long-term budget deficits largely because we don't pay enough heed to the future. Paying less tax in 2009 is concrete. Leaving our children with a solvent government is less so. 
 But this same short-sightedness can be turned on itself. In 1981, President Ronald Reagan named Alan Greenspan to head a bipartisan commission charged with closing Social Security's deficit. At the commission's recommendation, Congress increased Social Security tax rates and raised the retirement age. The rub was that most of the changes didn't take effect until future years. The last of them still haven't taken effect. 
 Mr. Greenspan's reputation isn't what it used to be. But he was onto something here. Increasing tomorrow's taxes is much easier than increasing today's. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Not Nearly Enough: Without changes in the law, tax revenue is projected to lag well behind government spending in coming decades. The primary reason is the growth in spending on Medicare.(Source: Center on Budget and Policy Priorities) Chart details line graph for federal spending as a percentage of gross domestic product. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX INCREASES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAX LAW (69%); MEDICARE (68%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Tyranny of Dead Ideas, The (Book); Tyranny of Dead Ideas, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1035 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Selling a New Deal, but Promising It Will Be Brief

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
It was only 13 years ago that Bill Clinton declared before a joint session of Congress that ''the era of big government is over.'' President Obama's challenge on Tuesday night is to declare that, out of ugly necessity, big government is back -- and then to make a persuasive case, with a specificity he has avoided until now, that if done right, this era will not last for long. 
 His aides say this is no moment for the lofty idealism of the inaugural address, 35 long days and roughly a thousand Dow Jones points ago. His task is to be at once reassuring and realistic, or, as one of Mr. Obama's economic advisers said over the weekend, ''to convince the country we've finally pulled the ripcord on the parachute, even if we can't tell you how long we fall or where we land.'' 
 The hardest part will be convincing his countrymen that they cannot save themselves without first saving the banks that let greed blot out prudence, the carmakers who ignored competitive reality for a quarter-century, and the homeowners who somehow persuaded themselves that housing prices only move up. 
 Yet here is the paradox the president faces: The same New York Times/CBS News poll that found that Mr. Obama instills a remarkable sense of confidence -- 76 percent of Americans say they think he will make the right economic decisions -- also found that Americans dislike many of the choices he has made thus far. 
 Fifty-nine percent said that the bank bailout would help bankers far more than it would help the country. More than two-thirds had no stomach for bailing out G.M. and Chrysler, even if the alternative is liquidating the companies.
 So here is a guide to what to look for in the speech to Congress, as the new president tries to emit the reassuring warble of an F.D.R. New Dealer while convincing the country he will soon fly like a deficit hawk.
 The Banks: It Just Looks Like Nationalization
 By the time Mr. Obama speaks, taxpayers may already own 40 percent of Citigroup. As Senator Charles Grassley, Republican of Iowa, asked yesterday in a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, wouldn't that ''give the government effective control of the bank, and therefore, be a de facto nationalization of the bank?''
 Yes, of course it would. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the insurer AIG all report to the Treasury these days. The ''stress test'' on major banks starts on Wednesday, and some of them could be wheeled into the operating room, where their shares will be diluted by new government holdings in common stock, as the Treasury all but said on Monday. 
 So in Mr. Obama's speech, look for the code words that open the way to brief nationalization -- he'll steer clear of that term -- on the way to cleaning up balance sheets and putting the banks back in private hands. Also look for any signs that Mr. Obama might decide to wipe out the current shareholders' stakes -- not that those holdings are worth very much anymore -- and dump current bank managements.
 His argument will probably come down to this: We're not bailing out a bunch of clueless bankers, we're making sure that the world's biggest economy has a viable banking system.
 A Detour to Detroit
 The banks are positively popular compared with General Motors and Chrysler (which is mostly owned by a private-equity firm that says it cannot put any more of its own equity into the company). Perhaps that is because few Americans seem to believe that the companies have now seen the light, after ignoring decades of market signals. 
 On this subject, listen for the national security argument: That Americans cannot live without a vibrant industrial base that makes the country's own wheels, in America. Mr. Obama's case will be that the network of suppliers surrounding America's auto makers cannot be destroyed. Don't expect to hear much about the ''transplants,'' the subsidiaries of Japanese, German, Korean and other companies that, until the bottom fell out of the new-car market, were actually building new auto plants in the United States while the Big Three were closing old ones. Those carmakers think of themselves as American. Congress doesn't.
 The Bailout Next Door
 It was a little mystifying why the White House chose, late last week, to get into a direct shouting match with Rick Santelli, a CNBC reporter and former derivatives trader whose on-air tirade against Mr. Obama's plan to stop foreclosures went viral on the Web. ''The government is promoting bad behavior,'' Mr. Santelli said. The White House press secretary shot back that ''Mr. Santelli doesn't know what he's talking about.''
 Maybe he does, and maybe he doesn't, but he tapped into genuine anger. Mr. Obama is likely to nod to the fact that many people who pay their mortgages are rightly upset that the government is rewarding some of those who overextended themselves. But he'll argue that until the foreclosures stop, the downward cycle -- ever more houses on the market, ever lower market values -- cannot be stopped. On this point, the White House knows he has to sound more convincing than he did last week.
 About Our Good Friends, the Chinese
 Mr. Obama's audience isn't just domestic. His words will be translated into many languages, none more important than Mandarin.
 As China's leaders made clear to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in Beijing over the weekend, the Chinese leadership needs to be persuaded that America remains a safe and liquid investment. She assured him that it was, of course, but what else could she say? The White House is acutely aware that its entire plan hinges on the willingness of other nations to keep lending to the United States, and that means he must make a convincing case that he's seen the path out of deficits.
 Americans and foreigners alike have heard that before; George W. Bush spent eight years churning out projections of how he would move the United States back toward balanced budgets. The financial responsibility summit on Monday at the White House -- if you can call a four-hour meeting a ''summit'' -- was supposed to signal that Mr. Obama has a plan of his own. But he has been a little vague about how he would square the goal with everything in the offing -- or how he would address the toughest long-term problem, fixing Social Security and Medicare.
 Look for any sign that he is now willing to kick those cans down the road, maybe by creating a commission to study the problem. (There have already been several, and on Monday the chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Representative David Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin, declared that a commission would ''thrill policy wonks and not get a damned thing accomplished.'')
 But mostly, look for whether Mr. Obama puts together that elusive combination of inspiration and specificity that creates confidence. That's what's been lacking in the markets, and in the country. And until it is restored -- until Americans have as much faith in the message as in the messenger -- it's going to be hard to break the cycle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); HOME PRICES (66%); COMMON STOCK (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (61%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (61%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (61%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (61%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (61%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1036 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 25, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 539 words

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
POST TO PART WAYS
 With Liz Smith
 After Thursday, the gossip columnist Liz Smith will not have a home in a New York City tabloid for the first time in 33 years. The New York Post -- which has published her gossip column since the days when Donald was still married to Marla and Christie Brinkley was still married to Ricky Taubman -- is dropping her column, citing hard times.
 ''Like so many other newspapers around the nation, we are buffeted by unprecedented economic gales,'' Col Allan, the editor in chief of The Post, told Ms. Smith in a Feb. 9 letter that said he was not renewing the contract for her column. 
 Even for Ms. Smith, who turned 86 on Feb. 2, tabloids are so last century. She plans to concentrate on the Internet. She is a founder and a part owner of the 11-month-old Web site wowOwow.com, ''The Women on the Web,'' and said she looked forward to posting scoops there -- ''free,'' she said, ''from the constraints of newspaper deadlines.''
 Or newspaper cutbacks: last year, The Post reduced her schedule to three days a week, from six. ''I protested,'' she said. ''Didn't do any good. Mr. Allan is firmly at the helm of The New York Post, and I was never under the impression that I was his cup of tea.'' 
 Mr. Allan said in a statement released on Tuesday: ''The Post is grateful to have been able to publish Liz Smith's legendary column for so many years. We wish her the very best for the future.''
 But wait. She is Liz Smith. She has everybody's phone number. Didn't she call Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of News Corporation, which owns The Post? 
 ''Oh, yeah, I had a meeting with Rupert,'' she said. ''He said he wouldn't interfere with Col Allan. Well, isn't he right? Shouldn't publishers believe in their editors?''
 So she leaves the world of New York newspapers with what sounded like a tongue-in-cheek prediction: ''I figure that without having to pay my salary, The Post will immediately go into the black.'' She said The Post was paying her $125,000 a year.
 She said she would write her column five days a week for syndication to newspapers around the country. She will also write a twice-a-week column for Daily Variety. And she has signed on as a contributing editor of Parade magazine, which has a circulation of 33 million through more than 470 Sunday newspapers -- one of which is The New York Post.
 The women who are behind wowOwow.com are famous enough to be mentioned in a Liz Smith column. Among them are Lesley Stahl, a correspondent on the CBS News program ''60 Minutes,'' and Joni Evans, a former literary agent and book editor.
 ''The specialness of this for us is that it's Liz all the time, anytime,'' Ms. Evans said, adding that in print,''if somebody had a really great piece of news or gossip and it wasn't her day, she couldn't run it, and that would drive her insane. On the Web, information can flow through to her by the minute and we can post it by the minute.'' JAMES BARRON ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 SLIDESHOW: Challenges at Ground Zero: Many of the most impressive engineering facets of the new World Trade Center will be invisible to future visitors. But a slide show of the construction site permits a glimpse of how complex -- and imposing -- structural solutions must be. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); WRITERS (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); NEWS CORP (81%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009



1037 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE ENERGY CHALLENGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Bright Lights, Big Budget

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -- To the casual eye, the basement of this city's Firehouse 9 looks like a jumble of old hydrants, Dr Pepper cartons, rakes and random gear. To specialists in energy efficiency, the 1960s-era building is a mess of a different sort: wasteful hot water heaters for the firefighters' showers, ancient refrigerators and outdated lights.
Wrapping up an elaborate energy audit, Knoxville is about to find out which of 99 city buildings are wasting the most energy. It hopes to begin repairs this summer, just in time to catch a tsunami of federal stimulus money earmarked for such unglamorous tasks as replacing light bulbs and fixing leaky insulation.
Knoxville's timing is excellent. The city began the arduous work of cataloging deficiencies before the stimulus bill passed, and it is well along in planning its next steps. But experts worry that other beneficiaries, especially cities, are not ready to oversee the huge sums of energy-efficiency money about to come their way. 
The money in the bill is enough to pay for a tremendous expansion of efficiency efforts across the country. But as with other parts of the stimulus package, the efficiency plan is creating tension between spending the money quickly, to get rapid economic stimulus, and spending it well, to do the most good over the long run.
''There's enormous opportunity here for expansion of energy efficiency in this country,'' said Lowell Ungar, the policy director for the Alliance to Save Energy, an advocacy group. ''But there is certainly the potential for waste.''
President Obama signed the stimulus package into law on Feb. 17, hailing it as a shot of money big enough to help shake the economy from its lethargy while advancing many of his campaign priorities. Accelerating the country's energy transition is at the top of his list. Many experts in the field agree with him that carefully chosen investments in efficiency will ultimately save more than they cost, by cutting energy bills.
At least $20 billion in the stimulus bill was earmarked for programs like improving the efficiency of government buildings and the homes of poor people, and trying to find better ways to save energy. That is far more, advocates say, than any bill in history. Within a few months, the money is likely to start landing in the bank accounts of thinly staffed state and city agencies that are accustomed to scraping for a dime here, a dollar there.
Utah expects that its state energy office will receive $40 million for energy efficiency, renewable energy and related programs -- 123 times the size of the office's current budget, said Jason Berry, who manages the four-person unit. He is about to go on a hiring spree.
The package contains $5 billion to weatherize low-income homes through the Department of Energy, enough to give the state programs that manage that work 10 to 30 times the money they received last year, said Christina Kielich, a department spokeswoman.
For advocates of this relatively obscure program, ''it's like they finally got to the other side of the desert and it's pouring rain,'' said Seth Kaplan, a vice president of the Conservation Law Foundation, an environmental group.
The stimulus package also contains $4.5 billion to modernize federal buildings and $2.5 billion for research into energy efficiency and renewable energy. The biggest chunk, $6.3 billion, will be distributed by the Energy Department in grants to state and local governments, which can spend the money on things as diverse as thicker window panes for state capitols and rebates for homeowners who change their light bulbs.
Homes and commercial buildings account for 39 percent of national energy consumption. Experts say that improving their efficiency is not only cost-effective but also a good way to reduce the nation's emissions of the greenhouse gases that cause global warming.
But figuring out how to spend the money effectively -- learning which university buildings need their doors caulked, for example, or which firehouse walls have insulation that is too thin -- can involve time-consuming, tricky analysis by skilled technicians.
''People are very conservative about their buildings,'' said Donald Gilligan, the president of the National Association of Energy Service Companies, a trade group. ''Nobody wants to put a failed technology into the school buildings or have the lights not work.''
In Knoxville, a team of auditors hired by the city is spending six months peering into the grimy nooks of fire and police stations and even the convention center, where one employee referred to the downstairs boiler area as a ''money-eating room.''
Knoxville -- which says the stimulus money may help accelerate or expand its program -- hopes to reduce the city's energy bills as much as 25 percent, and the city is ''definitely on the front end of the wave as far as efficiency and municipalities addressing efficiency,'' said John Plack Jr., a director of project development for Ameresco, which is conducting the Knoxville energy audit.
In the Southeastern region of the country, where Mr. Plack works, low electricity prices have often made saving energy an afterthought, unlike in California and much of the Northeast. For example, Nashville, nearly 200 miles west of Knoxville, has not conducted an energy audit of its city buildings, though it hopes to use stimulus money to look through its own stock of fire stations and libraries.
''There's a lot of municipalities out there who are completely unaware this is moving forward,'' Mr. Kaplan said, referring especially to smaller cities. ''They just don't have the infrastructure in place to deal with this.''
The Energy Department, which is doling out most of the grants, has been assailed on Capitol Hill for delays in disbursing other types of assistance for clean energy. Ms. Kielich said in an e-mail message that the department hoped efficiency grants would begin flowing to city and state energy offices within 120 days, and that it planned to begin disbursing weatherization money ''expeditiously and responsibly.''
On the receiving end, absorbing the huge increase in money for weatherization could be particularly challenging, said Ian Bowles, the secretary of energy and environmental affairs for Massachusetts. Though he contends it can be done, ''the weatherization folks are going to have to quintuple their effort in order to put that money out,'' he said.
In some cases, the managers of efficiency programs may not need to look far to find ways to spend the money.
In Knoxville, the Community Action Committee, whose operations include helping poor people weatherize their homes, works from a building with a $14,000 monthly utility bill -- some of it because of an enormous skylight that lets in too much blistering Tennessee sunshine in the summer.
''It's embarrassing,'' said Barbara Kelly, executive director of the committee. ''We do better for our clients than we do for us.''
The Energy Challenge: Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy efficient, environmentally benign future. Additional articles in the series are at nytimes.com /energychallenge.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Employees of Ameresco inspecting Firehouse 9's use of energy as part of an audit for the city of Knoxville, Tenn. Mike Saylor, left, and John Plack Jr. check the condition of some light bulbs.
 Jusbyn Lockard works elsewhere in the firehouse. The study will help Knoxville be ready to go when federal money arrives.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN POYNTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); BUDGETS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE TO SAVE ENERGY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (92%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011



1038 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: What Mr. Whipple Didn't Say: Softer Paper Is Costly to Forests

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
Americans like their toilet tissue soft: exotic confections that are silken, thick and hot-air-fluffed.
The national obsession with soft paper has driven the growth of brands like Cottonelle Ultra, Quilted Northern Ultra and Charmin Ultra -- which in 2008 alone increased its sales by 40 percent in some markets, according to Information Resources, Inc., a marketing research firm.
But fluffiness comes at a price: millions of trees harvested in North America and in Latin American countries, including some percentage of trees from rare old-growth forests in Canada. Although toilet tissue can be made at similar cost from recycled material, it is the fiber taken from standing trees that help give it that plush feel, and most large manufacturers rely on them. 
Customers ''demand soft and comfortable,'' said James Malone, a spokesman for Georgia Pacific, the maker of Quilted Northern. ''Recycled fiber cannot do it.''
The country's soft-tissue habit -- call it the Charmin effect -- has not escaped the notice of environmentalists, who are increasingly making toilet tissue manufacturers the targets of campaigns. Greenpeace on Monday for the first time issued a national guide for American consumers that rates toilet tissue brands on their environmental soundness. With the recession pushing the price for recycled paper down and Americans showing more willingness to repurpose everything from clothing to tires, environmental groups want more people to switch to recycled toilet tissue.
''No forest of any kind should be used to make toilet paper,'' said Dr. Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist and waste expert with the Natural Resource Defense Council.
In the United States, which is the largest market worldwide for toilet paper, tissue from 100 percent recycled fibers makes up less than 2 percent of sales for at-home use among conventional and premium brands. Most manufacturers use a combination of trees to make their products. According to RISI, an independent market analysis firm in Bedford, Mass., the pulp from one eucalyptus tree, a commonly used tree, produces as many as 1,000 rolls of toilet tissue. Americans use an average of 23.6 rolls per capita a year.
Other countries are far less picky about toilet tissue. In many European nations, a rough sheet of paper is deemed sufficient. Other countries are also more willing to use toilet tissue made in part or exclusively from recycled paper.
In Europe and Latin America, products with recycled content make up about on average 20 percent of the at-home market, according to experts at the Kimberly Clark Corporation.
Environmental groups say that the percentage is even higher and that they want to nurture similar acceptance here. Through public events and guides to the recycled content of tissue brands, they are hoping that Americans will become as conscious of the environmental effects of their toilet tissue use as they are about light bulbs or other products.
Dr. Hershkowitz is pushing the high-profile groups he consults with, including Major League Baseball, to use only recycled toilet tissue. At the Academy Awards ceremony last Sunday, the gowns were designer originals but the toilet tissue at the Kodak Theater's restrooms was 100 percent recycled.
Environmentalists are focusing on tissue products for reasons besides the loss of trees. Turning a tree to paper requires more water than turning paper back into fiber, and many brands that use tree pulp use polluting chlorine-based bleach for greater whiteness. In addition, tissue made from recycled paper produces less waste tonnage -- almost equaling its weight -- that would otherwise go to a landfill.
Still, trees and tree quality remain a contentious issue. Although brands differ, 25 percent to 50 percent of the pulp used to make toilet paper in this country comes from tree farms in South America and the United States. The rest, environmental groups say, comes mostly from old, second-growth forests that serve as important absorbers of carbon dioxide, the main heat-trapping gas linked to global warming. In addition, some of the pulp comes from the last virgin North American forests, which are an irreplaceable habitat for a variety of endangered species, environmental groups say.
Greenpeace, the international conservation organization, contends that Kimberly Clark, the maker of two popular brands, Cottonelle and Scott, has gotten as much as 22 percent of its pulp from producers who cut trees in Canadian boreal forests where some trees are 200 years old.
But Dave Dickson, a spokesman for Kimberly Clark, said that only 14 percent of the wood pulp used by the company came from the boreal forest and that the company contracted only with suppliers who used ''certified sustainable forestry practices.''
Lisa Jester, a spokeswoman for Procter & Gamble, the maker of Charmin, points out that the Forest Products Association of Canada says that no more than 0.5 percent of its forest is harvested annually. Still, even the manufacturers concede that the main reason they have not switched to recycled material is that those fibers tend to be shorter than fibers from standing trees. Long fibers can be laid out and fluffed to make softer tissue.
Jerry Baker, vice president of product and technology research for Kimberly Clark, said the company was not philosophically opposed to recycled products and used them for the ''away from home'' market, which includes restaurants, offices and schools.
But people who buy toilet tissue for their homes -- even those who identify themselves as concerned about the environment -- are resistant to toilet tissue made from recycled paper.
With a global recession, however, that may be changing. In the past few months, sales of premium toilet paper have plunged 7 percent nationally, said Ali Dibadj, a senior stock analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, a financial management firm, providing an opening for makers of recycled products.
Marcal, the oldest recycled-paper maker in the country, emerged from bankruptcy under new management last year with a plan to spend $30 million on what is says will be the first national campaign to advertise a toilet tissue's environmental friendliness. Marcal's new chief executive, Tim Spring, said the company had seen intense interest in the new product from chains like Walgreens. The company will introduce the new toilet tissue in April, around Earth Day
Mr. Spring said Marcal would be able to price the new tissue below most conventional brands, in part because of the lower cost of recycled material.
''Our idea is that you don't have to spend extra money to save the Earth,'' he said. ''And people want to know what happens to the paper they recycle. This will give them closure.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rolls of toilet paper being processed at the Marcal plant in Elmwood Park, N.J. Marcal, the oldest recycled-paper maker in the country, plans a marketing campaign to promote toilet tissue made from recycled paper, like that shown at right top. Various brands of toilet paper at a supermarket near Philadelphia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUAN ARRENDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MIKE MERGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); PAPER MFG (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%)

COMPANY: GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (90%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (84%); INFORMATION RESOURCES INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (55%)

TICKER: KMB (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (90%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (90%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011



1039 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Displaying More Than the Menu

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
It is a basic, unannounced ritual, performed 52,657 times last year and enacted at 9:14 one recent morning. 
 ''I'm Inspector Williams from the department of health, and you're going to have your inspection today,'' said Corey K. Williams, holding out badge No. 3042 to Sonia Kim in the Best of the Best Deli at 11 Park Place in the financial district. 
 Soon Mr. Williams was methodically working his way through the restaurant's subterranean kitchen and storage rooms. ''My heart is racing,'' said the owner, Peter Kim.
 Mr. Kim, 62, like thousands of owners of food-service establishments, lives in fear not only of fines and their effect on his thin profit margin, but also of being shut down immediately and forced to post the dreaded yellow closing notice. 
 ''They are so strict,'' he said. ''They cost me, $2,000, $3,000, easy, each time they come.''
 In July 2010, the stakes will be even higher, with the results posted for customers to see: a blue A, a green B or a yellow C on an 8-by-10-inch inspection placard.
 The postings, a first for New York, are part of an ambitious new food-safety program announced last month by Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, commissioner of the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. The city's nearly 25,000 restaurants will be compelled to prominently display their inspection grades The announcement of the grade-posting program. The lower the grade, the more often the restaurant will be inspected.
 Under the current system, restaurants are inspected once a year, and the numerical grades -- anything above 28 is a failing mark -- are available at the department or online at www.nyc.gov/health. 
 In Los Angeles County, where the letter system has been in effect for more than a decade, 91 percent of the populace likes it, according to a 2007 study by the county's Department of Public Health. 
 New York's new program will require hiring some 50 inspectors -- adding to the current roster of 117, of whom 60 are focused on restaurants -- at a cost of nearly $5 million over two years; this comes as budgets for the department and other city agencies are being reduced. 
 Some restaurateurs tentatively endorsed the plan. ''I think the letter grading is probably a good system,'' said Bobby Flay, proprietor of Mesa Grill and Bar Americain in Manhattan. ''But if a restaurant gets a bad grade due to a paperwork technicality, the consumer will be misled.'' 
 The program has touched off opposition from the restaurant operators' trade group, however. ''We think of this as more of a gimmick than a good regulatory tool,'' said Robert Bookman, legislative counsel for the New York City chapters of the New York State Restaurant Association.
 ''A letter grade simply reflects conditions at a particular moment, and that sends the wrong message to the customer,'' he said. 
 But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who has praised Los Angeles for its practice, defended the system. ''Come on,'' he said. ''If you can't pass an inspection one time, you can't pass an inspection every time.''
 In the city last year, 9,301 restaurants failed an inspection, 1,057 were shuttered and food-service establishments paid $26.8 million in fines.
 E. Charles Hunt, executive vice president of the city chapters of the restaurant association, said he was concerned that the new plan was primarily a recession revenue-enhancer. 
 But, countered Elliott S. Marcus, an associate health commissioner, ''if we wanted to raise revenues, then we would raise the fines,'' which will remain between $200 and $2,000, depending on the severity of the infraction. 
 Some New Yorkers are looking forward to seeing the new grades, which are still 18 months away. ''You'd definitely notice the ratings,'' said John Sahlke, 44, a clerk in the Department of Justice who was approaching the salad bar at the Arome Restaurant at 325 Broadway. ''It could be an incentive to owners to clean up their act.'' 
 Tina Neal, a government accountant who had already taken her salad upstairs to the balcony, agreed. ''I would only go to A's,'' she said. 
 Dr. Jonathan E. Fielding, director of public health for Los Angeles County, said an independent study showed that its letter system had not only reduced food-borne illness outbreaks associated with restaurants, but also had lowered associated hospitalizations by 20 percent. 
 Through the years, the number of A-grade restaurants climbed to 83 percent in 2007, from 40 percent in 1998, and revenues increased in those restaurants, he said. 
 California operators have found that ''people certainly give the letter grades consideration if they are choosing a restaurant,'' said David Myers, owner of Sona and Comme Ca in Los Angeles, which has earned A ratings. 
 New York officials plan to issue letter grades on the spot after inspections, but -- in another sore point for restaurateurs -- do not plan to change the process for challenging a finding: a hearing three weeks later at the administrative tribunal at 66 John Street.
 To Mr. Bookman, of the restaurant association, ''That is a violation of any standard of due process.'' 
 The department acknowledges the issue but does not ''see a way to have an instant adjudication,'' said Mr. Marcus, the associate health commissioner. But any letter-rating upgrades will be supplied in an ''expeditious time frame,'' the department said. Mr. Bookman also expressed concern that the new inspection system would be ''an open invitation for bribery and corruption,'' he said. ''It's one thing to post inspection results on a Web site, but another to post it in the window.'' 
 But Dr. Fielding in Los Angeles said that ''in the last decade we've had only one case of attempted bribery, and the inspector wound up in jail.'' 
 In New York -- where nearly 40 inspectors were convicted in a 1988 bribery scandal -- Mr. Marcus said corruption has been rare in recent years, thanks to controls. Among them: inspectors' assignments are rotated so they do not make repeated visits to restaurants, and supervisors monitor some inspections. 
 On a legal point, the Restaurant Association also contends that the rating plan is a regulatory issue that requires City Council approval, though the department holds that it is a public-health issue requiring only a posting in The City Record and a public hearing.
 Back in Best of the Best Deli, Mr. Williams, 27, was navigating the slippery tile kitchen floor. At 6-foot-4 and 210 pounds, he may have been imposing -- ''Nobody is glad to see us,'' he said -- but he was unfailingly soft-spoken, almost professorial, as he attempted to educate the kitchen workers about proper food-safety techniques. 
 ''You name it, and I've seen it,'' Mr. Williams said. ''I've even seen managers panic and try to take moldy food out the back door while I'm watching.'' Happily, he said, he has seen more dead rats than live ones -- both provoke the same fine, however. 
 In the end, the inspection took an hour and a quarter. Mr. Williams sat in the dining room, entering 15 points of data in his 8-inch-wide Fujitsu notebook computer. Then he printed out the inspection report on a portable printer and handed it to Mrs. Kim, 53, the manager. 
 The restaurant had passed with a score of 21, the equivalent of a B grade under the new system, and a court appearance was scheduled. 
 Mrs. Kim, who had gotten up at 3:30 a.m. in Fort Lee, N.J., so she could supervise baking in the restaurant at 5 a.m., smiled with relief. She signed the interactive computer screen to acknowledge the citations. The inspection was done.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Corey K. Williams, a city health inspector, at the Arome Deli on Broadway. Starting in 2010, the city will give letter grades rather than number grades.
Mr. Williams inspecting the Best of the Best Deli on Park Place, which received what would be a B under the new system. ''You name it, and I've seen it,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Williams in the kitchen of the Arome Deli. In the city last year, 9,301 restaurants failed an inspection, and 1,057 were closed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (75%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); RANKINGS (71%)

PERSON: BOBBY FLAY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1040 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales and Prices Continue to Plummet

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned homes fell 5.3 percent in January from December, an industry group reported Wednesday.
 The National Association of Realtors reported that existing-home sales, fell to an annual rate of 4.49 million in January, the slowest rate in more than a decade. Sales were down 8.6 percent from January 2008. 
 The median home price fell to $170,300, its lowest point since March 2003. The median price in January was down 26 percent from its peak of $230,100 in July 2006.
 On Tuesday, a closely watched gauge of housing prices reported that single-family home prices fell 18.5 percent in December from a year earlier, the fastest rate on record, and economists said that housing would probably continue to sink as buyers wait for the economy to improve.
 Chris York and Rebecca O'Connell are two such buyers. For the last year, they have been looking to move from Mr. York's one-bedroom condominium to a three-bedroom home in northeastern Massachusetts or southern New Hampshire where they could start a family.
 The couple say they intend to spend $350,000 to $400,000 but that many homes in the area still seem overvalued. They have made two bids -- one for $25,000 below the asking price, and another for $60,000 below the asking price -- but have not been able to work out a deal.
 ''We continue to go into houses and think, 'Yeah, maybe we'll buy this house if it drops another 30 grand,' '' said Ms. O'Connell, 32, who works for a marketing services company.
 But with no pressing need to move, they can afford to hold out for a better deal.
 ''We can sit around and wait,'' said Mr. York, 33, a civil engineer. ''We'd like to buy a house tomorrow, but we know we can wait and find the perfect house.''
 Their broker, Richard Rosa, said many other would-be buyers were circling the real estate market, tempted by falling prices in Massachusetts towns like Chelmsford or Billerica but hesitating because they expect that if they wait three months, they could get an even better deal. 
 He said sales were slowest in more affluent communities, where housing values have held up, but have picked up in towns where values have fallen the farthest.
 Home sales in January were up in the more distressed corners of Southern California and the San Francisco Bay area, according to the property research firm DataQuick. Home values in the Los Angeles and San Francisco metro areas are down some 40 percent from their peaks.
 The National Association of Realtors estimated that foreclosures or distressed sales -- among the cheapest homes available -- made up 45 percent of sales in January. The Obama administration has laid out a $275 billion plan to help as many as nine million families refinance their mortgages or avoid foreclosure using a variety of incentives and government subsidies to reduce interest rates and principal amounts. 
 In January, home sales were flat in the West. They dropped 5.7 percent in the Midwest and the South, and fell 14.7 percent in the Northeast.
 The inventory of unsold homes fell to 3.6 million nationwide from more than 4.5 million last summer. At the current rate of sales, it would take 9.6 months to exhaust the excess supply of homes. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Feb. 26 with an article about the slow pace of home sales erroneously included information about a drop in value for the home shown for sale in the Pacific Heights area of San Francisco. It is not known whether the value of the home, relative to its peak value, has dropped 40 percent. The caption also overstated the overall decline in value for homes in Pacific Heights. The homes have dropped 21 percent from their peak -- not 40 percent, which, as the article noted, is the drop in value for all homes in the San Francisco metropolitan area.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Homes like this one in the Pacific Heights area of San Francisco have declined in value by about 40 percent from their peaks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) CHARTS: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing singlefamily homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
 Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted.(Source: National Association of Realtors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); EXISTING HOME SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); FAMILY (75%); FORECLOSURE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1041 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Lives, Interrupted: The New Austerity

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
PETER PIA'S business mirrors the turmoil that has beset the economy. He does not work on Wall Street, nor is he advising those who have been laid off. He runs a frame shop, Labriola Frame and Art Gallery in Stamford, Conn., and has seen firsthand how customers' expectations about their financial futures have been radically altered.
 When the stock market fell in the fall, Mr. Pia and the gallery's principal owner, Sandy Labriola, noticed that their business had dropped with it. (Many who live in this very affluent area about 30 miles north of New York City work in financial services.) So they laid off their four employees at Thanksgiving and prepared for the worst. Instead, in the last weeks of the year, typically a slow time, business boomed. 
 Why? Clients were adjusting to less.
 ''People were taking items and creating personal gifts to keep expenses down -- framing children's pictures, photographs, artwork from school,'' Mr. Pia said.
 He added that business was still brisk, which he attributed to customers' forgoing major home renovations and choosing to spruce up what they have. 
 Still, Mr. Pia said he was concerned about how business would play out over the rest of the year. ''We can't look at past figures,'' he said. ''That's out the window. There's no previous years' comparisons.''
 Listen closely enough and Mr. Pia sounds like a financial adviser. That may be because in the last six months people who would normally not be so worried about finances are focused on their individual bottom lines. Even with a steady income, he has started bringing his lunch to work and cut out his daily trips to Starbucks.
 ''People have a totally different frame of mind,'' said Mary Deatherage, a managing director at Smith Barney in Little Falls, N.J. ''We need a chance to breathe.''
 Some clients Ms. Deatherage has worked with for two decades are completely rethinking the way they want to invest, from how much risk they can stomach to their long-term goals, she said. The ones in the greatest state of shock are those who have just retired or who have children going off to college. 
 ''Now, before we talk about their portfolios, we say, How are you feeling?'' she said. ''Are you really afraid this is going to zero? You'd be surprised how many think that.''
 Clients like hers, not to mention picture framers, have plenty of company in their soul-searching. Financial advisers themselves are wondering about the viability of their careers. While some big brokerage firms are using consolidation to attract top advisers, others are cutting loose their lower performers. In yet other cases, advisers are wondering if they are still in the right career. 
 Tim Hill, the national sales director for Principal Funds, a mutual fund wholesaler, said his sales representatives had been reporting an increase in the number of advisers considering new occupations. Those who are not, he said, were less likely to ask for information on new products and more apt to ask for help in understanding how to talk to their clients about enormous losses. Coaching an adviser on how to talk to disgruntled clients is not easy, but it may be easier than selling them a mutual fund.
 Principal's flagship products, Strategic Asset Management Portfolios, were down 18 to 40 percent for 2008, their five-year averages down to negative 3.71 per year from positive 0.39.
 The key now is to manage expectations. It was only a year ago that a 7 percent return was average. Now, with the Standard & Poor's Index down more than 38 percent in 2008, a portfolio that posted a single-digit return would be cause for celebration. 
 One way to manage expectations is to trust that the economy will rebound, and with it, jobs, portfolios and housing values. 
 ''The only thing I know is we will have a recovery,'' said Rick Kahler, founder of the Kahler Financial Group in Rapid City, S.D., and an author of ''The Financial Wisdom of Ebenezer Scrooge: 5 Principles to Transform Your Relationship With Money.'' 
 Mr. Kahler said it was important to acknowledge just how bad the market is. ''I hang out with them in the pain,'' he said. ''About the worst thing I could do is say, You still have 75 percent left.''
 The decline can also be used as an opportunity to change financial behavior. Some people lived beyond their means, while others lived to their limits, figuring the bull market would never end. Both groups have to face the choices they made.
 ''This great recession is a time for an epiphany and to change,'' said Mark Stevens, author of ''Rich Is a Religion: Breaking the Timeless Code to Wealth.'' ''If you only have three months of savings and no job, there is nothing you can do. You have to look forward.'' 
 For him, the crucial question is how people will live when times improve. Will they return to their spendthrift ways or live below their means?
 Mr. Stevens said he believed the likely result was embedded in human nature. ''The Dow will hit bottom, and then it will start going up again,'' he said. ''Once it does, people will take a sigh of relief.'' At that point, he said, the economy might be better, but the personal boom-and-bust cycle would be starting over.
 Both the wait-and-see and puritanical philosophies are luxuries for many. Some need to take emergency financial steps now. They are stuck in the personal equivalent of a liquidity crunch: they have assets, but their cash is limited. 
 Joseph Montanaro, a financial planner at USAA, an insurer based in San Antonio, has suggested to clients who are running out of options that they refinance 15-year mortgages and take out 30-year ones. This frees cash for more immediate needs, like sending a child to college in the fall.
 Mr. Montanaro admits this is not ideal -- cash-out refinancings did, after all, contribute to the mortgage market's collapse. But he says he considers the current financial disruption a life event on a par with getting married or having children. It is so significant that people need to re-evaluate everything they are doing. 
 ''One of my messages is: there are a lot of things you can do, but you can't take the right steps unless you evaluate where you stand.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LESS IS MORE: Peter Pia helping Ann Ramsey at Labriola Frame and Art Gallery in Stamford, Conn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); PICTURE FRAME SHOPS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); CHILDREN (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FUTURES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); THANKSGIVING (54%); BUILDING RENOVATION (52%)

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1042 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Nickels to Clean New York

 BODY:
Only rarely does one solution solve a lot of problems. One that does -- or at least could -- is New York's Bigger Better Bottle Bill. Potentially one of the most productive items on Albany's legislative menu, the bill would expand the list of cans and bottles that could be redeemed for a nickel. It would include bottles used for noncarbonated and nonalcoholic beverages, such as water, sports drinks and juice. 
 The bill would reduce litter in rivers and on highways, encourage recycling, save on natural resources and help replenish environmental programs whose budgets have been cut during the economic downturn.
 Right now, a consumer can redeem beer cans and soda bottles for the original nickel deposit. By enlarging the list to include the increasing number of drinks that don't have bubbles, the Bigger Better Bottle Bill would add as many as five billion more cans and bottles to the nine billion that now carry the nickel deposit.
 That adds up to a lot of money, but here's the real bonus. It's what the bill says about the so-called missing nickels. Right now, when consumers pay a nickel per bottle upfront and then fail to redeem that bottle, the forgone nickel goes to the beverage industry. The stores obviously deserve a reasonable handling fee, but the beverage companies, which have powerful friends in Albany, deserve less than the windfall they are getting now.
 The latest bill would reroute a large chunk of this money to the state's Environmental Protection Fund -- which, among other things, helps purchase open space. Gov. David Paterson estimates that the missing nickels could bring in $118 million a year for the environment; the Container Recycling Institute, which studies such matters, says that revenue could reach $218 million.
 There is a balance to this deal. Those who can afford the extra nickel per drink and don't redeem the bottles help pay to maintain a cleaner state. Those who can't afford the 5 cents and need to redeem their containers not only get their nickel back but assure that the cans and bottles get recycled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); SOFT DRINKS (77%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (76%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); SPORTS DRINKS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1043 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: As the Demand for Help Grows, Operators Heed the Calls

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
The syncopated rhythm of recession plays on repeat in a downtown Miami office building, on high-tech headsets in a room with only one window, among the voices of those seeking help. 
 Marie Cothias, 27, has been a state operator here since April 2007, helping Floridians with public assistance. Her calming voice and patience have made her an office favorite and, like many of her colleagues, she said she started hearing from more callers -- with new fears -- sometime last year. 
 ''A lot of people were losing their jobs,'' Ms. Cothias said. ''A lot of people were saying, 'We don't have any food for our children.' '' 
 Now this call center and two others like it in Florida are overwhelmed, as are similar centers around the country. Every day, 250 operators in Florida receive up to 150,000 calls, roughly a 40 percent increase over last year. 
 George H. Sheldon, secretary of the Florida Department of Children and Families, which runs the centers, has said he needs 288 more operators to meet the surging demand for help, especially with food stamps. 
 And the volume of calls reflects only part of the need. The telephone help line here does not handle inquiries about unemployment benefits, which are managed by another agency (also overwhelmed), and because most Floridians now apply for public assistance online, the calls here are typically follow-up questions. 
 Ms. Cothias's callers on a recent morning were mainly trying to make sure they would be getting their benefits. All 15 callers were women, and all agreed to let a reporter listen in as long as their names were not used. At least nine were young mothers. Three were 50 or older, and several were dealing with public assistance for the first time. 
 Their tones varied greatly. 
 Caller 13, who was in her 20s and from Stuart, sounded relieved when Ms. Cothias told her that there were no restrictions on what kind of food she could buy with her newly issued food stamps. 
 Caller 4, from St. Petersburg, sounded more frantic. With a raspy voice echoing through what sounded like an empty house, she said she had lost her job in the service industry and needed her food stamp application approved quickly. 
 ''I'm freaking out,'' she said. ''I have no income, and I'm starving.''
 Even after being assured by Ms. Cothias that her food stamp account should be open within days, the woman could not be calmed. ''Is there any other help you can offer for someone who's been looking really, really, really hard for a job?'' she said. ''I'm 50 years old, and all they want are young girls. Do I drop off the face of the earth? Do I die? What do I do?''
 Ms. Cothias tried to quiet her with a referral to a job training center. Later, she said she felt most sympathetic for such callers, those who are middle-aged or older, with diminishing job prospects. Indeed, she seemed to type a little faster when she heard from Caller 3, who needed more help caring for her elderly mother in Naples. 
 ''I'm going to have to start charging her rent because they cut my hours at work,'' the woman said. Her mother receives $808 a month in Social Security, and Caller 3 planned to charge her $550 a month in rent and utilities. After Ms. Cothias punched in the mother's new rent expenses, her food stamp benefit increased to $101 a month, from $14. 
 ''It's not a lot, but it helps,'' Ms. Cothias said. 
 She was a bit more businesslike with the chronic poor who have grown accustomed to public aid. It took less than five minutes for Ms. Cothias to finish with Caller 12 from Orlando, who cavalierly sought to add her new baby to her welfare case.
 And then there were the calls that seemed to confound Ms. Cothias's guidelines of sympathy. Should the safety net catch someone like Caller 14, or let her go? The woman started upbeat. ''Give me good news, girl,'' she said. ''Give me good news.'' 
 She was 37, had at least two children with different fathers, and lost her job at a marketing firm last year. She had applied for Medicaid for her family, among other benefits, and seemed eligible and in need. 
 ''My kids are getting sick and staying home from school,'' she said. 
 But her application hit a snag when Ms. Cothias discovered that the woman had not been added to the rolls because she failed to list a $1,469 child-support payment and had not turned in a statement from her former employer verifying that she had been let go. 
 The caller offered a flurry of explanations that left unclear whether she had made an honest mistake or had tried to manipulate the system to maximize her benefits. Ultimately, it did not matter. She had applied more than 60 days ago; her case had expired, and she had to start over. 
 The news nearly crushed her. She quietly began to sob. ''I'm trying so hard,'' she said. ''I'm trying so hard.''
 A young boy could be heard in the background. ''Honey,'' she said, ''Mommy is on the phone.''
 And then the call was cut off, apparently by accident. 
 Ms. Cothias shrugged. It was noon. On a wall near her cubicle, a flat-screen monitor showed that 3,725 calls had been received since 9 a.m.; 389 had been ''abandoned,'' and 120 people were waiting for 126 operators to pick up. 
 The green light on Ms. Cothias's phone lighted up -- another call for help. She answered. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Call centers for the Florida Department of Children and Families have been overwhelmed recently. Monitors show current information, like the average wait time.
 With 250 operators handling up to 150,000 calls a day, Florida's top welfare official says 288 more operators are needed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANCIS MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); FAMILY (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); DISMISSALS (75%); STARVATION (74%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (73%); CALL CENTERS (72%); APPROVALS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1044 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Broadband Expansion Is Popular in Stimulus Plans

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The broadband race is on.
 As policy makers haggle over how to revive ailing economies, one strategy has found widespread support in places as varied as Washington, Berlin, Sydney and Seoul: investing in high-speed Internet access.
 In recent weeks, Britain, Canada, Finland, Germany, Portugal, Spain and the United States have included measures to expand broadband access and to bolster connection speeds in their stimulus packages. 
 Other countries, including Australia, France, Hungary, Ireland, Japan and South Korea, have announced separate broadband plans, according to a compilation by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, based in Paris. 
 While some plans have been in the works for a while, analysts say it is no coincidence that so many are being rushed out now. 
 ''The crisis is making countries push forward with their digital agendas much more aggressively,'' said Charlie Davies, a senior analyst at Ovum, a telecommunications consultancy. ''There's this competition internationally to want to be there at the top and say, 'We're the most digitally advanced country, a great place to do business and all that.' ''
 Most plans seek to expand connections to rural areas. Another common goal is to speed up existing links through incentives to build faster fixed-line and wireless telecommunications networks. 
 The plans highlight a range of economic benefits, from the small scale and specific to the sweeping.
 Ireland, for example, said in January that its ''national broadband scheme'' would directly create 170 jobs. Germany said last week, as the cabinet approved its broadband strategy, that efficient connections and the construction of next-generation networks were ''a prerequisite for a return to growth and increased prosperity.'' 
 While analysts agree that investing in communications technologies makes economies more competitive, they are skeptical about whether the promised gains will materialize quickly enough to make the spending packages -- ranging from 11 million euros, or $14 million, in Hungary to $7 billion in the United States -- effective recession-busters. Allocating money so that cables can be laid could take many months; completion of the networks might take years.
 ''So there would only really be a sizable stimulus if we are in a very long recession,'' said Ian Fogg, an analyst at Forrester Research.
 The international scramble to improve broadband connections has accelerated since the election of Barack Obama, who made information technology a campaign issue.
 With household broadband use of about 60 percent, the United States -- along with most other countries -- is playing catch-up with South Korea. Eighty-five percent of the South Korean population has a fixed-line broadband connection, according to Ovum, and many other people have high-speed Web access through their cellphones.
 Universal coverage is a common goal of many of the broadband plans -- by the end of this year in France, by the end of next year in Germany and by 2012 in Britain, for example. 
 Some analysts say the economic case for such expansions may be limited. In the United States and many Western European countries, broadband already has the potential for reaching more than 90 percent of the population. Reaching the last remote areas could require significant investments, with no guarantee that the people who live there will even want to pay for connections.
 Governments might be able to increase broadband penetration more substantially by simply changing some regulations. In South Korea and many European countries, for example, owners of telecommunications networks are required to provide rival broadband providers access to their networks. That requirement does not exist in the United States, a move that has limited competition.
 Analysts say that economies might also benefit more from speeding up broadband links in areas that are already served, rather than making connections available everywhere. To do this would require investment in a new generation of fixed and mobile networks capable of downloading an entire movie in a matter of minutes, for example.
 Governments have generally been reluctant to provide financial incentives for the construction of these networks, in part because of regulatory objections. But policy makers are looking at other measures aimed at persuading telecommunications companies to build them.
 France, for example, has promised to give mobile providers a portion of the radio spectrum freed by switching off analog television signals for a new generation of faster wireless connections.
 But some telecommunications companies have balked at investing the billions of dollars required for the faster connections until regulators tell them how they will be allowed to run the networks. 
 Others are reluctant to commit to extending fiber optic links, which provide ultrafast fixed connections, for fear of how they might be used.
 ''Today, fiber serves no purpose,'' Philippe Capron, chief financial officer of Vivendi, told a French business paper, La Tribune. ''There is no new revenue stream and no supplemental service to offset the considerable investment. All that it does is to encourage the illegal downloading of films.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (92%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (92%); HUNGARY (91%); FRANCE (90%); AUSTRALIA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); PORTUGAL (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1045 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 507 words

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
FLIGHT DELAYS COST
 $2.6 Billion in '08
 Flight delays caused by air traffic congestion at the city's three major airports cost the regional economy more than $2.6 billion last year, according to an analysis issued by the Partnership for New York City a business-oriented group made up of 200 chief executives. 
 Last year's losses from congestion break down to $676 million in costs for business travelers, $993 million for leisure travelers, $835 million in fuel and staff costs to the airlines and $136 million to shipping companies. 
 The estimate is much higher than previous figures -- including a $200 million cost estimate for passengers issued by the New York City comptroller's office in 2007 -- because it takes into account the airlines' move to lengthen flight times in an attempt to reduce delay statistics, said Kathryn S. Wylde, the chief executive of the Partnership for New York City. 
 New York City accounts for one-third of all delays nationwide, through Kennedy, Newark Liberty and La Guardia Airports. 
 Only two-thirds of the airplanes using the city's major airports took off on time in 2007, and only 60 percent arrived on time.
 JENNIFER 8. LEE 
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week on the blog, Christopher O. Ward, the executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, is answering selected readers' questions. Here's an excerpt.
 Q. Rather than continuing to increase the tax on our region's commuters with toll and fare hikes, what measures are you taking to reduce costs? Joe E.
 A. We've all been hit hard by the current economic crisis, and, like all Americans, we're tightening our belts. We've cut almost 400 full-time positions since 2004, held the operating budget relatively flat for the past three years, and proposed a zero-growth operating budget for the current year.
 By showing fiscal discipline on the operating side, we're able to invest a record $3.3 billion in the region's infrastructure in 2009 -- money that's needed to repair and replace aging infrastructure, and provide much-needed economic stimulus. And we're doing all of this without a toll and fare increase in 2009. 
 Q. Do you have plans to improve bus service through the Lincoln Tunnel, and across the Hudson River in general? Ann
 A. We've spent considerable time exploring ways to make the tunnel, which was built more than half a century ago, more efficient. Our formula is simple: the most cost-effective way to decrease traffic in the tunnel is to bring the people who commute through the tunnel every day through the tunnel in fewer vehicles. That means mass transit. 
 One way to achieve that is to make the bus commute through the tunnel faster so it is a more attractive alternative than driving yourself. Currently, the tunnel handles approximately 2,800 buses during the 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. time period, and about 1,800 of these buses use our Express Bus Lane, which gives the mass-transit buses a faster route.
 With the existing Express Bus Lane now at capacity, we are looking into options for a second one. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON / THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (86%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MARINE SHIPPING (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (74%); AIR FARES (74%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1046 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: You've Sold Your Stocks. Now What?

BYLINE: By ROY FURCHGOTT

 BODY:
BACK in the summer of 2007, Ben Mickus, a New York architect, had a bad feeling. He and his wife, Taryn, had invested in the stock market and had done well, but now that they had reached their goal of about $200,000 for a down payment on a house, Mr. Mickus was unsettled. ''Things had been very erratic, and there had been a lot of press about the market becoming more chaotic,'' he said.
 In October of that year they sat down for a serious talk. Ms. Mickus had once lost a lot of money in the tech bubble, and the prospect of losing their down payment made Mr. Mickus nervous. ''I wanted to pull everything out then; Taryn wanted to keep it all in,'' he said. They compromised, cashing in 60 percent of their stocks that fall -- just before the Dow began its slide. 
 A couple of months later, with the market still falling, Ms. Mickus was convinced that her husband was right, and they sold the remainder of their stocks. Their down payment was almost completely preserved. Ms. Mickus said that in private they had ''been feeling pretty smug about it.'' 
 ''Now our quandary is, what do we do going forward?'' Ms. Mickus said. 
 Having $200,000 in cash is a problem many people would like to have. But there is yet another worry: it's no use taking money out of the market at the right time unless it is put back in at the right time. So to get the most from their move, the Mickuses will have to be right twice.
 ''Market timing requires two smart moves,'' said Bruce R. Barton, a financial planner in San Jose, Calif. ''Getting out ahead of a drop. And getting back in before the recovery.''
 It's a challenge many investors face, judging from the amount of cash on the sidelines. According to Fidelity Investments, in September 2007 money market accounts made up 15 percent of stock market capitalization in the United States. By December 2008, it was 40 percent. 
 ''In 2008 people took money out of equities and took money out of bond funds,'' said Steven Kaplan, a professor at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago. 
 He cited figures showing that in 2007 investors put $93 billion into equity funds. By contrast, in 2008 they took out $230 billion.
 Michael Roden, a consultant to the Department of Defense from the Leesburg, Va., area, joined the ranks of the cash rich after a sense of deja vu washed over him in August 2007, as the markets continued their steep climb. ''I had taken quite a bath when the tech bubble burst,'' he said. ''I would never let that happen again.'' 
 With his 2002 drubbing in mind, he started with some profit taking in the summer of 2007, but as the market turned he kept liquidating his investments in an orderly retreat. But he was not quite fast enough. 
 ''When Bear Stearns went under I realized something was seriously wrong,'' he said. The market was still in the 12,000 range at that time. When the Federal Reserve announced it would back Bear Stearns in March 2008, there was a brief market rebound. ''I used that rally to get everything else out,'' he said.
 Mr. Roden said he had taken a 6 percent loss by not liquidating sooner, which still put him ahead of the current total market loss. Now he has about $130,000, with about 10 percent in gold mutual funds, 25 percent in foreign cash funds and the rest in a money market account. 
 ''I am looking for parts of the economy where business is not impaired by the credit crunch or changes in consumer behavior,'' he said. He is cautiously watching the energy markets, he said, but his chief strategy is ''just trying not to lose money.''
 As chief financial officer of Dewberry Capital in Atlanta, a real estate firm managing two million square feet of offices, stores and apartments, Steve Cesinger witnessed the financial collapse up close. Yet it was just a gut feeling that led him to cash out not only 95 percent of his personal equities, but also those of his firm in April 2007.
 ''I spent a lot of time trying to figure out what was happening in the financial industry, and I came to the conclusion that people weren't fessing up,'' he said. ''In fact, they were going the other way.''
 Now, he said, ''We have cash on our statement, and it's hard to know what to do with it.''
 Having suffered through a real estate market crash in Los Angeles in the early 1990s, Mr. Cesinger is cautious to the point of re-examining the banks where he deposits his cash. ''Basically, I'm making sure it's somewhere it won't disappear,'' he said.
 The F.D.I.C. assurance doesn't give him ''a lot of warm and fuzzy,'' Mr. Cesinger said. ''My recollection is, if the institution goes down, it can take you a while to get your money out. It doesn't help to know you'll get it one day if you have to pay your mortgage today.''
 His plan is to re-enter the market when it looks safe. Very safe. ''I would rather miss the brief rally, be late to the party and be happy with not a 30 percent return, but a bankable 10 percent return,'' he said.
 Not everyone is satisfied just to stem losses. John Branch, a business consultant in Los Angeles, said his accounts were up 100 percent from short-selling -- essentially betting against recovery. ''The real killer was, I missed the last leg down on this thing,'' Mr. Branch said. ''If I hadn't missed it, I would be up 240 percent.''
 Mr. Branch said he had seen signs of a bubble in the summer of 2007 and liquidated his stocks, leaving him with cash well into six figures. Then he waited for his chance to begin shorting. The Dow was overvalued, he said, and ripe for a fall.
 Shorting is a risky strategy, which Mr. Branch readily admits. He said he had tried to limit risk by trading rather than investing. He rises at 4:30 a.m., puts his money in the market and sets up his electronic trading so a stock will automatically sell if it falls by one-half of 1 percent. ''If it turns against me, I am out quickly,'' he said. By 8, he is off to his regular job.
 Because Mr. Branch switches his trades daily based on which stocks are changing the fastest, he cannot say in advance where he will put his money.
 And if he did know, he'd rather not tell. ''I hate giving people financial advice,'' he said. ''If they make money they might say thank you; if they miss the next run-up, they hate you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ALL IN THE TIMING: Taryn and Ben Mickus of Brooklyn preserved their home down payment by leaving the market before it crashed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); BOND FUNDS (73%); BONDS (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (68%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%)

COMPANY: FMR CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (53%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1047 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. ROUNDUP; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 222 words

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
GOODELL TAKES PAY CUT Commissioner Roger Goodell is taking a pay cut and the league staff has been trimmed by 15 percent because of the reeling economy, the N.F.L. confirmed Wednesday. 
 The league said that its staff cut, announced more than two months ago, has resulted in a reduction of 169 jobs through buyouts, layoffs and other staff reductions. That amounts to just over 15 percent of the league's work force of 1,100.
 Goodell voluntarily took a cut from the $11 million salary and bonuses he was to receive this past year. He and other league executives are freezing their salaries for 2009. (AP)
 BUCS RELEASE BROOKS The 11-time Pro Bowl linebacker Derrick Brooks was released by the Buccaneers on Wednesday, part of a purge of veterans to help Tampa Bay get ready for free agency.
 Cut along with Brooks were running back Warrick Dunn, wide receivers Joey Galloway and Ike Hilliard and linebacker Cato June. All but June, who is 29, are well over 30 years old.
 Brooks, who will turn 36 in April, was the 2000 N.F.L. Man of the Year, honored for contributions on the field and off. (AP) 
 AROUND THE LEAGUE St. Louis released the veteran quarterback Trent Green and receiver Drew Bennett. ... Carolina released receiver D. J. Hackett, the backup lineman Jeremy Bridges and running back Nick Goings, saving $4 million. (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); BONUS PAY (73%); VETERANS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1048 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Trading Filet Mignon for Chicken Pot Pie

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
IN the Gilded Age of the 1890s, when the local opera company held a benefit, it might have included world-class singers and ice sculptures ringed with caviar. Tickets would have been steeply priced, and the bedizened guests would have lined up to spend lavishly on games of chance that helped the charity. 
 In the equally gilded 1990s, organizers of benefits competed to arrange the most flower-embellished dinner dances with the most famous rock musicians, complete with obligatory (slightly warmed-over) filet mignon, often at the fanciest hotel in town. Admission prices were astronomical -- but so were the costs of giving the bash. 
 Now, with unemployment at record highs and the stock market at alarming lows, even the wealthy -- no matter whether they personally lost money or not -- are toning down the benefit, that yearly fund-raising ritual, in a number of ways. 
 Peter Duchin, the bandleader, said he was being asked, ''Instead of a 12-piece orchestra, could you do a 10-piece -- and charge us less?'' (His answer? ''We tell repeat charity clients, We'll work with you in these hard times,'' he said.) 
 In St. Louis, Stephanie Riven, executive director of the Center of Creative Arts, is known for her big events. As an incentive to prospective donors who are worried about their pocketbooks, she has now put tables for the museum's spring fund-raiser, a 1960s theme party, ''on sale'' for a limited time. ''If you buy your table before April 3, the price is $2,000,'' she said. ''If you buy it after, it's $2,500.'' 
 John Dobkin, who has been active in the museum world for 30 years, first as director of the National Academy of Design in New York City and now as vice president of Wilderstein, a Victorian house museum in Rhinebeck, N.Y., said the Wilderstein board has ''discussed the restructuring of the annual fund-raising party, in order to minimize the expenses and maximize the profit.'' 
 ''It's somehow considered kind of gauche now to be too aggressive about the decor, and the price, of galas,'' he said. ''Rather than a seven-piece combo, what about a D.J.? Rather than filet mignon, country food: shepherd's pie. Rather than have the extravagance, what's better than chicken pot pie?'' Wilderstein's big fund-raiser this year will be a tea dance with light fare, as opposed to a full, costly dinner. 
 Mr. Dobkin said Wilderstein would try to persuade tea companies and porcelain manufacturers to sponsor the dance -- that is, to give big money. The silent auction will be beefed up to include high tea parties given by homeowners at neighboring historic houses. The result? Almost no money will be laid out by the charity, with almost 100 percent profit. 
 So with those examples in mind, here are ways to tone down the benefit, without losing the benefits: 
 LOWER TICKET PRICES (WITHOUT LOSING MONEY) 
 This is tough, because to make a noticeable difference, ticket prices have to be toned way down -- like by half, so the charity makes half the money. Another less drastic solution is for the board president to write a letter explaining that the prices have been lowered slightly -- perhaps 15 percent -- with encouragement to give more as an additional donation. That way, donors will think the charity is being responsible, and they may be willing to further reward that restraint. 
 FEWER FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS, LESS CAVIAR 
 ''Use balloons instead of flowers,'' said Cuppy Kraft, a real estate agent who spends half the year in Delray Beach, Fla., and the other in Pittsburgh and is active in many charities. ''Even when speaking to the caterers, one might say, I don't know that we need truffles.'' Mr. Duchin advises still working with the best caterer and the best florist, but negotiating with them to reduce costs. One huge flower display in a prominent spot might be better than 20 or 30 scattered through the hall, on every table. 
 NO MORE BUSTLING WAITERS 
 ''There's not as many seated dinners now,'' said Ms. Riven, of St. Louis's art museum. ''There are more and more food stations, which are neat. You kind of graze around, sampling different foods.'' Some dinners are served from a buffet table, with only dessert and coffee served at the table by waiters. 
 FIND NEW VENUES 
 You don't have to pay for a ballroom at the Ritz. Think a trustee's grand apartment in the city or a neighbor's apple barn in the country. Or at the very least, shop around (far more than in the past) for the cheapest deal on the space you want: some places will cut prices in half if you select a Thursday night, rather than a Friday or Saturday. 
 SOLICIT FOOD AND WINE DONATIONS 
 At the Center of Creative Arts, the cocktail hour for a coming benefit has been totally donated -- for the first time. Increasingly, nonprofits are reaching out to businesses to sponsor or contribute their products, or perhaps one of the supporters owns a vineyard. So, instead of Chateau Margaux on every table, the charity may end up serving bottles from the local winery -- in fact, offering ''local'' menus has become even more popular in these environmentally conscious times. (It's easier to persuade local farmers and restaurants to donate than it is more far-flung sources.) 
 COMMUNICATE IN DIFFERENT WAYS 
 In the first broadside about the benefit, explain to donors that the board recognizes that times are hard for everyone, and tell them the steps being taken that will make the benefit less lavish -- and therefore increase the percentage that goes directly to the charity. In hard times, it probably isn't enough just to send out the usual invitations and expect the normal response. Some boards give each board member 20 or 30 invitations and ask them to personalize each one to a friend or colleague, offering to make a table of acquaintances. 
 GIVE THEM MORE FOR THEIR MONEY
 In St. Louis, Ms. Riven said that for the $450 patron ticket contributors would be invited to a reception to greet the television star Jon Hamm, of ''Mad Men'' and ''30 Rock,'' who grew up in St. Louis. In addition they will be given free cosmetics and the opportunity to be made up by local artists. ''All the guests will get more goodies in their goody bag,'' Ms. Riven added. In the Hudson Valley of New York, attendees at some sites are now being given free annual memberships. 
 Without paying attention to the appearances -- as well as the realities -- of tighter times, the professional party-givers agree: these fund-raisers may get toned down all by themselves. 
 No one will show up. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE WAY IT WAS: Lavish dinners, like this one circa 1900 for Harrison Grey Fiske, a producer, were common during the Gilded Age.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN BYRON/THE BYRON COLLECTION OF THE MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHARITIES (78%); TEA (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); POP & ROCK (73%); MUSIC (73%); AUCTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1049 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Municipal Bonds Begin to Reclaim Their Reputation

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
MUNICIPAL bond portfolios can be about as exciting as the kiddie rides at a local carnival. But last year bondholders may have felt as if they were riding over Niagara Falls in a barrel. 
 ''There was an almost total meltdown of the municipal bond fund market in 2008,'' said Rob Williams, director of fixed income at the Schwab Center for Financial Research. This may have startled municipal bondholders more than other investors, he said, because ''muni bond investors are generally looking for safety.''
 With the economic uncertainty continuing and frightening financial data emerging regularly, is it possible to construct a safe and stable muni portfolio? Yes, say a number of investment executives. 
 Investors should stick with high-quality munis, including bonds issued by state governments, well-run cities and agencies that provide essential services like water, power and mass transit, said Aaron Gurwitz, the chief investment officer of Barclays Wealth Americas. And they should avoid muni bonds issued by the kind of smaller entities with low credit ratings -- or in some cases, no credit ratings -- that dominate most high-yield municipal bond funds, he said. 
 ''There are plenty of opportunities to take risks with munis, but that's not what I am recommending now,'' Mr. Gurwitz said. 
 In general, he said he favored long-term bonds because for the first time in recent memory there is a real risk of deflation. ''Commodities, real estate and stocks all do not do well in deflation,'' he said. ''The only thing that does well is high-grade long-term bonds, because you can lock in that interest rate.''
 At the Pacific Investment Management Company, known as Pimco, John Cummings, an executive vice president, said investors who lived in high-tax states like California, New York, New Jersey and Massachusetts should buy funds that own munis in their own states to save money on state income taxes, too.
 ''You do have to be careful, though, because not all single-state funds are created alike,'' he said. ''Some of them like to buy more high-yield securities,'' including bonds issued by small, unrated agencies.
 Investors can usually tell whether a single-state fund owns a lot of high-yield munis, Mr. Cummings said, because the fund would have been much more volatile last year than other muni funds focused on that state. It would also have a lower average credit rating.
 Although high-grade munis are safer than many other investments, they are not immune from serious problems.
 Muni bondholders in California were jolted this month when Standard & Poor's downgraded the state's $46 billion of general obligation bonds to an A rating from an A-plus. The credit analysts said that the legislature's failure to reach an agreement on a midyear budget was an important reason for the downgrade. California reached a budget agreement last week, which included wide-ranging tax increases and spending cuts.
 Bond experts say California's munis are still safe and note that states -- unlike other muni bond issuers like cities and public agencies -- are not allowed to declare bankruptcy.
 And if investors are uncomfortable with public finances in their states, said Hugh McGuirk, the head of municipal investments at the T. Rowe Price Group, they could opt for national muni bond funds. ''You will lose the in-state tax benefit, which is wonderful,'' he said, but you might sleep better at night.
 Mr. McGuirk said he now preferred long-term muni bonds, with an average duration of around eight years, because ''the yields are not that attractive anymore on the short-term bonds, from one to five years.''
 Thomas M. Metzold, the portfolio manager of the Eaton Vance National Municipals Fund, said money had started flowing back into the municipal bond market in January in part because of the federal economic stimulus package. He said the provision for $87 billion to support Medicaid should be enough to close the budget deficits in many states.
 ''I believe that's a big reason why munis have rallied, and why they will continue to rally,'' Mr. Metzold said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (96%); BONDS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); DEFLATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); INCOME TAX (50%)

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (65%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1050 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 721 words

PERSON: Victor Zarnowitz 

HEADLINE: Victor Zarnowitz, 89, Dies; Faulted Business Forecasts

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Victor Zarnowitz, a noted economist and expert on business cycles who for decades traced the history of economic predictions -- and often found the forecasting faulty -- died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan.
 The cause was a heart attack, said Frank Tortorici, a spokesman for the Conference Board, for which Dr. Zarnowitz had been a senior fellow and economic counselor since 1999. The board is the nonprofit research organization that compiles, among other data, the nation's monthly Consumer Confidence Index as well as the leading economic indicators for 10 countries, including the United States. 
 Dr. Zarnowitz, an emeritus professor of economics at the University of Chicago, was also a research associate for the National Bureau of Economic Research, and in that capacity was one of the seven economists who officially determine when the United States is in a recession. 
 In 1952, Dr. Zarnowitz came to the United States from his native Poland and soon was analyzing the pitfalls of economic prediction. In 1975, he released a study of the findings reached by more than 50 forecasters from 1962 to 1974. Preliminary figures showed that their predictions about shifts in the gross national product had generally been off by margins that Dr. Zarnowitz said would make a difference between a boom and merely good business, or between good business and a recession. 
 The forecasters had incorrectly predicted the size of changes in the gross national product, erring by more than 1 percentage point -- a significant error -- four times. Twice, in 1970 and 1974, they had predicted that the G.N.P. would rise when it actually dropped. 
 As computerized econometric models came more into play, analyzing what would happen with each change in a complex set of variables, Dr. Zarnowitz turned his attention to adherents of the new formulas.
 ''Their expectations ran high that in such models lay the answer to the challenges of economic forecasting and policy making,'' he wrote in a 1980 Op-Ed article for The New York Times. ''They were to be disappointed.''
 ''Forecasts of econometric model builders have been no more accurate than the forecasts of those who analyze business conditions using less formal methods,'' he wrote. ''Both groups, for example, failed to predict the recession in 1974.''
 Dr. Zarnowitz wrote ''Business Cycles: Theory, History, Indicators and Forecasting'' (University of Chicago Press, 1992). In an endorsement of the book, Alan S. Blinder, an economics professor at Princeton who became vice chairman of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve, said Dr. Zarnowitz ''probably knows more about business cycles than anyone else.'' 
 Last year, Dr. Zarnowitz published a memoir, ''Fleeing the Nazis, Surviving the Gulag, and Arriving in the Free World'' (Praeger).
 Born on Nov. 3, 1919, in the small town of Lancut in Poland, Victor Zarnowitz was one of two sons of Leopold and Bertha Zarnowitz. His father was a professor of literature. The family later moved to Oswiecim, known in German as Auschwitz. 
 In September 1939, when the Nazis invaded Poland, Victor and his brother, Tadek, fled to the east, only to be captured by the Russians and imprisoned in a labor camp in Siberia. Tadek died in the camp, but Victor escaped and was eventually reunited with his parents. 
 After he earned a doctorate in economics at the University of Heidelberg in Germany, Dr. Zarnowitz and his parents came to the United States in 1952, settling first in New York and, in 1959, moving to Chicago. There, he became a professor at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.
 Dr. Zarnowitz's wife of 54 years, the former Lena Engelman, died in 2000. He is survived by two sons, Arthur, of San Jose, Calif., and Steven, of Ann Arbor, Mich.; and three grandchildren.
 While Dr. Zarnowitz's lifelong studies pointed to shortcomings in economic forecasting, they did hold that it was not always fair to criticize the forecasters for their miscues, particularly because their predictions were sometimes based on faulty data about things that had already happened. 
 Still, in a conclusion that seems prescient today, Dr. Zarnowitz said in 1966, ''The record of predicting turning points -- changes in the direction of economic activity -- is on the whole poor.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Victor Zarnowitz found that economic predictions were often off by more than a little. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARINO BELICH, 2000) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MODELING & SIMULATION (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1051 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Cracking the Code As Tax Changes Loom

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
''WHAT I have said is, I want to provide a tax cut for 95 percent of working Americans, 95 percent. If you make less than a quarter-million dollars a year, then you will not see your income tax go up, your capital gains tax go up, your payroll tax. Not one dime. . . .'' 
 Those were the words of Senator Barack Obama, speaking on Oct. 15 at Hofstra University in a nationally televised presidential debate with Senator John McCain. It was an idea he reiterated in his address to Congress Tuesday night. 
 But suppose you are in the top 5 percent? 
 The Congressional Budget Office warned in January that the budget deficit for this year would reach a record $1.2 trillion. Consequently, tax professionals expect Congress to raise tax rates for the upper echelon, perhaps this year or next. 
 Nevertheless, some savvy taxpayers may be able to give themselves a tax cut -- or at least put the tax laws to work for them to raise their after-tax return on investments.
 For starters, don't just toss those envelopes that arrive in the mail marked Important Tax Document into a file to turn over to your accountant. Open them. Assess your situation. Even fill out the accountant's organizer with the information requested on income and deductions. 
 And don't view the accountant as just the person who prepares your return. Be ready to discuss changes you might make in your financial plan for after-tax improvements in the coming year. 
 Three leading tax professionals discussed taxpayer strategies. 
 ACCELERATE INCOME ''I don't think taxes will ever be as low as they are now,'' said Sidney Kess, a New York tax lawyer and certified public accountant, ''so I would accelerate income and defer deductions,'' which many self-employed people can do. 
 Before 2001, dividends were taxed as ordinary income at rates as high as 39.6 percent. Now most dividends are taxed at a maximum rate of 15 percent. In case that preferential treatment is abandoned, Mr. Kess suggested that closely held businesses that can afford to do so pay out sizable dividends while the rates are low.
 Long-term capital gains on securities are also taxed at a maximum rate of 15 percent. So investors might consider recognizing those gains before the law is changed. ''I doubt they'll make it retroactive on dividends and capital gains,'' Mr. Kess said. ''It would be politically unpopular.''
 You can also use personal gifts to lower tax liabilities. Suppose you have been helping to support an elderly aunt who is in the lowest tax bracket, 10 percent. You can give her up to $13,000 in high-dividend securities with no gift or estate tax consequence, he said, and she will owe no tax on the dividends.
 CAPTURE LOSSES Tim Kochis, chief executive of Aspiriant, an independent wealth management firm with offices in San Francisco and Los Angeles, advised investors to ''capture losses.'' Many clients resist selling because they view a loss as a comment on their judgment and they hope the stock will come back.
 A capital loss can offset a like amount of capital gains, making them tax-free, he said. What is more, it can be carried forward for years until it is used up and can even offset up to $3,000 a year of ordinary income. 
 Say an investor who bought 1,000 shares of Citigroup at $55 in May 2007 could not bear to sell late last year when the stock plunged like a stone, ending the year at $6.71. It is now below $3. She could sell the shares, taking about $52,000 in losses. If she has accumulated portfolio gains, she will owe no capital gains tax up to that amount. 
 And if she expects bank stocks to recover, Mr. Kochis said, she could buy shares of similarly beleaguered Bank of America, for example. She has to be out of Citigroup for more than 30 days for the loss to be considered valid. 
 Mr. Kochis, who said he saw ''a good chance of market recovery later this year,'' added that ''if ever there was an appropriate time to use margin, it is now,'' when both asset prices and interest rates are low. 
 Although leverage was largely responsible for the economic and financial crises, he said, those who limit margin to 25 percent are unlikely to face margin calls and could see enhanced gains. Dividends could provide enough investment income that the margin interest would be deductible, he added.
 COMMUNICATE Bill Fleming, a tax director in the private client services group of PricewaterhouseCoopers in Hartford, asked, ''Are your tax guy and your investment guy talking to each other?'' It is important that they do so, he said, so that you are not receiving conflicting advice. ''Invite them to lunch and sit down together,'' he suggested. 
 Some people in their 40s and 50s have sold successful businesses and retired early, he said. A common tax mistake is investing all the proceeds in tax-exempt municipal bonds. 
 At least some of the money should be put into higher yielding Treasury or corporate bonds, so taxpayers have enough taxable income to offset deductions like property taxes and charitable contributions, he said. 
 Another consideration for municipal bonds is whether a taxpayer is subject to the alternative minimum tax, he said. Some munis are not tax-exempt for A.M.T. purposes, so they pay a higher interest rate, but if a taxpayer is subject to the A.M.T., he should avoid those issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ESTATE PLANNING (74%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); ESTATE TAX (73%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); LAWYERS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1052 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: And Do I Hear 2 Million? No? 1 Million? Sold!

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
As housing prices around the country began to tumble about three years ago, the New York market kept rising, and only in the last year did it begin to show some weakness.
 But now sales in the city have slowed so significantly that worried developers are planning to auction off some luxury condos in the spring for around half of what they were asking just a year ago. 
 Developers who are awash in unsold inventory see auctions as a tactic to jolt a paralyzed public to life. 
 A two-bedroom on the Upper East Side, for example, could be marked down to $1.1 million from $2.2 million.
 Real estate professionals say Wall Street's continued prosperity through much of 2008 shielded New York from the forces that were pushing the rest of the nation's housing market down. 
 But today, with the credit crisis and the Wall Street meltdown, fewer people are able to buy homes. With the economic crisis spreading worldwide, there also seem to be fewer wealthy foreigners buying Manhattan condos.
 Real estate auctions, rarely used in New York, have the potential to both move property and indicate to reluctant buyers what the true market prices are. Given the current sales drought, even a handful of auctions could reset prices for new condominiums citywide, said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, a Manhattan research and appraisal company. He said he expects the auctioned properties to sell for 40 to 45 percent below the asking prices of the first quarter of 2008, when the market peaked. 
 Today, almost every signpost is bleak for new developments. Buyers who signed contracts long before condo projects were completed are expected to walk away in droves this coming quarter. In many cases, these buyers will be abandoning deposits of $100,000 or more that pale in comparison to the slide in market values. Many buyers may have lost jobs, or may be worried about their jobs, while others will be unable to get financing.
 Accelerated Marketing Partners, a real estate marketing firm, is discussing auctions that will start as early as April on five mid-range to high-end projects in desirable neighborhoods of Manhattan and Brooklyn. ''We're in a deflationary, devaluating market in which no one knows the value of anything anymore,'' said Jon Gollinger, the co-founder and chief executive of the firm, based in Boston. 
 There are 8,000 new condos on the market in New York City, and 22,000 more are scheduled to go on the market by the end of next year. ''You've got all this inventory that's been based on this young financial buyer and international buyers,'' Mr. Gollinger said, but those buyers have been hard hit by Wall Street's collapse.
 Most developers declined to discuss the subject. But one lender, who asked not to be identified because his plans are not final, said he intends to hire Accelerated to auction a large group of units in April. ''We have quite a large investment in a new condo building in a good location downtown,'' he said, but sales have been ''very, very slow.''
 With just under 50 units, the building is currently priced around $1,000 per square foot. Minimum bids will probably be set at around $600 per square foot, the lender said. 
 Henry Justin, a developer who has 48 units left to sell in a 73-unit Midtown building, said sales hit a wall in December. ''All the deals I'm doing are all-cash, mostly from foreign buyers, because only people with a private banking relationship can get any money out of a bank right now,'' he said. Mr. Justin doubts that lower prices will sell many units because so many buyers cannot obtain mortgages. 
 Accelerated, the auctioneer, has been working with the development marketing group at Prudential Douglas Elliman. Andy Gerringer, the group's managing director, said he has urged clients to consider auctions, because many of them are selling only one or two units a month, if any.
 In the auctions run by Accelerated, only a portion of a building's unsold units are sold in one swoop, to avoid depressing values more than necessary. The remainder are marketed the traditional way, at the new, lower auction prices. 
 Auctions of unsold New York City condos in a wider range of quality and locations are also anticipated in May by the national auctioneer Sheldon Good & Company. This week, the company announced a deal to auction all 17 units of a completely unsold new condominium building in Weehawken, N.J. 
 ''Large amounts of inventory will be offered at aggressively low or no minimum bids,'' said Jeffrey L. Hubbard, an executive managing director at Sheldon Good. 
 Auctioneers say inquiries from developers rose in early January. ''The general impression I get is that this period of denial -- the market-will-get-better mentality -- is coming to a close,'' said Mr. Miller, the appraiser, who will likely be working with Accelerated to determine the market value of units put up for auction. ''The reality that everyone is coming to grips with is that demand levels will remain lower until liquidity is returned to the mortgage markets.''
 Auctions have succeeded in loosening other battered markets, like South Florida. In two held there last fall by Accelerated, 30 to 40 units in partly sold developments went for about half their peak prices. The developers say sales have picked up since then, at prices slightly below those received at auction. 
 Auctions have not been used in New York in any significant way since the early 1990s, when an oversupply of rental-to-co-op conversions collided with a recession and double-digit interest rates. 
 While many developers resist auctions, investors are pushing for quicker sales. ''Auctions will hit New York City because of pressure from the underlying lender,'' said John Di Fiore, the senior vice president at Real Estate Capital Partners, which runs a fund that invested in two Manhattan condo developments. 
 The reduced asking prices could bring condos in line with prices seen just a few years ago. The average sales price of a two-bedroom Upper East Side condo was just above $1 million in 2002. It rose to $1.5 million in 2004, and to $2.2 million at its peak in 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon Gollinger's firm may soon auction New York condos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARLENE KARAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A23) CHART: ANOTHER AILING MARKET: Two condo buildings in Florida held auctions last fall, selling units at deep discounts. (pg.A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); DEFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); DEVALUATION (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: DECISION RESOURCES GROUP (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1053 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Exports Plunge as Downturn Spreads in Asia

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Japan's exports fell by 46 percent in January, and Hong Kong's economy contracted 2.5 percent in the last three months of 2008, further signs that the economic downturn in Asia is set to drag on through this year, data released Wednesday showed. 
 Much of Asia's growth in recent years was based on an export boom, allowing the recession in the United States and Europe to spread through a region that had been insulated from the American financial troubles that ignited the current downturn.
 The Japanese economy was one of the first in Asia to tip into recession last year as weakness stemming from poor domestic demand was compounded by evaporating demand from overseas. During the last three months of 2008, Japan's economy shrank 12.7 percent from the year-earlier period, and the trade data for January, which was released Wednesday, underpinned economists' views that the start of 2009 was looking even worse.
 Exports plunged 46 percent from a year earlier and imports dropped 32 percent, echoing similarly sharp declines reported recently by China and Taiwan. 
 Overseas demand is unlikely to pick up soon; Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said late on Tuesday that full recovery could be at least a year away.
 Japan's export decline was in line with what analysts had expected, and was in part due to the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday in January. But it was a significant worsening from an already grim December, when exports fell 35 percent. The yen -- whose strength against the dollar has made Japanese goods more expensive for American consumers -- has weakened during the last three weeks, trading at around 97 to the dollar on Wednesday, compared with about 89 in early February. But it remains much stronger than levels of around 108 yen a year ago and will continue to be a serious drag on the Japanese economy. 
 Virtually every big-name exporter has cited the yen as a main reason for sharply reduced sales that are expected to lead to deep losses this year. 
 Honda, one of the few companies to still project a profit for the business year ending in March, said on Wednesday that its vehicle production was down 33.5 percent in January.
 In Hong Kong, meanwhile, the government said on Wednesday that it expected the economy to shrink 2 to 3 percent in 2009, continuing a contraction that began last year, when growth slowed to 2.5 percent, compared with 6.4 percent in 2007. In the last quarter of 2008, the economy contracted 2.5 percent compared with a year earlier.
 Hong Kong, like Japan and Singapore, slipped into recession late last year, partly because of its relative openness and the exposure to the financial sector. Unlike Singapore, which expects its economy to shrink by as much as 5 percent this year, economists say Hong Kong benefits from its proximity and links to China, where the government has announced huge stimulus measures and has the financial ability and policy leeway to do more.
 Hong Kong also announced on Wednesday a series of policy measures to support growth, including tax cuts and additional spending on public works projects.
 Elsewhere in the region, South Korea said it would start a $13.2 billion fund to bolster its commercial banks and dispel worries about the stability of its financial sector.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CURRENCIES (88%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); HONG KONG (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1054 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Diversity Plan For a District: Using Hebrew

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD, N.J. 

 BODY:
 The surprise wasn't that a meeting envisioned as an informal conversation among about 10 people drew more than 300 from across Bergen County. It was that something like Raphael Bachrach's modest proposal -- and the fevered debate it has set off -- didn't happen sooner here or someplace else like it.
 Mr. Bachrach is a Jewish parent in a suburban school district where a majority of Jews are Orthodox and send their children to Jewish day schools. A year ago, he proposed a Hebrew-language charter school as an alternative. 
 That was turned down, but local school officials proposed an alternative. The district has a highly regarded program where elementary school students learn in both English and Spanish. Englewood's interim superintendent, Richard Segall, raised the possibility of a similar dual-language program -- strictly nonreligious -- in Hebrew and English, that would attract both Jews and non-Jews. It would be the first public school Hebrew-English program of its kind in the country.
 There is a Hebrew-language charter school in Florida, and one has been approved for Brooklyn. But Englewood's proposal would be in an existing public school. The issue is particularly close to the surface in suburbs where high local school taxes and expensive day schools combine with the economic meltdown.
 ''We are losing precious Jewish souls because of financial birth control,'' Amy Citron, a mother in neighboring Teaneck, wrote in January in The New Jersey Jewish Standard, a local weekly, arguing that children should be enrolled in public schools and then afternoon religious programs.
 The proposal in Englewood offered an alternative for Jewish families who either wanted a public alternative to religious schools or no longer could afford them. For the district, which is overwhelmingly black and Hispanic, it offered a pathway toward its mandate of diversifying its schools and the potential to heal some of the fractures in a community where social divisions are mirrored in educational ones.
 Mr. Bachrach, a father of five, said his motivation was not financial but personal and cultural -- he was unhappy with his older children's experiences in a religious school and uncomfortable with the cultural division in town.
 ''Englewood is a very divided kind of community,'' he said. ''People don't know people across town, and it goes both ways; we don't know them and they don't know us.''
 ON the other hand, Rabbi Shmuel Goldin, of Englewood's Congregation Ahavath Torah, said religious day schools had become a bulwark against assimilation: families send children there for both a religious education and a Jewish experience strong enough to give them a Jewish identity they'll carry off to college and beyond. You can't duplicate that in the public schools, he said.
 ''We as a Jewish community try to strike a very fine balance between being in the world and participating in society and at the same time maintaining a very strong Jewish identity,'' he said. ''Until now, the greatest success we've had in maintaining that balance has been through the Jewish day school system. We need to be open to new ideas, but I'd be very hesitant to do anything that would threaten the day school process.''
 He said Jewish community leaders were looking at various proposals, one of which would ask the entire Jewish community to support the private day schools, not just Jewish parents -- in effect a voluntary school tax on top of the compulsory public school tax. That's probably a tough sell these days.
 Agreeing on the concept would be far easier than the details of keeping it an educational program, not a religious one -- kosher school kitchens? Paid use of school facilities for after-school religious instruction? Private prayer supervised by rabbis or parents? -- that would go into making it work.
 Dr. Segall said it was clear that the program would have to be secular and fashioned for both Jews and non-Jews. ''It's definitely not a simple thing to work out,'' he said.
 In Teaneck, A. Spencer Denham, the acting superintendent, sounded interested but skeptical.
 ''The district will certainly look at the concept, since there is considerable public interest in it,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''However, we have to ensure that the constitutional issue, of undue entanglement of government and religion, must be in focus from the start. That presents a very high hurdle for the concept to be pursued.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (76%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (74%); APPROVALS (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1055 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cuts Bring Layoffs To Museums

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
Three regional museums are cutting staff as the economic downturn takes its toll on attendance and endowments. The Detroit Institute of Arts said it would lay off about 20 percent of its staff, or 63 of its 301 employees, in an effort to cut $6 million from its $34 million annual budget, The Detroit Free Press reported. The layoffs would affect 56 full-time and 7 part-time employees from across the museum's staff; the museum has already canceled planned exhibitions on the Baroque period and the artwork of Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns and Jim Dine. The Philadelphia Museum of Art said it would eliminate 30 positions through layoffs and attrition and cut the pay of its senior staff in an effort to reduce its operating budget by $1.7 million to $52 million, The Philadelphia Inquirer reported. The museum is also contemplating raising its admission fees, though that would ultimately require the approval of the city. The High Museum of Art in Atlanta announced a series of budget cuts on Wednesday, including a 7 percent reduction of its staff, the elimination of five full-time and three part-time positions, and pay cuts for its remaining employees. The museum said the reductions and other cost-cutting efforts would save $1.4 million and reduce its operating budget to $23.7 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET CUTS (92%); LAYOFFS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1056 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Big U.S. Role In Lending To Students

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
The federal government has quietly increased its support of the student loan market to such a degree that the real question may be whether there is a role left for private lenders at all.
 The Education Department agreed in the waning days of the Bush administration to expand its commitment to buy student loans to keep the market working, much as the government has agreed to buy up all manner of loans, from mortgages to commercial paper, to unfreeze various credit markets.
 The newest initiative was announced late last fall when there was great concern about the ability of college students and their families to get continued financing for education. The most likely size of the program, detailed in the Federal Register on Jan. 15, was $25 billion. 
 But in a contract signed just four days later, on the last day of the Bush administration, the Education Department effectively agreed to buy up to $60 billion in loans, $35 billion more than the figure published in the Federal Register. That is almost enough to purchase all the federal loans made to students last year.
 The government already pays a subsidy to banks and others making what are called federally guaranteed student loans. It also covers nearly all the losses if a student defaults on such a loan. In the current economic crisis, it is buying the loans, thereby providing the banks with capital for new lending. That has caused critics to say they wonder whether a middleman is really needed in this business. 
 ''What has happened is, we set up a system in which we ensure liquidity by allowing them to dump their paper on us,'' said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. If lenders rely on the government for money to make more loans, he continued, ''What is the purpose of the loan industry?''
 On the campaign trail in 2007, President Obama strongly criticized the guaranteed loan program, calling it ''a wasteful system.''
 During the Clinton era, the government began making some loans directly to students, but those loans accounted for a small portion of the market. The government backed about $53 billion in student loans made by banks and other lenders last year, compared with just $13 billion in loans it extended directly to students. (Those two categories account for the vast majority of student loans, though banks made about $18 billion in other student loans last year with no subsidy or guarantee from the government.) 
 Under the federally guaranteed loan program, the government pays a subsidy to lenders like Citigroup, Wells Fargo and Sallie Mae. The subsidy is set by Congress, which also sets the maximum interest rate that the lenders may charge students, to foster lending at attractive rates. 
 Banks and their advocates have lobbied against the direct loan program and have filed lawsuits against it to stunt its growth. They have long contended that they offer superior terms and service to students. 
 Depending on which program their college participates in, students and their families are usually directed to either the government or an outside lender for say, a Stafford loan for students or a Plus loan for parents, and rarely compare the terms themselves. Whether the government or private lenders provide better deals to students and to taxpayers has been a matter of great dispute. 
 The lenders say they provide an essential function. ''There's a huge apparatus for administering the student loan program that the private sector assumes, in terms of marketing the loans, servicing, distributing the loans, repayment, that is not on the platter of the federal government,'' said Kevin Bruns, executive director of America's Student Loan Providers, a trade group.
 Similarly, the lenders view the newest programs as a short-term necessity stemming from the credit crisis. ''If you believe in having a strong private sector and having private capital in as much lending as possible, then some sort of fix to get us through this period makes sense,'' Mr. Bruns added.
 But the new program to support private lenders -- and its mushrooming size -- have drawn scrutiny from the Obama administration.
 ''It was a last-minute deal, done at the 11th hour, and we want to make sure that it makes sense for students and for taxpayers,'' said Arne Duncan, who recently replaced Margaret Spellings as education secretary. The concern, Mr. Duncan said, is that the program may put taxpayer dollars at risk.
 While saying the department would stand behind the agreements, he has asked for a complete report on the program by June 30.
 The Education Department has already paid $24 billion to lenders over the last year. But under the newest program, the department has agreed to buy an additional $60 billion in existing loans from a company called Straight A Funding, a Delaware company set up last month.
 Straight A aims to buy student loans with the backing of investors. If it has difficulty, it can borrow up to $60 billion from the Federal Financing Bank, supervised by the Treasury Department, and even sell that amount of loans to the Education Department. It will be administered by Bank of New York Mellon and advised by a committee of lenders including Sallie Mae, Nelnet, a Citigroup unit called the Student Loan Corporation, Access Group and the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency. Like many other recent financial initiatives, it indirectly will shore up the balance sheets of lenders. 
 This new program will allow lenders to sell back to the government federally guaranteed loans made as long ago as October 2003. And that has some concerned that lenders will dump their worst loans, leaving the government with losses.
 The program is supposed to cost taxpayers nothing, but the Obama administration has asked for additional analysis.
 ''We have reviewed the analysis with the staff here, and we do not have confidence in the bottom line,'' said a senior official at the White House Office of Management and Budget, who insisted on anonymity, citing administration policy. Referring to differences between agreements entered into by the departing Bush administration and public descriptions of the program, the official added, ''The documents on their face raise serious questions about whether it's cost-neutral.''
 Ms. Spellings, the former education secretary, said in an interview this week that the Education Department would be the appropriate department to gauge the financial impact because it had extensive experience with student loans. 
 ''We're the only people that have the capability to do that sort of thing,'' she said. The structure of the program was shared with Congress, she said, adding, ''No one raised objections.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arne Duncan, the education secretary, ordered a study of the department's purchase of student loans from private lenders.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VERONIKA LUKASOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENT LOANS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); SLM CORP (50%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); SLM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1057 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: When the Next Wave Wipes Out

BYLINE: By SCOTT TIMBERG

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 WHEN Emily Cook, a screenwriter, bought a house four years ago in Eagle Rock, a neighborhood on the Northeast side of Los Angeles, she fantasized what the area might look like in a year or two, with cafes and boutiques replacing tattered old businesses. ''It was like fantasy football,'' said Ms. Cook, 38, who also sings in a band named Fonda. 
 A sad flower shop on the corner, she thought, could become a miniature Whole Foods. An upholstery store could be a gastropub where she and friends would grab a beer, and a neglected 1940s diner could become a retro spot for a quick meal. 
 But Ms. Cook has stopped fantasizing about what might be, and started worrying about what might shut down. The flower store has closed; no gourmet market is moving in. Lucy Finch, a vintage boutique, folded last month. That Yarn Store, a hangout for crochet-heads, didn't survive a bad winter. 
 And what will become of the storefront that once housed Blue Heeler, which sold Australian imports?
 ''Please don't make it another martial arts studio,'' Ms. Cook pleaded. ''What is it about Eagle Rock and martial arts?''
 The deep recession, with its lost jobs and falling home values nationwide, poses another kind of threat: to the character of neighborhoods settled by the young creative class, from the Lower East Side in Manhattan to Beacon Hill in Seattle. The tide of gentrification that transformed economically depressed enclaves is receding, leaving some communities high and dry. 
 For long-time residents, the return to pre-boom rents may be a blessing. But it also poses a rattling question of identity: What happens to bourgeois bohemia when the bourgeois part drops out? 
 Over the last five to six years, Eagle Rock became the glamour girl of Northeast Los Angeles, a crescent where the asphalt jungle meets the foothills. The neighborhood of 35,000 or so has attracted screenwriters and composers, Web designers and animators, who labor on their laptops in cafes, discuss film projects at Friday night wine tastings, and let their children play with the handmade wooden toys in a Scandinavian-style coffee shop, Swork.
 It is easy to sniff at such urban affectations. But the downturn endangers more than precious shops; residents worry that as stores close, the fabric of a bohemian utopia -- with its Jane Jacobs mix of commerce and public spiritedness -- will also unravel. 
 Less than a decade ago, Eagle Rock was an unlikely candidate for gentrification. For decades, students at Occidental College -- who have included Luke Wilson, Ben Affleck and Barack Obama -- complained to friends that there was nothing to do in their college town.
 Tracy King, a real estate agent, said that when she moved to the neighborhood in 1983, ''there were 79 auto-related businesses on Colorado and Eagle Rock Boulevards.''
 But as housing prices rose, bohemia expanded beyond the Los Angeles neighborhoods of Venice on the Westside and Silver Lake east of Hollywood. Eagle Rock filled with parents needing a place to roost. Hair salons with monosyllabic names like Loft quickly followed. Density increased, and so did foot traffic; shoppers could walk from store to restaurant to bar. 
 Real estate followed the national boom: a three-bedroom house in Eagle Rock that sold for a median of about $260,000 in 2000 more than doubled to $620,000 in 2005, before slumping a bit (to about $570,000) over the last year. 
 As the population changed, so did the culture. Jeff Tritch, 53, has worked for decades at his family's store, Tritch Hardware. He wears plaid shirts that likely pre-date Nirvana.
 ''Back in the '70s,'' he recalled, ''the guys had 9-to-5 jobs and would only come in on the weekends. People nowadays come in all times. They have different kinds of jobs -- on the Net, in the entertainment business. We don't have that Saturday rush anymore.''
 The new residents brought prosperity and, the locals say, a little arrogance as well. ''They sounded the trumpets and announced a vision of something like Silver Lake or Los Feliz,'' said Bob de Velasco, who runs Commercial Printing Network, a copy shop. ''But it's not going to happen. Eagle Rock wasn't meant to have that. Eagle Rock is an old-fashioned, atmospheric town.''
 Indeed, in this downturn, Mr. de Velasco's printing shop doesn't seem to be hurting, nor is Tritch Hardware. The shops at risk are the ones playing the Decembrists in a continuous loop.
 ''Some of them tried niche things,'' Mr. Tritch said, with no gloat in his voice. ''That didn't work out.''
 Kelly Witmer, 38, the owner of Regeneration, a retro-design shop that opened in 2006, looks exhausted by the drop in business. She recently rented out half her space to keep afloat. ''It seems a little slow in Eagle Rock right now, in spite of people saying it's the next big thing, or the new Silver Lake,'' she said. ''At least on my side of the street, there's not a lot of foot traffic.''
 Eagle Rock is less dependent on the film industry than Hollywood or the Westside, but film industry cutbacks haven't helped. ''Eagle Rock is full of set decorators and assistants and film music editors and actors,'' said Craig Powell, who opened Pollen Botanical Design in 2006.
 If an actors' strike materializes, these Hollywood types are exactly the people who will stop spending. Shannon Bedell, 37, who closed Blue Heeler, the Australian contemporary design shop, had counted on customers willing to shop locally as a matter of principle. ''What do you call them now -- they're not yuppies anymore, they're affluent 30-to-45 people who were new to the area but wanted it to be a neighborhood,'' she said. By any name, they've changed their shopping habits.
 In bad times, neighborhood idealism can be compromised with one trip to Wal-Mart. In terrible times, idealism goes the way of that baby boutique that just tanked. 
 ''The problem is this,'' said D. J. Waldie, a historian of Southern California, ''if we truly believed that patronizing these places enlivened our neighborhoods, why aren't we there -- eating the omelets or shopping at the boutique?''
 ''Those places are important -- they dissolve some of the cruel anonymity of everyday life,'' he said. ''They're part of the equation of making the local real to us. But they're not the whole equation. They're not enough.''
 Mr. Waldie added: ''I've got enough handmade soap. I don't need anymore.''
 It is hard to think of many on-the-verge neighborhoods that, historically, have been able to stay on the edge. In New York, SoHo and Greenwich Village aren't the artistic havens they once were. And other neighborhoods, promising to be the next best thing -- well, the ''next'' never arrived.
 ''Neighborhoods go through what you call a sweet spot,'' said Joel Kotkin, author of ''The City: A Global History,'' who is a critic of some forms of gentrification. ''It's safe, it's a nice place to live, it still has unique shops and hangouts.'' 
 But this mix rarely lasts forever. ''The ecosystems of these neighborhoods are very fragile,'' Mr. Kotkin said. ''Over-stimulation, and, in a recession, under-stimulation, and you have dangers.''
 Mr. Powell of Pollen Botanical Design serves on Eagle Rock's neighborhood council and predicts that as many as six businesses of the two dozen or so that make up the new Eagle Rock could close soon. ''What do you lose?'' he said. ''Character, ambiance, originality, creativity, edge. We're the interesting ones -- the unique boutiques. We're the flavor, the salt in the food.'' 
 Or maybe not. 
 Christian Lander, 30, who jeered the pretensions of the creative class on his Web site, Stuff White People Like, lives a few miles to the west of Eagle Rock and says things will be fine -- better even. ''The economic downturn is good for fringe neighborhoods,'' Mr. Lander said. ''It returns the neighborhood to the people who consider themselves to be real residents.'' 
 Indeed, Eagle Rock will probably return to being a neighborhood whose best qualities are well-preserved homes, old-school pizza and a really good hardware store.
 But the ability to walk from place to place -- which took years to build -- could disappear. The cityscape will be dominated by Walgreens and muffler shops. Occidental students will again complain that there's nothing to do.
 It would return, that is, to being a Los Angeles version of flyover country. And its residents would live a different life than they expected. 
 Jen Verti, 33, a publicist at the ABC Family channel who lives in Eagle Rock, is using grocery-store coupons for the first time in her life. ''I think we've been more cautious,'' she said.
 Apryl Lundsten, 38, who helps run a podcast, Eagle Rock Talk, said she dines out less since her husband lost his job as a television writer. Now, they are more likely to get together at friends' homes with food from Trader Joe's.
 For her part, Ms. Cook, the screenwriter, has given up her neighborhood shopping fantasies. ''When we first moved here,'' she said, ''I wanted it to be cool. But that stuff doesn't matter anymore.'' 
 She still likes Eagle Rock and jokes that she can even make peace with the martial arts studios. ''I'm thinking,'' she said with a smile, ''of taking it up.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Feb. 26 about Eagle Rock, a Los Angeles neighborhood whose gentrification is being slowed by the recession, misspelled the name of a rock group whose music is typically heard in some of the neighborhood's boutiques. The are the Decemberists, not the Decembrists.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE SLOW LIFE: There is little foot traffic in the retro design shop owned by Kelly Witmer, above. At left, the quiet Eagle Rock neighborhood at the smoggy edge of Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATASHA CALZATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
IN AND OUT: The Lucy Finch boutique, above, has closed. Jeff Tritch, above right, in the family hardware store. The Swork coffee shop has some loyal patrons. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NATASHA CALZATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WRITERS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FLORISTS (76%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (76%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (76%); FABRICS (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (72%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); MARTIAL ARTS (66%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (66%); ANIMATION (61%); LAYOFFS (57%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1058 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: In Uncertain Times, Donors Hold Back

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
CHARITABLY inclined people are anxious. Charities, like businesses and families, have suffered in the economic maelstrom, while their services are needed more than ever. But donors fear they can no longer afford to give as much as they once did. 
 There is a ''psychology of conserving assets at present,'' said Richard Kohan, a partner in the private client services group of PricewaterhouseCoopers in Boston. That, he said, is creating internal conflict for many wealthy people with ''a heartfelt, sincere desire to give back to the community.'' 
 The need is certainly there. William G. Droms, professor of finance at the McDonough School of Business at Georgetown University, said, as an example, that requests for food and rent assistance at Catholic Charities of Northern Virginia were running at two to three times the normal level as more people lose their jobs and homes. 
 Mr. Kohan, Professor Droms and other experts on charitable giving discussed ways donors might give in tough times without putting themselves in financial peril, should the economy and financial markets continue their fall.
 For example, Mr. Kohan said, an organization asked a supporter for a multiyear pledge for a capital project. The man felt it might not be possible for him to keep the pledge. But there can be a middle ground, Mr. Kohan said. ''We're coming off a period of yes, yes, yes. It doesn't have to be no, no, no.''
 Mr. Kohan suggested that the man tell the charity he would give a certain amount of money but could not promise it. He would make a ''down payment'' on the total this year and reassess the matter next year. There are other ways to give, Mr. Kohan said. People can donate professional services. Supporters can also help by finding more people among friends and associates who are willing to become donors. 
 Lisa Philp, head of philanthropic services at J. P. Morgan Private Bank, said many affluent families had previously been willing to give ''a little of this, a little of that'' to satisfy requests of various family members. Now they are becoming more focused, drawing up mission statements for family foundations. 
 By law the foundations must make a required minimum distribution each year, she said, based on assets in the previous year, even though for most people, those assets have shrunk. Some families are responding by adding more money, she said, but others see no choice but to reduce outlays. 
 ''One of our clients cares deeply about three organizations -- his alma mater, the medical center that cared for his mother, and his church,'' she said, so ''he is staying the course with his most valued groups and cutting back on others.'' Some donors are focusing on children's services and human services, Ms. Philp said, because those are areas where they fear government support is likely to decline as state and local governments face budget deficits.
 Professor Droms outlined a strategy to help a charity while preserving an income stream. The donor, working with the charity's planned giving office, can buy a charitable gift annuity, which will pay a lifetime income flow that can be tax-free to the donor. The charity inherits the principal after the donor's death.
 Donors can use part of the income to replace the asset in their estates by buying life insurance to benefit heirs, he said, and still realize 4 to 4.5 percent a year for themselves, which is more than today's yield on many bonds and C.D.'s. 
 For a smaller gift, ''just go ahead and give the money,'' Professor Droms said. One donor in his 80s gave Georgetown a block of appreciated stock, thereby avoiding capital gains tax. He kept a much larger holding but left it to the university in his will. 
 Conrad Teitell, a lawyer with Cummings & Lockwood in Stamford, Conn., who represents a number of large charities, outlined trusts that can benefit both donors and charities, generally with significant tax advantages.
 A charitable remainder trust allows people to contribute a large asset that is not producing income -- a home, jewelry or art -- that is then sold by the charity, which is not liable for capital gains tax, and reinvested in assets that provide income for the donor. After the donor's death, the principal, or remainder, goes to the charity. 
 Donors who want to give to charity and be able to pass assets to their heirs might consider a charitable lead annuity trust. It can provide an income stream for charity for a set number of years with the principal going to a child, down the road. ''Government tables tell what the charity's interest is worth, and what the child's interest is worth,'' Mr. Teitell said. The tables change monthly, and the value of the current tax deduction depends on the value of what is put into the trust and the payout rate. 
 Sidney Kess, a New York tax lawyer, said that a special tax provision had been extended for this year. It allows people 70 1/2 or older by the end of the year to give up to $100,000 to eligible charities from an I.R.A. 
 A gift from a tax-deferred account is not deductible, he said, but a direct transfer -- as opposed to taking a distribution and donating it -- will not raise adjusted gross income. That number ripples through returns, often resulting in higher taxes by limiting the amount of deductions that may be taken, or causing a greater amount of Social Security to be taxable because adjusted gross income is now higher. 
 Even people who are looking at their withered stock portfolios in dismay may be able to give. Say an investor paid $70,000 for 1,000 shares of stock. The shares are now trading at just above $2. She could sell the shares, donate the proceeds to charity and have a capital loss of $68,000 to use this year or she could use part this year, plus use $3,000 against ordinary income and carry the balance forward, shielding future capital gains from taxation. 
 Whatever the strategy, ''People who need charity need help now,'' said Professor Droms, who recommended that donors ''dig deeper to give if possible.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIVATE BANKING (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); RELIGION (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); CHILD WELFARE (50%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1059 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: As Brokerages Regroup, the Lines Are Open

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
WATCHING 40 percent of your life savings evaporate in 2008 may have left you reeling -- and angry over the investment advice you have received. But there is an upside to all the turmoil: while smaller firms are lining up to lure you away, big brokerages are trying harder than ever to make sure you stay. Their pitch will probably be a variation on this: let's talk more often.
 ''Clients rarely leave because of bad performance,'' said Susan J. Levine, vice president at the Melior Group, a consultancy in Philadelphia. ''They leave because of bad service -- You didn't call me when the market was tanking; you only call me when you have something for me to look at.'' 
 Ms. Levine said that in a study by her company for a firm that focused on investors with $2 million in investable assets, at least one-quarter of the respondents were unhappy. 
 ''People were angry,'' she said. ''They said, 'I worked hard for this money.' They wanted respect.''
 When the markets were going up, brokerage firms were concentrating on wealthier clients. Now many of those firms are in disarray and wondering about their own futures. Fifty-one percent of Smith Barney is now owned by Morgan Stanley and 49 percent by Citigroup, its former parent. Merrill Lynch is being digested by Bank of America, while Neuberger Berman was spit out of the bankrupt Lehman Brothers and is now an independent company. 
 Such widespread reorganization, with some firms firing brokers and others hiring them, has disrupted continuity and thus made consistent communication -- never easy in the first place -- even harder. So companies are trying new ways to reach out to their customers. 
 ''We are talking to our clients in every proactive and responsive way possible to let them know where they stand, what we think about markets and current events and our thoughts on defensive and opportunistic investing,'' said Alexander Samuelson, a spokesman for Smith Barney. 
 Among other initiatives, he said, the firm has used an intranet site to post the information financial advisers need to answer clients' questions. And it has begun inviting clients to listen in on weekly conference calls with well-known investment managers and economists.
 The wealth management divisions of Bank of America and Merrill Lynch, still operating separately, have employed similar strategies. ''We have further increased the frequency of communication during this challenging time,'' said Jon Goldstein, a spokesman for Bank of America. One example was a webcast in January that focused on the state of the markets and attracted 9,000 clients.
 In spite of these efforts, there is still plenty of anecdotal evidence that clients feel neglected. Matt Doyle, senior investment consultant at CapTrust Financial Advisors in Tampa, Fla., recalled a client who had come to him after seeing $2 million become $1 million at a big brokerage firm. 
 ''He said: 'It wasn't the fact that I was down. It was the fact that I was down 50 percent without a phone call,' '' Mr. Doyle said.
 CapTrust sells itself on the personal attention it gives to each client, but with minimum investments of $1 million it gets by with fewer, larger accounts.
 One midsize adviser has resurrected a crisis communication strategy that it used at the start of the Iraq war in 2003, sending out weekly market reports. After the market collapse last year, PNC Bank, based in Pittsburgh, added monthly conference calls. The first one in September drew 1,200 clients, three times what the company had expected. 
 PNC does not plan to slow down, said James P. Dunigan, executive vice president of the wealth management division.
 ''Our point of view is, we won't take a breath even when the market has improved -- that's when we need to ramp up our efforts,'' he said. ''This time there will be a lot of money in motion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LET'S TALK: James Dunigan, a PNC Bank vice president, and Susan Levine, Melior Group vice president, at their offices in Philadelphia.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); INTRANETS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEUBERGER BERMAN INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1060 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Race for Storied Seat Draws Crowd in Chicago

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The Fifth Congressional District on Chicago's North Side, a Democratic stronghold, has a history of electing larger-than-life representatives -- Dan Rostenkowski, one of the most powerful members of Congress before he pleaded guilty to mail fraud in 1996 and served 15 months in federal prison; Rod R. Blagojevich, the erstwhile governor who was driven from office after skipping his own impeachment trial and faces federal corruption charges; and Rahm Emanuel, the head-knocking former Clinton White House aide who soared to power in the House before stepping down to become chief of staff to President Obama.
 Now, voters in the district are preparing to choose their next representative, and the race is a free-for-all that has drawn a disparate field of 23 candidates, some with no political experience. 
 ''How do you follow Rostenkowski and Blagojevich and Emanuel?'' asked David N. Wasserman, who studies House races for The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter. ''What will this person be notorious for?'' 
 In a special primary on Tuesday, voters will choose among 12 candidates on the Democratic ballot, six on the Republican ballot and five for the Green Party. Whoever wins the Democratic primary is all but certain to win the special general election on April 7. 
 There is no anointed successor to Mr. Emanuel, and no clear front-runner has emerged. The Democratic establishment, perhaps reluctant to appear too heavy-handed in the post-Blagojevich era, could not agree on a single candidate and made no endorsement. Neither has Mayor Richard M. Daley nor Mr. Emanuel. That has left ward leaders to go their separate ways, and labor unions have split over their backing. 
 ''In this election, not being endorsed is better than being endorsed, because of the toxic political situation,'' said Russ Stewart, who writes a local political column for the Nadig newspapers in Chicago.
 The eclectic collection of candidates includes an eye surgeon, a marketing consultant, an airline pilot, a doctor who was born in Poland, a labor lawyer, a psychiatrist who immigrated from Cuba, a college lecturer and economist, and four local elected officials.
 The elected officials are garnering the most attention, each having a power base, however small, from which to raise money, send direct mail and call on volunteers.
 The only woman among the officials is State Representative Sara Feigenholtz, who is pushing health care. The others are State Representative John Fritchey, who is focusing on the economy and government reform; Patrick O'Connor, an alderman and ally of Mr. Daley; and Mike Quigley, a Cook County commissioner who advocates government reform and has been endorsed by The Chicago Tribune and Sun-Times. Two Democrats running as outsiders, Tom Geoghegan, a labor lawyer who is a favorite in the liberal blogosphere, and Charles Wheelan, an economist, have also won notice. But not one of the candidates is a household name.
 Whoever wins the election will rank last in seniority among the 435 House members in Washington. But simply by holding this Chicago seat, that person will surely have the ear of Mr. Emanuel and, as a result, President Obama. Mr. Wasserman, of the Cook report, said the storied seat was the House equivalent of the Senate seat recently vacated by Hillary Rodham Clinton in New York and given by the governor to Kirsten Gillibrand, a relatively unknown member of Congress. 
 ''This is why Gillibrand is dealing with a stature gap,'' Mr. Wasserman said. ''She has to prove she can be the big persona that New Yorkers have come to expect, and whoever wins this House seat will be expected to produce for the district in big ways and be a loud voice.''
 So far, the contenders for the seat have been mostly loud, especially as the primary enters its final days. 
 The recent scandal involving Mr. Blagojevich -- and the ongoing challenges to the legitimacy of his appointment of Roland W. Burris to the Senate seat formerly held by President Obama -- inspired most of the candidates to try to position themselves as reformers. Now they are battling over who is the true reformer, fueling an increasingly acrimonious debate that Rich Miller, author of Capitol Fax Blog, which covers Illinois politics, calls a ''circular firing-squad bloodbath.''
 When the Service Employees International Union said it would spend $250,000 for television commercials for Ms. Feigenholtz, for example, Mr. Fritchey dismissed the move as ''the same strategy that they used to elect Rod Blagojevich.''
 No one dares to predict how many voters will turn out. ''It's such a strange race, and there aren't many models,'' said Zachary Cook, a political scientist at DePaul University.
 But if voter interest is low, the interest among candidates is high.
 ''It's one of the few opportunities for elected officials to move up, and a lot of the others see this as an opportunity to jump into national politics,'' said Dick Simpson, a former alderman who ran unsuccessfully against Mr. Rostenkowski in the 1990s, and now heads the political science department at the University of Illinois in Chicago. 
 ''Besides,'' Mr. Simpson said, ''it wasn't clear who all the candidates were going to be, and everybody figured they had a chance.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative John Fritchey, top, State Representative Sara Feigenholtz, left, and Mike Quigley, a Cook County commissioner, are among 23 candidates in Tuesday's special primary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SETH PERLMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
LEFT, BONNIE TRAFELET/CHICAGO TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 M. SPENCER GREEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); LAWYERS (74%); COUNTIES (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); FUNDRAISING (65%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); LIBERAL MEDIA (62%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (61%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1061 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Address: The Reviews Are In

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Time of Reckoning'' (editorial, Feb. 25):
 On Tuesday night, listening to President Obama, I heard in one short hour Mr. Obama give all Americans three vitally important things, something that our former president could not do in eight years: hope for their future, confidence in their government, and a sense that he really does ''get it.'' I have not felt this positive about government in a decade.
 There is no question that we are all, to some degree, responsible for the mess we are in. There is also no doubt whatsoever that to climb out of this economic morass we will all have to work together, sacrifice and share. 
 Our president needs every single American also to ''get it.'' Those who have paid their way and been responsible must now support those who have not been. 
 Those who still have the means need to support charities that have been devastated by shrinking donations and devalued endowments. Most important, every member of Congress must now vote his or her conscience, and for once forget partisan politics and obstructionism.
 Henry A. Lowenstein New York, Feb. 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Like The Times and many others, I, too, have been disappointed by President Obama's concessions to the opposition in the name of bipartisanship.
 But his still-lofty approval ratings suggest that in addition to his other strengths, he may also be a bold and calculating politician.
 By demonstrating that even a watered-down stimulus package was not enough to gain Republican support, he is now in a stronger position to assert a truly progressive agenda that can not only revive the economy and help us prepare for 21st-century global competition, but also perhaps re-establish, for generations to come, the government's rightful role in promoting the nation's economic well-being.
 If Gov. Bobby Jindal's pitiful rebuttal of the president's speech is a sample of the opposition he may face in asserting such a role, I'd say success is in the bag. 
 David Kernis Trumbull, Conn., Feb. 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial expresses my own personal views exactly. I, too, would like to see more audacity, the kind expressed by Barack Obama the presidential candidate. 
 I also agree that his desire for bipartisanship is admirable, but he should not permit that desire to undermine his presidency. Perhaps the benefit from a failed attempt at bipartisanship will be the election of candidates to Congress more favorable to his policies in the midterm elections.
 John A. Viteritti Southold, N.Y., Feb. 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Over the last three months I stood by and watched as my two sons, living together as college students, struggled to find part-time work that would supplement their living expenses and afford them the continued ability and desire to live independently. 
 The decline of the economy reflected the decline they witnessed in their day-to-day living, as they slowly became less mobile (because of gas prices), less active (because of budget restraints), and hungry, feeling that they failed themselves and their parents. 
 They became frustrated by the fact that they did all they could to survive on their own, yet it was not enough, and they had no choice but to move home. 
 Yet they became engaged in President Obama's economic address for the first time, and to my delight, both sons shared with me that President Obama inspired them to prevail. The president's message of hope has crossed the generation barrier.
 Kara Frazier Trabuco Canyon, Calif., Feb. 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Big Test'' (column, Feb. 24):
 I appreciate every line of David Brooks's column; each of his concerns is understandable. His conclusions are rational. But he seems to view President Obama's program as an overstressed form of social engineering. It is anything but that. 
 It is an attempt to control and reverse the advancing process of decline of our political, social and economic institutions. The policies rightly recognize that a patchwork or a one-at-a-time solution will not work. 
 Everything converges, so we must attack our problems across a broad spectrum. President Obama recognizes that our various crises -- jobs, banking, housing, health care and education -- are tightly interwoven. To engage one without the others will have no effect. 
 It is the citizen's role to support the effort with positive energy and patience.
 Harold K. Goldstein New York, Feb. 24, 2009
 To the Editor:
 On President Obama's multiple initiatives aimed at restoring and transforming the United States economy, David Brooks writes, ''If they mostly fail, then liberalism will suffer a grievous blow, and conservatives will be called upon to restore order and sanity.''
 Excuse me, but didn't ''conservative'' stewardship during the last eight years of a previously sound economy result in the very disorder in need of repair today?
 Michael Colangelo New York, Feb. 24, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CHARITIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BOBBY JINDAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1062 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Sets Out Bank Test Guidelines

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and ERIC DASH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration ordered the nation's 19 biggest banks on Wednesday to undergo stress tests to check whether they could hold up if the economy deteriorated further.
 But analysts say the administration's worst projections, which it describes as unlikely, are not much more dire than what many private forecasters already expect.
 According to the new Treasury Department guidelines, the banks would have to assume that the economy contracts by 3.3 percent this year and remains almost flat in 2010. They would also have to assume that housing prices fall another 22 percent this year and that unemployment would shoot to 8.9 percent this year and hit 10.3 percent in 2010. 
 ''I don't think they are harsh enough,'' said David Hendler, an analyst at CreditSights, who said the dire projection was itself too optimistic about the growth that would be generated from President Obama's stimulus program. ''That would be a pleasant outcome, but you have to plan for the worst.''
 The average outlook of private-sector forecasters envisions the economy shrinking by 2 percent this year and unemployment peaking just below 9 percent in 2010. 
 The average forecast for housing prices is a decline of 14 percent this year and an additional 4 percent next year. 
 Recent forecasts by the Federal Reserve and most private forecasters have undershot the severity of the downturn. 
 Big banks -- those with more than $100 billion in assets -- will have to carry out supervised analyses by the end of April of how much their capital would be depleted under the Treasury Department assumptions. If federal banking regulators conclude that a bank would not have enough capital under those circumstances, the bank would have to raise the extra money within six months or get it from the government in exchange for ceding a potentially big ownership stake.
 The Treasury Department also laid out the terms on which it would offer banks additional capital, and the formula could make the government a major shareholder in banks like Citigroup with only a modest additional infusion of capital.
 The Treasury said that it would provide new capital in exchange for shares of preferred stock that could be converted to shares of common stock at a price slightly below the level at which the shares traded on Feb. 9. For many of the big banks, that price would be slightly higher than the quoted prices today, but still at rock-bottom levels compared with just one year ago.
 In effect, analysts said, the administration's offer of additional capital could set a floor on share prices of the major banks, which will now be able to raise more money at lower cost if the market value of their shares dropped below the levels on Feb. 9.
 Administration officials, insisting that they want to avoid full-fledged bank nationalizations, left themselves wide discretion on how to interpret the results of the stress tests. 
 In a telephone conference call with reporters, officials from the Fed and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said there would be no simple measure for ''passing'' or ''failing'' a test, and provided only vague descriptions of how they would interpret the results. 
 ''It sure sounds to me like they are designing this to make it sound like the banking system is in great shape,'' said Paul J. Miller, an analyst at Friedman, Billings Ramsey, a brokerage firm that specializes in bank stocks.
 Administration officials said their intention was simply to make sure that the nation's big banks would remain adequately capitalized even if the economic recession is substantially worse than expected. 
 They said their goal was to increase confidence of investors and depositors in the big banks, providing tangible evidence that the institutions would have enough money, whether they had to raise it from private investors or get it from taxpayers.
 Administration officials said there was no cap on how much money a single institution could obtain, and they declined to estimate how much money the government would end up injecting before the crisis was over. Banks and other ''qualified financial institutions,'' which now includes investment banks and insurance companies that are part of bank holding companies, can start applying for more money immediately.
 The Treasury Department has already used or allocated the first $350 billion of the $700 billion financial rescue program that Congress approved last fall. 
 Many analysts say the administration will have to ask Congress to authorize additional spending, though administration officials have declined to make any predictions thus far.
 Christopher Whalen, managing director at Institutional Risk Analytics, said Citigroup and other major banks would almost certainly become insolvent once they absorb the full brunt of losses from the economic downturn.
 ''The stress test is about politics,'' Mr. Whalen said. ''The O.C.C. and the Fed already know the answer. The answer is that we're going to have to come to a decision: are we going to put in more equity or are we going to resolve the banks through bankruptcy?''
 Even as Treasury officials laid the ground rules for getting banks through the current crisis, President Obama met with lawmakers in Congress to begin discussions about a broader overhaul of how the financial regulatory system oversees risk in the future.
 Emerging from the meeting, Mr. Obama said the first principle of a new system should be that financial institutions ''that pose serious risks to the markets should be subject to serious oversight by the government.'' 
 He also said that the regulatory system should be strengthened to withstand major stresses and that the government should take steps to rebuild trust in markets by promoting transparency. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama leaving Wednesday's Oval Office meeting with his economic advisers and members of Congress.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); COMMON STOCK (66%); PREFERRED STOCK (61%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1063 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Year of Living Dangerously

BYLINE: By MICHAEL E. O'HANLON and KENNETH M. POLLACK. 
Michael E. O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Kenneth M. Pollack is the director of research at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 THE Iraq war isn't over. And while President Obama's apparent decision to withdraw the bulk of American troops by August 2010 is not necessarily a mistake, it cannot be carried out rigidly. If all continues to go well, it should be eminently feasible; if not,the administration will have to show the strategic wisdom to slow down as needed to deal with problems. 
 Having just returned from a trip to the country arranged by the top American commander there, Gen. Ray Odierno, we agree that Iraq continues to make tremendous strides, thanks to American assistance and, increasingly, the efforts of Iraqi politicians and security forces. But both those ready to dust off the infamous ''Mission Accomplished'' banner and declare victory and those who continue to see Iraq as an inherent disaster that must simply be abandoned have to realize that continued American involvement will be crucial for several more years. 
 Young democracies are fragile entities. Political scientists generally agree that achieving a peaceful and credible second round of elections is critical in putting a new democracy on a path toward stability, because such elections test whether the country can accomplish a nonviolent transfer of power. 
 Iraq is holding its second round of real elections this year. It just concluded extremely successful provincial votes, and national parliamentary elections are to follow. Iraq's calendar this year is also jam-packed with other important political events. If the United States can help the Iraqis secure even modestly positive outcomes for these events, we will have gone a long way toward realizing our goals of sustainable stability in Iraq and bringing most of our troops home next year.
 Iraq is no longer convulsed by the chaos, sectarianism and terrorism that were driving it into all-out civil war in 2006. To be sure, friction remains, most notably in the ethnically diverse city of Mosul in the north, where coalition forces have only recently been reinforced to the point where they can conduct the kind of counterinsurgency campaign that secured the rest of the country. Unfortunately, they are racing against the clock to do so, since the recently signed security agreement between Baghdad and Washington requires American combat forces to leave Iraq's cities by June 30. 
 But the main challenge now is that some key political players, strengthened by Iraq's enormous recent progress, are less interested in moving their country forward than in using every tool at their disposal to put themselves in advantageous positions after the American withdrawal. Worse still, some -- perhaps many -- are doing so by exploiting the immaturity of the political process and the ambiguities in Iraq's constitution. 
 Iraq has several important challenges that could strain its political system over the next year. They include the return of up to four million displaced people to their homes; the release of thousands of people detained by coalition forces, some of them surely dangerous; the continued search for permanent jobs for the largely Sunni Sons of Iraq, whose actions against the insurgents in Anbar Province were a key to the success of the ''surge''; falling oil prices that will hamper the government's ability to pay its workers; and the more general tasks of increasing oil exports, employment and the quality of life for Iraqis.
 Perhaps the most vivid demonstration of the problems Iraq faces is the enormous tension brewing between the autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government, led by Massoud Barzani, and the central government led by Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. During the years of warfare between Sunni and Shiite Arabs, the Kurdish issue lay dormant. But now it has roared back to the forefront. Nearly everyone we spoke with in the area this month -- Kurds, Arabs, Americans and others -- described the situation as explosive and the enmity between Mr. Barzani and Prime Minister Maliki as ferocious. 
 The Kurdish difficulties do not revolve around suicide bombers, visions of seventh-century caliphates, disdain for the United States or pure sectarian hatred as in the Sunni-Shiite civil war. They concern the cold, hard issues of land and oil and cash, as well as the distribution of power between Iraq's center and its regions and provinces. 
 In addition to the three provinces that are run by the Kurdish regional government, the Kurds claim lands in three other Iraqi provinces, including the emotionally charged and oil-rich region of Kirkuk. To back up these claims, and because the Iraqi government previously had been unable to secure much of northern Iraq, the Kurds deployed their pesh merga fighters in these disputed places -- often originally at Baghdad's request. They have also used their considerable political powers in much of the area to undo the effects of Saddam Hussein's brutal policy of Arabization of Kurdish lands. Meanwhile, they have exploited ambiguities in the Constitution to strike deals with foreign firms for oil wells within their three provinces, much to the displeasure of Baghdad. 
 These tensions nearly led to violence last summer in the ethnically mixed city of Khanaqin, which lies outside the current boundaries of Kurdistan, in Diyala Province, but was under the control of the pesh merga. Prime Minister Maliki, emboldened by recent battlefield successes of Iraq's Army and police against Shiite militias in Basra and elsewhere, apparently decided to put the Kurds in their place as well. 
 Mr. Maliki deployed army forces to Khanaqin, only to have them run right into a standoff with the pesh merga troops. Ultimately, cooler heads prevailed, but it should be noted that many of those cooler heads were American -- the United States troops who were partnered with the Iraqi Army formations ran interference between the Iraqi Army units and the Kurdish soldiers and brokered a peaceful resolution.
 Today other crises loom. An oil field in Kurdistan developed by a Norwegian company is poised to begin production in March. It is not clear whether the Kurds will contribute the revenue from the field to the common Iraqi oil pot, as the central government demands, or will claim the proceeds entirely for themselves. Not only does Mr. Maliki view any Kurdish effort to go it alone on oil as unacceptable, he may also sense that inflating it as a campaign issue could help him and his Dawa Party in parliamentary voting this year. 
 And while key leaders from Mr. Maliki's government, various parliamentary opposition parties, and the Kurds all insist that they plan to resolve their differences peacefully, several members of the American military command for Northern Iraq warned us during conversations in Iraq last week that the officers of the newly forming Iraqi 12th Infantry Division have repeatedly stated that once their unit is ready, they plan to occupy their entire area of operations -- which includes Kirkuk. The pesh merga fighters, of course, are just as adamant that this would be unacceptable. 
 While the United Nations has been putting together a grand plan for resolving the Kurdish issues, it cannot impose a solution -- and under the terms of the new security agreement, neither can the United States. But just because Washington no longer holds viceregal authority does not mean it is powerless. America's military forces, which increasingly serve as peacekeepers, and its commitment of nation-building tools (including provincial reconstruction teams and technical advisers in the Iraqi government) still give American officials tremendous influence. Washington must employ this leverage deftly to help Iraqi Arabs and Kurds (and Turkmens and others) overcome their differences.
 The Obama administration has been handling the Iraq war pragmatically so far. And while announcing a timetable poses a serious risk, the details of Mr. Obama's plan leaked to the press this week are promising, especially leaving behind a large residual force including trainers and quick-reacting ''maneuver units'' and slowing the drawdown by three months relative to what he had promised on the campaign trail. Those few months are vital, as they should give the Iraqis adequate time to form their new government before the American troop levels are vastly diminished. Ideally, whatever he announces now, Mr. Obama will remain flexible, and slow the pace next year if necessary.
 GIVEN Iraq's strategic significance, the mission ceased to be a ''war of choice'' the moment American forces crossed the border in March 2003. Now we have no choice but to see Iraq through to stability. 
 It is worth remembering that our current economic disaster started with a great rise of oil prices from 2004 to 2007, which then helped set off the mortgage and credit meltdowns. Although the increase in oil prices had more to do with inadequate refining capacity and increased demand from China and India than with instability of the Middle East, previous recessions have resulted from the area's political calamities; it is easy to imagine others in the future. 
 In addition, we cannot overlook Iraq's enormous regional significance. President Obama has rightly insisted that the Bush administration committed cardinal sins by failing to engage Syria and Iran in its regional strategy and by remaining aloof from the Israeli-Palestinian and Lebanese conflicts for too long. But any broader Middle Eastern agenda is hostage to the situation in Mesopotamia. If Iraq slips back into chaos, President Obama is going to find little desire among Jordanians, Saudis, Syrians and Turks for taking the hard steps to forge a durable peace with Israel -- or among Iranians to reach a rapprochement. 
 In the end, it is up to the Iraqis to make their nation peaceful and productive -- we should not baby-sit Iraq through all of its problems as a young democracy. But it faces one last crucially tense period in the coming 12 to 18 months. American interests argue strongly for using all the leverage we have gained among Iraqis during six years of intense partnership to help Iraq through its ''year of transitions'' -- then we can bring our troops home quickly, but responsibly.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALAIN PILON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); RAY ODIERNO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1064 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA TO CALL FOR HIGHER TAX ON TOP EARNERS

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and ROBERT PEAR; John M. Broder, Carl Hulse and Thom Shanker contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama will propose further tax increases on the affluent to help pay for his promise to make health care more accessible and affordable, calling for stricter limits on the benefits of itemized deductions taken by the wealthiest households, administration officials said Wednesday. 
 The tax proposal, coming after recent years in which wealth has become more concentrated at the top of the income scale, introduces a politically volatile edge to the Congressional debate over Mr. Obama's domestic priorities.
 The president will also propose, in the 10-year budget he is to release Thursday, to use revenues from the centerpiece of his environmental policy -- a plan under which companies must buy permits to exceed pollution emission caps -- to pay for an extension of a two-year tax credit that benefits low-wage and middle-income people.
 The combined effect of the two revenue-raising proposals, on top of Mr. Obama's existing plan to roll back the Bush-era income tax reductions on households with income exceeding $250,000 a year, would be a pronounced move to redistribute wealth by reimposing a larger share of the tax burden on corporations and the most affluent taxpayers. 
 Administration officials said Mr. Obama would propose to reduce the value of itemized tax deductions for everyone in the top income tax bracket, 35 percent, and many of those in the 33 percent bracket -- roughly speaking, starting at $250,000 in annual income for a married couple. 
 Under existing law, the tax benefit of itemizing deductions rises with a taxpayer's marginal tax bracket (the bracket that applies to the last dollar of income). For example, $10,000 in itemized deductions reduces tax liability by $3,500 for someone in the 35 percent bracket. 
 Mr. Obama would allow a saving of only $2,800 -- as if the person were in the 28 percent bracket.
 The White House says it is unfair for high-income people to get a bigger tax break than middle-income people for claiming the same deductions or making the same charitable contributions.
 The officials said the resulting increase in revenues, estimated at $318 billion over 10 years, would account for about half of a $634 billion ''reserve fund'' that Mr. Obama will set aside in his budget to address changes in the health care system. The other half would come from proposed cost savings in Medicare, Medicaid and other health programs.
 In a document summarizing its proposals, the White House said it would finance coverage for the uninsured in part by ''rebalancing the tax code so that the wealthiest pay more.''
 Mr. Obama's blueprint, which will project spending and revenues for the next decade, will flesh out the president's thinking on his energy plans both to cap the emissions of gases, particularly carbon dioxide, that are blamed for climate change and to spur development of nonpolluting energy alternatives. 
 The budget will show the government beginning by 2012 to collect billions of dollars in revenues from selling permits to businesses that emit the polluting gases, assuming the president's energy initiative becomes law as soon as this year, officials said.
 Because utilities and other businesses would presumably pass on their costs to customers, Mr. Obama will propose to use most of the government's revenues from the permits to finance an extension of the new ''Making Work Pay'' tax credit beyond the two years covered in the $787 billion economic recovery plan that was just enacted.
 That tax relief, the administration will argue, will offset households' higher costs for utilities and other products and services from businesses' passing on their permit expenses.
 That tax credit annually will provide $400 to low-wage and middle-income workers or $800 to couples; Mr. Obama would like to increase those figures to $500 and $1,000. The credit phases out for those with incomes above $75,000 a year and for couples with incomes of more than $150,000; no benefit would go to individuals with more than $100,000 income and couples with $200,000. 
 The tax credit will begin showing up in the form of lower withholding for eligible workers beginning April 1. 
 The remainder of the projected revenues from the permits will finance Mr. Obama's campaign promise for $15 billion a year over 10 years to subsidize research and development of alternative energy sources, officials said. The stimulus package included a multibillion-dollar down payment to develop a national electricity grid to harness and distribute energy from such sources, including wind farms. 
 Behind the numbers in Mr. Obama's first budget is one of the most far-reaching domestic agendas in years, and at a time when the president and Congress are already grappling with an economic crisis worse than any in decades. The environmental permits would not take effect until 2012, at which point the administration expects the economy to have recovered. Similarly, some of the tax increases would not take effect until 2011.
 Democratic Congressional leaders promised to push the agenda, which parallels their own. ''By the end of this year, I want to do something significant dealing with health care,'' the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, told reporters.
 The tax proposals, however, could galvanize Republican opposition and give conservatives a concrete target for taking on Mr. Obama, who despite his political strength could find some members of his own party reluctant to embrace tax increases.
 Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, who has been drafting a health plan, predicted in an interview that the Senate could pass legislation by its August recess. Mr. Baucus acknowledged that ''there has to be revenue'' to offset the costs of expanded coverage initially, but he did not endorse the proposal for limiting wealthy taxpayers' deductions. 
 ''There will be lots of options to pay it, not necessarily that one,'' Mr. Baucus said.
 He would not say what revenue options he would support. But he said tax increases of some kind would not prevent some Senate Republicans from aligning with Democrats to pass a health plan.
 In the House, the Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, telegraphed his side's opposition to any tax increases. 
 ''Everyone agrees that all Americans deserve access to affordable health care,'' Mr. Boehner said in a statement, ''but is increasing taxes during an economic recession, especially on small businesses, the right way to accomplish that goal?'' 
 Mr. Boehner likewise criticized Mr. Obama's cap-and-trade emissions permits proposal, saying, ''Cap-and-trade is code for increasing taxes and killing American jobs, and that's the last thing we need to do during these troubled economic times.''
 To finance health care reform, administration officials suggested to senior aides in Congress on Wednesday that revenues could be raised by ending the policy of excluding the value of employer-provided health insurance from income taxes. 
 But the officials emphasized that the administration was not advocating that option, which not only is anathema to some in organized labor and business but also conflicts with Mr. Obama's position in last fall's presidential campaign.
 The administration is proposing a number of other politically contentious ways of offsetting the costs of the health care initiative. Mr. Obama wants to require drug companies to give bigger discounts, or rebates, to Medicaid, the health program for low-income people. 
 Drug makers now must provide Medicaid with a discount equal to at least 15.1 percent of the average manufacturer price for a brand-name product. Mr. Obama wants to require discounts of at least 22.1 percent. Pharmaceutical companies have strenuously resisted such proposals in recent years. 
 Mr. Obama will also propose cutting Medicare payments to health insurance companies that provide comprehensive care to more than 10 million of the 44 million Medicare beneficiaries. He says he can save $175 billion over 10 years with a new competitive bidding system, under which payments to private Medicare Advantage plans would be based on an average of the bids they submit to Medicare. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: POTENTIAL TAX TARGETS: To generate revenue for his far-reaching plans for universal health care and environmental policy, President Obama will propose a variety of tax changes, many of which are aimed at the affluent. (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); MEDICAID (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); MEDICARE (60%); CHARITABLE GIVING (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1065 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2112 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: FEBRUARY 26, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 Memo From Cairo
 Disentangling a Loaded Term
 A chasm in perception that centers on the word terrorism was widened over Gaza, with many in the Arab world seeing little distinction between Hamas's shooting rockets into civilian areas of Israel and Israel's shooting rockets into civilian areas of Gaza. The battle over the term has become a proxy for the larger issues that divide Washington and the Arab public. Above, a funeral procession in a Palestinian village for a farmer whose family said was killed by the Israeli military. PAGE A8 
 IRAQI OFFICIAL DETAINED, THEN FREED
 A leading Sunni lawmaker accused of ordering sectarian killings, kidnappings and the bombing of Parliament in 2007 was detained by the Iraqi authorities after his flight to Jordan was ordered to return to Baghdad. The lawmaker, Mohammad al-Daini, was promptly released after being led off the plane by security officers, and his whereabouts were unknown. PAGE A10 
 IRAQ TROOPS MAY REMAIN INTO 2010
 President Obama's planned Iraq troop drawdown would leave the bulk of American forces in place until early next year, while some units would remain in place beyond a declared August 2010 target for withdrawal, officials said. PAGE A10 
 BUILDUP AIMS AT ROADSIDE BOMBS
 As part of its buildup in Afghanistan, the Pentagon plans to deploy billions of dollars in heavily armored vehicles, spy planes, jamming technology and even experimental ground-penetrating radar to defend troops from increasingly lethal roadside bombs. PAGE A11 
 C.I.A. HEAD CITES PAKISTAN SUCCESS
 Leon E. Panetta, the new director of the Central Intelligence Agency, said that the agency's campaign against militants in Pakistan's tribal areas was the ''most effective weapon'' the Obama administration had to combat Al Qaeda's top leadership. PAGE A11 
 ZIMBABWE'S LEADERS MATCH WILES
 Two weeks after Zimbabwe's opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, was sworn in as prime minister and joined President Robert Mugabe in governing, the archrivals are openly matching wits in a struggle to dominate the political landscape of a country whose people endure hunger, cholera and political repression. PAGE A12 
 GUARDS REBEL IN BANGLADESH
 A mutiny by paramilitary border security forces erupted in a daylong gun battle in the heart of Bangladesh's capital, trapping schoolchildren for hours and posing the biggest test yet to a newly elected government trying to re-establish civilian control after two years of army-backed emergency rule. Some 50 people were killed, and at least eight were wounded. PAGE A12 
 National
 CALLS FOR HELP ARE INCREASING
 As Operators Rush to Pick Up
 Call centers for public assistance in Florida, as well as others around the country, have seen a 40 percent increase in calls for help since last year. The rise has led to requests for more operators to tend to callers in need, all of whom have stories and fears and call for very different reasons. Page A14 
 COURT RULES AGAINST MONUMENT
 A public park in Utah will not have to make room for a monument from a religion called Summum, the Supreme Court ruled. The religion tried to force the park to accept its monument under its First Amendment right to free speech. Page A14 
 CALORIES, ANY WAY YOU CAN
 It turns out that it doesn't really matter how you diet as long as you, well, diet. The largest weight-loss study, conducted by The New England Journal of Medicine, found that it did not matter if dieters counted carbs, protein or fat. The results were pretty much the same in the end. What was important was the calorie count. Page A14 
 Stallone Casts Schwarzenegger A14 
 U.S. IN LARGEST STRIKE ON CARTEL
 Federal authorities have mounted their biggest assault on one of Mexico's largest cartels, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said. So far, 750 people have been arrested and tons of narcotics have been seized over the last 21 months. Page A16 
 Obituaries
 VICTOR ZARNOWITZ, 89
 A noted economist and expert on business cycles, he traced the history of economic predictions for decades and often found the forecasting faulty. Page A26 
 New York
 PATERSON'S OVERHAULS THE STAFF
 Of His Battered Administration
 Gov. David A. Paterson's tenure has been fraught with setbacks. His approval ratings keep dropping, and he is struggling to wrangle a budget amid a fiscal crisis. In an effort to rebuild his administration, he has organized a shake-up and is recruiting from the Clinton network. Page A22 
 THE EMPTY WHITE WAY
 The latest of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's city planning experiments will close several blocks of Broadway around Times Square and Herald Square, said several people briefed on the plan. The closure will create a walkway for what essentially would be a large pedestrian mall. Page A23 
 Business
 A STRESS TEST FOR TROUBLED BANKS
 Could Mean a Tighter Leash
 Federal officials announced that 19 major banks would undergo a stress test, to see if they could survive another big financial drop. If they fail, the banks would have six months to raise money or receive more capital injections in the form of securities that could convert to common stock. That stock, if converted, would grant the government voter's rights and greater influence in the company. Page B1 
 State of the Art 
 Google's Lesser-Known Gems
 Google put itself on the map with its Search box, followed by other online triumphs. It did that by being a company full of the world's smartest people and giving them all time to explore their own ideas, David Pogue writes. Here is a list of some lesser-known bright spots. Page B1 
 Circuits B7
 CROOKS SEND OUT MONTHLY STATEMENTS, TOO
 A statement amounts to little more than a piece of paper with numbers these days. It turns out white-collar crooks keep detailed records, too. They make victims like Nancy Brown, above, who lost part of her retirement account to Bernie Madoff, feel better. Page F1 
 WHERE TO PLACE BLAME?
 Remember in September when we were unaware of just how unstable all these financial titans were? Polls taken then revealed that most investors blamed their financial advisers. A poll in January showed a much smaller number of fingers pointed in that direction. But what exactly does your wealth manager owe you? Page F1 
 AN UNEXPECTED BOON
 In a personal -- and positive -- story of the financial world's unpredictability, a frame shop in Connecticut had prepared for and expected the worst. But a new austerity among its clients actually led to a boom in business: People look to spruce up what they already have. Page F2 
 WATCHING A NEW ESTATE TAX
 Barring a legislative bottleneck, a new estate tax law is expected by the end of the year. The Obama administration has said that making the tax permanent and avoiding a repeal is a high priority. But details are unclear, so those creating or updating estate plans should be proactive about reviewing their situations. Page F2 
 You've Sold the Stocks, Now What? F4 
 DONORS ARE HOLDING BACK
 These troubled times are putting a real crimp in philanthropic style. Charities, as much as any business, are hurting as even the ordinarily generous cut back. But for determined donors who want to, there are some ways to help. Page F4 
 Sports
 WOODS RETURNS AS HE LEFT: A WINNER
 Tiger Woods played in his first tournament since winning the 2008 United States Open and having knee surgery. For Mr. Woods, victory was as simple as playing the game he loves. He let everybody else dissect his performance, saying it felt good just to play the game again. Page B11 
 LIDGE SEES ROOM TO IMPROVE
 As the closer for the Philadelphia Phillies last year, Brad Lidge attained what few professionals do: perfection. As he prepares for this season, he is trying to do even more to get ready, and hoping he can walk that line again. Page B13 
 Arts
 AS 'ER' WINDS DOWN, STORIES,
 Scrubs and 180 Gallons of Blood
 A run of 15 years will end on April 2 as the doors of County General Hospital close for good. In all those years of shifting cast members, the crew was the show's one constant. Finally a chance to share their stories about what kept ''ER's'' heart beating, and the amount of scrubs bought and stage blood spilled. Page C1 
 Abroad 
 The Culture of Art in Romania
 Nearly 20 years ago, Romania's people overthrew the Communist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu and executed him and his wife. A court has ruled to return art owned by Mr. Ceausescu to his son, now 60. Judging from people's muted reactions, Michael Kimmelman writes, they've moved beyond that history. Or maybe it's just a reflection of their attitudes on art. Page C1 
 Dance Review 
 A New Expression of Arab Dance
 The Kennedy Center in Washington has unveiled ''Arabesque: Arts of the Arab World,'' of which the dance troupe Cie2k--far is an essential part. The Moroccan group does away with traditional ideas of Muslim dance cheerfully and immediately, Alastair Macaulay writes. It made him yearn to see more than just one performance. Page C1 Arts, Briefly C2 
 Television Review 
 Easy Listening, Talking, Playing
 Chris Isaak's amiable, easy nature is in his music and his stage persona, Mike Hale writes. His new show, ''The Chris Isaak Hour,'' on the Bio channel, is a sort of ''Inside the Actor's Studio'' for musicians. It is a nonthreatening place for them to drop by, talk a little and then play a few songs. Page C2 
 Home
 The Fix
 Bigger, Stronger, Faster, New Disposals Answer Critics
 The garbage disposal of the future is here. More powerful and quieter, the disposals may help resolve longstanding disposal-related grievances. For example, some buildings in New York do not allow disposals for fear they will clog old plumbing. But new state-of-the art disposals have shredders that produce finer grindings that are less likely to clog pipes. PAGE D2 
 Currents D3 
 Shopping With
 Furnishings to Lift Spirits
 On a recent visit to Manhattan, Sam Lemheney, who designs the Philadelphia Flower Show, went shopping for furnishings and decorative accessories, such as the marbles above. PAGE D4 
 On Location
 Indian Modern Redux
 In 2006, Namita Luthra, a public interest lawyer who was born in Chandigarh, India, and her husband saw an unfinished apartment in the East Village and immediately fell for the long, clean lines of the split-level space. Now, $300,000 later, the empty shell has been transformed into their version of a modernist temple. PAGE D5 
 Q & A
 Not Every Tree Can Be Bonsai
 Q: I bought a bonsai tree -- a juniper -- but it's not doing well in my apartment. What can I do? PAGE D7 
 The Green Home: Detergents D7
 In the Garden: Orchids D7 
 Style
 AS THE RECESSION REMAINS, THE BOHEMIAN SPRAWL RETREATS
 The tide of gentrification is receding, beaten back by the economic downturn. That Whole Foods on the corner? Now it's just a regular grocery store. Residents of neighborhoods settled by the young creative class, like Eagle Rock, Calif., worry that they may be losing their bohemian utopia. PAGE E1 
 Dress Codes E1 
 Children Suffer Fears of 'Bad' Food E1 
 Wife/Mother/Worker/Spy E2 
 Critical Shopper E4 
 WALKING IN THE COLD
 Keeping up with a walking regimen is somewhat harder when the mercury drops. PAGE E8 
 Editorial
 MR. OBAMA'S ENERGY FUTURE
 During his run for the White House, Barack Obama pledged to transform the way Americans produce and consume energy. Such promises come cheap on the campaign trail. In the real world they cost money and political capital. This week, Mr. Obama made clear that he was ready to spend both to combat climate change and reduce this country's dependence on fossil fuels. Page A30 
 PROMISE OF REFORM IN SAUDI ARABIA
 Saudi Arabia is notoriously change-averse. But four years after assuming the crown, King Abdullah may finally be ready to fulfill his promise to lead his country toward greater tolerance and modernity. Page A30
 NICKELS TO CLEAN NEW YORK
 Only rarely does one solution solve a lot of problems. One that could is New York's so-called Bigger Better Bottle Bill. Page A30
 Op-Ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 In a dusty corner of eastern Chad, refugees from Darfur are brimming with hope that Washington will back an arrest warrant for Sudan's president, expected next week from the International Criminal Court. Page A31
 GAIL COLLINS
 Washington is putting the dead tree theory of government to the test. Page A31
 IRAQ'S YEAR OF LIVING DANGEROUSLY
 In an Op-Ed article, Michael E. O'Hanlon and Kenneth M. Pollack of the Brookings Institution, who have recently returned from Iraq, write that while President Obama is preparing to withdraw American troops, the war is certainly not over. Page A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ESPIONAGE (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (75%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); HOMICIDE (70%); RADAR SYSTEMS (65%); CALL CENTERS (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CHILDREN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (51%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); BANGLADESH (92%); EGYPT (90%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1066 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: The Dead Tree Theory

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Whenever a president gives a major address, like the one Barack Obama delivered to Congress this week, the opposition party delivers a rejoinder. Which American citizens always ignore. Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal's speech was, therefore, a kind of triumph. So bad, people actually paid attention!
 We will pass over Jindal's delivery, which sounded a little like a junior high schooler's entry into the Chamber of Commerce ''I Speak for Fiscal Restraint'' contest. The content was the thing: a message to the nation that the Republicans were not going to have anything important or useful to say about the current economic crisis. 
 Absent any deep thoughts, the Republicans are going to complain about waste. The high point of Jindal's address came when he laced into ''wasteful spending'' in the stimulus bill, and used as an example a $140 million appropriation for keeping an eye on the volcanoes in places like Alaska, where one is currently rumbling.
 ''Instead of monitoring volcanoes, what Congress should be monitoring is the eruption of spending in Washington, D.C.,'' Jindal claimed. 
 I don't know about you, but my reaction was: Wow, what a great stimulus plan. The most wasteful thing in it is volcano monitoring.
 Louisiana has gotten $130 billion in post-Katrina aid. How is it that the stars of the Republican austerity movement come from the states that suck up the most federal money? Taxpayers in New York send way more to Washington than they get back so more can go to places like Alaska and Louisiana. Which is fine, as long as we don't have to hear their governors bragging about how the folks who elected them want to keep their tax money to themselves. Of course they do! That's because they're living off ours.
 O.K., I'm done.
 The Republicans can't try to convince the country their ideas are better because of that intellectual bankruptcy problem. All they can do is make Barack Obama's programs look feckless, plunging everyone into so much despair that by next summer the public will be ready to go live in caves and eat squirrel stew.
 The waste argument is a perpetual winner because there will always be some. Years ago, when I was a reporter, I remember getting a call from a woman in the Bronx who was screaming: ''They're over on Moshulu Parkway planting dead trees!'' Sure enough, a city work crew was digging holes along the side of the street and carefully sticking in brown and dried-up pieces of foliage. The men claimed the trees had simply lost their leaves for the winter -- an explanation somewhat undermined by the fact that they were evergreens.
 I'm telling you this because on Tuesday I was talking with a high-ranking Obama administration official about the stimulus plan. ''There will be a dead tree planted, figuratively speaking,'' he said somberly. ''That will happen.''
 How could it not? Much of the stimulus money is being channeled through state and local governments, through tens of thousands of governors, mayors, county executives, transportation commissioners, parks superintendents and so on. Try to imagine the person in that pyramid with the lowest I.Q., and you'll understand that there's a dead-tree planter hidden in there somewhere. 
 The White House is trying to overcome this problem with a Transparency and Accountability Board, overseen by Vice President Joe Biden. It is supposed to reassure the public that the stimulus money isn't being wasted. But some people within the administration are arguing that that isn't enough, that the government needs to bombard people with examples of what's being done right -- like holding big rallies for all the schoolteachers whose jobs are saved by the stimulus.
 Or -- and I swear to you this is a real idea -- inventing a kind of stimulus logo, like the old National Recovery Administration blue eagle, that could be posted on every federally funded project, as one official explained, ''to show the public exactly what we're doing.''
 Let us skip over the fact that the National Recovery Administration is best remembered as the part of the New Deal that didn't work. Because we are instantly fascinated by the idea of designing that logo. How about:
 Erp the Economic Recovery Portuguese Water Dog -- Sasha and Malia's incoming White House pet, setting a good example by taking on a second job to help support the family.
 Isadore the Infrastructure Improvement Iguana
 Arnie the Ant and Ginny the Grasshopper -- Both wearing overalls and carrying shovels, symbols that troubled times fall equally hard on the party animals and the serious guys who saved their money and invested it with Bernie Madoff.
 Petey the Penguin -- Don't want to go with another eagle. But everybody likes penguins. They march; they don't fly into airplane engines ...
 Joe Biden -- Dressed like a penguin.
 Or, if all else fails, they could just get Bobby Jindal a prime-time program. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

PERSON: BOBBY JINDAL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1067 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Costs Rise Unevenly Across U.S.

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Medicare spending continues to vary widely across the country, with some cities like Miami and Dallas experiencing much faster growth in costs than places like San Francisco and Pittsburgh, according to an analysis by Dartmouth researchers. 
 In their analysis, to be published Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine, the researchers say that addressing the wide variations in the cost of care for the elderly will be critical to any overhaul of the nation's health care system envisioned by the Congress and the Obama administration.
 The regional differences in the growth of Medicare spending suggest doctors are helping to drive up costs when they more frequently order tests or admit patients to the hospitals. In areas where there are plenty of hospital beds and sophisticated imaging equipment available, doctors generally spend more on their patients. 
 ''The incentives are there for growth,'' said Dr. Elliott S. Fisher, the director of the Center of Health Policy Research at the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice and one of the work's authors.
 While the specific dynamics of the local markets vary, he said, the current payment method fuels spending by encouraging hospitals and doctors to try to expand their services. He said any attempt to rein in health care costs, as President Obama has repeatedly vowed to do, needs to address how doctors and hospitals are paid, where they are rewarded on the basis of the volume of services they perform. 
 A former Bush administration health official agreed. ''As long as Medicare pays for volume and intensity, that's what you're going to get,'' said Dr. Mark B. McClellan, a health policy specialist at the Brookings Institution who oversaw the Medicare program during part of the previous administration. 
 Some areas, like Miami, where many doctors schedule monthly appointments for heart disease patients, are experiencing the fastest rise in health care costs. Medicare spending there rose 5 percent a year from 1992 to 2006, compared with 2.4 percent in San Francisco, according to the Dartmouth group. Medicare spent about $16,000 per enrollee in Miami in 2006, compared with about half as much in San Francisco. The figures are adjusted for inflation. 
 ''This new research only reinforces the importance of enacting comprehensive health reform this year,'' said an aide to Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who is a central figure in the discussions of an overhaul to the current system.
 Both Dr. Fisher and Dr. McClellan advocate a new payment method that would reward doctors for providing better care and would share with them any savings they generated by keeping patients out of the hospital or choosing not to order another test. Medicare has had some success with some experiments along these lines, said Dr. McClellan, who also cites a few places like North Carolina where private insurers are joining forces with the state to try new approaches to payments. 
 The Obama administration has already signaled its interest in attacking the variations in spending as a way of controlling costs and potentially shifting resources, some policy specialists say. ''It is a virtual certainty within the next two years,'' said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a Princeton economist who specializes in health care. ''We will address these variations,'' he said, including possibly proposing regional limits on spending to try to address the areas with the highest costs. 
 The Dartmouth researchers estimate that if the federal government could find a way to make sure the national health care bill increased no more quickly than that of a city like San Francisco, it could eventually save tens of billions of dollars. 
 The findings, Dr. Fisher said, also suggest the country could potentially absorb the additional costs of insuring the 46 million people who are currently without coverage without necessarily experiencing a significant spike in spending to handle the increased demands of new patients. 
 ''There's plenty of capacity to support them,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Researchers say that doctors in some areas order more frequent tests on elderly patients.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); WRITERS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); INSURANCE (66%); AGING (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); MAX BAUCUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1068 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: FALL IN OIL PRICES THREATENS PLANS TO REBUILD IRAQ

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON and JAMES GLANZ; Campbell Robertson reported from Baghdad, and James Glanz from New York. Riyadh Mohammed contributed reporting from Baghdad.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
In few nations around the globe are the consequences of the financial crisis as potentially sobering as they are in Iraq. Both oil revenues and American financial support have plummeted just as the country has the chance to take advantage of its increasing stability to improve basic services and upgrade its ruined infrastructure.
 Now, projects are being put off as Iraq struggles to pay for huge raises granted to government employees as well as the salaries and equipment for hundreds of thousands of new Iraqi security troops. 
 Last summer, with oil prices above $100 a barrel, Iraq was so flush with cash that many in the United States were arguing that a country so rich should be paying for its own reconstruction and possibly even reimbursing American taxpayers. 
 Six months later, the question is whether a decline in Iraqi government revenues, which depend almost entirely on oil, could threaten the relative security and stability won here at the cost of so much American treasure and life. Indeed, political pressure is rising here, as more Iraqis demand precisely the services, like better electricity, water and education, that could now come more slowly. 
 A stable Iraqi economy and an adequately prepared Iraqi military are crucial if American combat troops are to withdraw by August 2010, as aides to President Obama suggested this week. And illustrating just how closely the two countries are still intertwined, a faltering Iraq could also complicate Mr. Obama's plan to lower the American deficit with billions in savings that would come from such a withdrawal.
 As the Iraqi Parliament debates a proposed $62.8 billion budget this week, senior American and Iraqi officials say that Iraq can prevent an immediate crisis by drawing on the very source that attracted such intense criticism in the United States: the billions of dollars in oil revenues that Iraq was unable to spend on its reconstruction projects. 
 That money, which Iraq's central bank and senior Obama administration officials say comes to roughly $35 billion, is sitting in various bank accounts, including one at the Federal Reserve Bank in New York. 
 To help plug the gap, Iraq is planning to withdraw about $20 billion in a single year. But that will not be enough, government officials say, to save reconstruction projects crucial to improving gravely inadequate services. 
 The provision of electricity is still far short of meeting demand, and the government is still struggling to provide clean water. Iraqi officials insist that Iraq could have revenue sources besides oil, like agriculture and industry, but developing them requires investments. Oil production itself has recently dropped in certain key fields, requiring a major injection of government money. 
 In the past, money for projects has been allocated but not spent. Now it is drying up altogether.
 ''It's a mathematical issue,'' Raed Fahemi, the minister of science and technology, said at a conference on Wednesday dedicated to finding alternatives to oil money. ''We are staying up all night trying to ensure that there are required funds for projects currently under way. The issue comes with the future projects.''
 The reason capital projects are being put off is that the reserve funds in the banks were originally intended to be spent as part of the capital budget, not to meet shortfalls in Iraq's day-to-day operating costs, which now take up four-fifths of the proposed 2009 budget. And unless oil prices increase or Iraq finds new sources of revenue, its piggy bank at the Fed will last only so long.
 ''It's a disaster,'' said Ismail Shukir Haruty, a member of Parliament's financial committee. ''What are we going to do in 2009, 2010, 2011?'' 
 In many ways, the financial crisis, with the resulting drop in oil prices, could not have come at a worse time. The government gave its employees substantial raises last year. Wages now take up about 35 percent of the budget. 
 And in a critical move as the United States takes less and less responsibility for security, the number of soldiers, police officers and other security personnel has soared to 609,000, from 250,000 two years ago, when oil prices were on the rise, according to the Pentagon. 
 ''There are some critical expenditures, like paying the military and the police and making sure that's being done very, very well,'' said Rick Barton, co-director of the post-conflict reconstruction project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''You can't afford any slippage at this time.''
 Still, a senior administration official said the United States was confident that the cumulative oil surpluses would allow it to weather the immediate storm. ''The overall trend is still moving in a reasonable direction even if they're not able to do quite as much as anticipated,'' the official said. 
 Identifying the roots of the crisis here is much simpler than it is in many places in the world. In Iraq, there is not much of a credit market to dry up nor are there mortgages to default on. Oil accounts for roughly 90 percent of government revenue. When oil prices drop, as they have to below $40 a barrel from a high last summer of nearly $150, there are few other options for collecting revenue.
 Finance and Oil Ministry officials in Iraq maintain that oil prices will rise again by the end of the year. After years of conservative budgeting, the proposed 2009 budget is based on an optimistic projection that oil will be selling at $50 a barrel, and that Iraq will be exporting two million barrels a day, about 100,000 barrels more than Iraq exported per day in January. 
 Critics of the budget say that the projections are unrealistically rosy and that the deficit will be even larger than the one planned.
 The timing is particularly bad for the new leaders who emerged from January's provincial council elections. Many blamed incumbents for failing to deliver services and improvements, but they will have to make good on their promises with much less money.
 ''Reasonable people will understand, but the common people will not accept it,'' said Baqir al-Shaalan, who won in the southern Iraqi province of Diwaniya on promises of a refurbished irrigation system, new housing and government jobs for unemployed youths. ''They will tell us: 'You've been justifying the lack of services with the security situation. Now the security situation has improved.' ''
 Then again, the provincial councils have such a dismal record of spending the money they have been allocated that, American officials say, they could actually spend more money this year even if their budgets are more austere. 
 There is a bright side: the crisis could finally force the Iraqi government to build up its agricultural and industrial sectors, and create a thriving private sector. Some Iraqi officials have been pushing for these moves for years.
 ''If the Iraqi government knew about the big depression, it would have done a lot of things differently,'' Mr. Haruty, the lawmaker, said. ''Same as the American government, I think.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: American soldiers on a recent patrol with Iraqi forces in Mahmudiya. Iraqi troops are increasing their responsibilities, but Iraq may have trouble paying them. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEHAD NGA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Sewage water fills a street in the Sadr City section of Baghdad. Oil money was supposed to pay for basic services and repairs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1069 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Study Estate Plans Before Laws Shift

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
BARRING a Congressional logjam, there is likely to be a new estate tax law by the end of 2009. The Obama administration has said that making the tax permanent, avoiding a one-year repeal starting next year, is a high priority. Yet details of the proposal the White House will support are unclear.
 For people who are setting up estate plans, or updating existing ones, not knowing what proposal will emerge might be temptation to take a wait-and-see approach. But that could be a mistake.
 Estate plans should be reviewed at least every five years, more often if there's a change in finances or circumstances -- if health or marriage takes a turn for the worse, or if there's a birth or death in the family. 
 Under the existing law, the current 45 percent tax would be repealed for 2010. Then, after a year with no estate tax, the tax would return in 2011 but at a higher rate, 55 percent.
 Meanwhile, the amount of an estate that is exempt from taxes has gone up gradually during the past eight years, and took a big jump to $3.5 million this year, from $2 million in 2008. But in 2011 it is due to drop to $1 million.
 Most tax experts think that, whatever law Congress passes, it will keep the $3.5 million exemption and 45 percent rate. But uncertainties remain. That, coupled with the financial crisis that lowered many people's net worth, makes a review more urgent.
 ''With people having a lot less money than they used to, you really need to look at your documents and see if they do what you intended,'' said Joshua S. Rubenstein, a lawyer with Katten Muchin Rosenman in New York. A review will allow you to use tax-planning tools that Congress may soon curtail or eliminate.
 Here are things to consider:
 Formula clauses in wills ''Although people hate reading these documents because they don't exactly read like Jacqueline Susann,'' Mr. Rubenstein advised skimming them for buzzwords that could be problematic, given the increased exemption and perhaps a drop in net worth. He said terms like ''that portion,'' ''that fraction'' or ''that amount'' (without saying what it is) are signs of lawyers trying to take maximum advantage of the exemption. Be sure that's what you want. 
 Instead of naming a specific sum that will go into a trust, many wills refer to an amount up to the exemption or express the sum as a percentage of whatever the limit happens to be when the person dies. This is good standard practice, but with the exemption at $3.5 million, make certain it reflects your intent. 
 Bypass or credit-shelter trusts These tools, used to preserve the estate-tax exemption for both spouses, are an area in which formula clauses may lead to undesirable results. Here's how bypass trusts (often called family trusts) work: assume your will includes a formula clause that would allocate up to the $3.5 million exemption to the trust if you die before your spouse. The trust distributes income and principal to your spouse and family members while your spouse is alive, then distributes what is left to family. 
 Since money in the bypass trust is covered by the exemption amount, it will not be taxed when you die. Putting the funds in trust, rather than leaving them to your spouse outright, ensures that neither the assets nor any appreciation on them will be considered part of your spouse's estate. Therefore, they are not subject to tax when he or she dies. 
 If the rest of your assets go to your spouse, the tax on this portion, called the marital share, is not eliminated, but rather will be postponed until that person's death. Assuming the assets pass outright or through another special kind of trust, no tax will be assessed when you die, because assets inherited from a spouse are entitled to an unlimited marital deduction. But if your spouse doesn't spend all that money, what remains of the marital share will be taxed when he or she dies. (Special rules apply to spouses who are not United States citizens.)
 The current exemption creates this situation: if your estate plan is structured to take full advantage of the estate tax exemption, more than ever before will go into a bypass trust and less will go to your spouse. For instance, if you die with $3.5 million of your own, your spouse's entire inheritance would go into the bypass trust. And that could seriously limit her access to the funds.
 There are a number of solutions, said David A. Handler, a lawyer with Kirkland & Ellis in Chicago. One is to put the full exemption amount into the family trust while making sure that your spouse is a major beneficiary of the trust who can receive distributions liberally for broad purposes. 
 State estate tax About half the states, including New York, Connecticut and New Jersey, impose an estate tax, and many of these have an exemption smaller than the federal one. This poses a dilemma for married people who have divided their estates between a bypass trust and a marital share, said Lloyd Leva Plaine, a lawyer with Sutherland, the Washington-based firm. 
 For example, in New York, where the state exemption is only $1 million, fully funding the bypass trust to take advantage of the federal exemption would require your estate to pay a 16 percent state tax when you die on the $2.5 million not covered by the state exemption.
 This presents a tough choice. If you allocate more to the marital share, your estate avoids federal and state estate tax when you die, but could pay more federal tax if assets appreciate, as well as state tax, when your spouse dies.
 If you put more in the bypass trust, there's no federal tax on this sum when you die, but your heirs must immediately pay state estate tax. Consult your lawyer about ways to allow your executor -- the person who puts your will into action -- the flexibility to resolve these issues after you die.
 Grantor retained annuity trust (GRAT) This is a strategy designed to avoid or minimize the gift tax that applies to lifetime transfers of more than $1 million. To do that, you put appreciating assets into a short-term irrevocable trust (two years is typical) and retain the right to receive an annual income stream for the term of the trust. 
 This annuity is based on the Section 7520 rate, which is set each month by the I.R.S. If you survive the trust term -- a condition for this tool to work -- any appreciation above this set rate can go to family members or to trusts for their benefit when the term ends. If you die during the term, a portion of the trust will be included in your estate. 
 Under current law, it is possible to set up a GRAT that will result in no taxable gift, or a nominal one. There is talk that Congress might change that, requiring that the gift equal at least 10 percent of the initial trust value.
 In that case, new GRATs would be less appealing, but those created before the law took effect are likely to be grandfathered, said Gideon Rothschild, a lawyer with Moses & Singer in New York. Meanwhile, low asset values and an extremely low Section 7520 rate -- 2.4 percent for March -- make GRATs especially attractive right now, he said.
 Family limited partnerships This tool involves two steps. First, you put assets, like marketable securities, real estate or shares of an operating business, into a partnership. Then you sell or give away shares in the entity that holds the assets -- not the assets themselves. Since these shares cannot readily be sold outside the family, they are discounted for both lack of marketability and lack of control (typically a total discount of about 35 percent). 
 Congress may put a stop to this technique, which has been under attack from the I.R.S. for more than a decade. The first estate tax bill of the year, introduced in the House of Representatives on Jan. 9, proposed closing the loophole, and would take effect when the bill is signed into law. If you use discounts before then, you would not be affected if the law changes.
 Beneficiary designation forms Money in individual retirement accounts or employer-sponsored retirement plans, like 401(k)'s and 403(b)'s, will not normally be covered by a will. Instead, the money goes to the people, trusts or charities designated in beneficiary forms for the account. With all the consolidation in the financial industry lately, it's a good idea to make sure that the financial institution where you have the account has a copy of your beneficiary designation form on file, said Natalie B. Choate, a lawyer with Nutter McClennen & Fish in Boston. If it does not, fill out a new one, keep a copy with your will and have your lawyer coordinate it with the rest of your estate plan.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN S. DYKES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TAX PLANNING (78%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%)

COMPANY: KATTEN MUCHIN ROSENMAN LLP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1070 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Vow Swift Action on Obama's Agenda

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; David Stout contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senate Democratic leaders pledged Wednesday to move quickly to enact the ambitious policy agenda outlined by President Obama in his speech before Congress on Tuesday night, with Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, saying he hoped to achieve a health care overhaul this year.
 ''By the end of this year, I want to do something significant dealing with health care,'' Mr. Reid, of Nevada, told reporters as he and fellow Democrats hailed what they saw as a successful address by the new president. 
 In the aftermath of Mr. Obama's first speech to a joint session, Mr. Reid and fellow members of the Democratic leadership also called on Republicans in Congress to join them in pursuing the president's initiatives not only on health care but on energy, education and stabilizing the economy and housing markets.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Senate Democrat, said Republicans cannot praise Mr. Obama, who retains a high level of popularity in the early days of his presidency, but then continue to attack his policy proposals.
 ''Our Republican colleagues have tried to act like they're cheering for the quarterback, and then nitpick his play calling,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''Well, President Obama and his agenda are one and the same. You can't separate the man from the agenda.''
 But Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican minority leader, said he expected that parts of Mr. Obama's agenda would not move as quickly as the president would like. In some areas, the president's speech sounded ''conservative,'' Mr. Boehner said, remarking that ''the president's speech was one I could have given, probably not as well.''
 And Mr. Boehner took issue with Mr. Obama's boast that the $787 billion stimulus package included no earmarks, contending that depended on who defined the term. Pointing to the omnibus spending bill under consideration now, Mr. Boehner said the president should veto it because of its ''9,000 earmarks'' and wasteful spending. 
 ''You've all heard all the talk about fiscal responsibility,'' Mr. Boehner said to journalists attending a luncheon sponsored by The Christian Science Monitor. ''And based on everything I've seen, it looks like the era of big government is back. My questions for my Democratic colleagues are how are you going to pay for this?''In an interview on National Public Radio Wednesday morning, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the second-ranking Republican in the House, who helped engineer united party opposition to Mr. Obama's economic stimulus plan, said his colleagues remain willing to work with the president on policy goals they share.
 ''That debate is behind us,'' Mr. Cantor said of the stimulus fight. ''We've got to go forward. We have to tackle these very difficult situations, starting with our banking system. We've got to get credit flowing again. The president was very definite in his commitment to make sure that happens, and I believe that we will have some ability to work together to produce results.''
 Mr. Reid's commitment to a health care overhaul this year could be considered ambitious, given the difficulty Congress has had in the past in taking on the complex issue of how to deliver affordable health care to most Americans combined with the partisanship that has gripped the House and Senate. 
 In addition, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, is absent from Washington most of the time because he is receiving treatment for brain cancer.
 But Mr. Reid said significant progress has been already been made in meetings among lawmakers and staff members, and he maintained that the schedule could be met.
 ''I think we're doing quite well,'' he said. ''I'm satisfied with our progress on this.''
 In the next few weeks, Mr. Reid said he would like to push forward with energy legislation, which has broad Democratic support, to clear the way for the climate change bill sought by the new administration. He also dismissed criticism that the federal government was engaged in a spending spree at a time when Mr. Obama was also talking about reducing the deficit during his term.
 He said lawmakers ''recognize that we're going to have to spend some money to get out of this hole,'' adding, ''This isn't the time to talk about balancing the budget.''
 At the White House Mr. Obama, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and their top aides continued on Wednesday to emphasize the need for moving ahead briskly with the $787 billion stimulus package that Congress recently approved and promised both to rush money through the federal bureaucracy and to exercise as much control as possible so that haste does not lead to wasteful spending.
 Mr. Biden, still beaming at the president's description of him the night before as the tough enforcer of efficiency, introduced himself at a staff meeting as ''the guy to don't mess with'' and urged everybody involved in the stimulus program to make sure that the money is ''actually getting out there and working.''
 The twin message -- spend it fast, but spend it smartly -- is crucial to the Administration's attempt to make it easier to win Congressional passage of the rest of their program this year and to avoid the pitfalls of waste, fraud and abuse that could derail progress.
 On Thursday, the White House is to begin presenting details of its spending proposals for the fiscal year that begins in October, and in the next few weeks Congress must pass omnibus spending legislation to keep this year's programs running for the next several months.
 Mr. Obama, officially naming former Gov. Gary Locke of Washington his latest choice to head the Commerce Department -- after his two earlier nominees fell by the wayside -- said the task of the department was, like that of the rest of the government, ''to help create conditions in which our workers can prosper, our businesses can thrive and our economy can grow.''
 On Friday, Mr. Obama plans to deliver an address at Camp Lejeune, N.C., the White House announced. Senior administration officials said Tuesday the president was nearing a decision that would order American combat forces out of Iraq August by August 2010, giving the military three months more to withdraw than the 16-month pullout plan he promised last year while campaigning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); VETO (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); WRITERS (71%); RANKINGS (68%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (51%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HARRY REID (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (74%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1071 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Spending Bill, and Critics Are Quick to Point Out Pork

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House on Wednesday passed a $410 billion omnibus spending bill packed with pet projects requested by Democrats and Republicans alike.
 The 245-to-178 vote came just a week after President Obama signed one of the largest spending bills in the nation's history, a $787 billion measure meant to rejuvenate a sluggish economy.
 The new bill, a reflection of Democratic priorities, increases spending on domestic programs by an average of 8 percent in the current fiscal year, which began in October. 
 On Thursday, Mr. Obama is scheduled to send his budget for the next fiscal year to Congress. He did not take a formal position on the bill passed by the House. 
 ''It's a big document,'' a White House official said. ''We are still reviewing it.''
 Republicans, however, did not mince words in describing the spending bill as wasteful. And one watchdog group said the bill provided nearly $8 billion for more than 8,500 pet projects favored by lawmakers, including $1.7 million for a honey bee laboratory in Weslaco, Tex.; $346,000 for research on apple fire blight in Michigan and New York; and $1.5 million for work on grapes and grape products, including wine. 
 Representative John Fleming, Republican of Louisiana, said Mr. Obama's call for fiscal responsibility, in a speech to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday, was ''sandwiched between two wasteful spending bills.'' 
 Representative Mark Steven Kirk, Republican of Illinois, pointed out that the new bill came just two days after the White House held a forum to promote fiscal restraint.
 The legislation includes nine of the regular appropriations bills for this fiscal year. Unable to reach agreement with President George W. Bush last year, Congress provided most domestic agencies and programs with a short-term infusion of cash, which runs out at the end of next week.
 Democratic leaders of the House and the Senate have already negotiated and agreed on the contents of the new legislation. But conservative Republican senators could try to amend the bill, to pare it down or delete earmarks. If they succeed, the bill would need to go back to the House before it could be presented to the president.
 The bill increases budgets for the Departments of Education, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, and Transportation, among others.
 Over all, it provides $19 billion more than Mr. Bush requested for the same agencies and $31 billion more than what they got in the last fiscal year.
 Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, said the bill ''turns the page once and for all on the last eight years.''
 Democrats boasted that they had not included earmarks in the economic stimulus bill, but lawmakers of both parties relished the opportunity to stuff the new bill with pet projects.
 Taxpayers for Common Sense, a watchdog group, counted more than 8,500 ''Congressionally designated projects'' in the bill and said the cost of these earmarks totaled $7.7 billion., up 3.4 percent from last year.
 Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said it was unseemly for Congress to finance so many pet projects at a time when ''the Justice Department is investigating the connection between earmarks and campaign contributions.'' 
 By a vote of 226 to 182, the House killed a proposal by Mr. Flake calling on the House ethics committee to investigate such connections.
 Representative David R. Obey, the Wisconsin Democrat who is chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said earmarks were a small part of the bill and had been fully disclosed. Without the earmarks, he said, ''the White House and its anonymous bureaucrats'' would control all spending.
 Moreover, Democrats said 40 percent of the spending on earmarks went to projects that had been requested by Republicans.
 Representative Jerry Lewis of California, the senior Republican on the Appropriations Committee, said that to understand the magnitude of new federal spending, one must look at the money in the omnibus bill and the money for the same agencies in the economic stimulus law, which together total $680 billion. That sum is 80 percent higher than spending for those agencies last year, he said.
 A number of policy changes are included in the bill. It would, for example, make it easier for Americans to visit immediate relatives in Cuba. And it would forbid Mexican trucks to operate outside certain commercial zones along the border with the United States. The Teamsters union, which supported Mr. Obama's election last year, had sought the restriction.
 Among the pet projects is one to help producers of genuine pork, in contrast to the Congressional variety. The bill includes $1.8 million to conduct research in Iowa on ''swine odor and manure management.'' 
 The legislation includes $173,000 for research on asparagus production in Washington State; $206,000 for wool research in Montana, Texas and Wyoming; and $209,000 for efforts to improve blueberry production in Georgia. 
 It also includes $208,000 to control a weed known as cogongrass in Mississippi; $1.2 million to control cormorants in Michigan, Mississippi, New York and Vermont; $1 million to control Mormon crickets in Utah; and $162,000 to control rodents in Hawaii.
 Democrats also earmarked money for the presidential libraries of three Democrats: Franklin D. Roosevelt ($17.5 million), John F. Kennedy ($22 million) and Lyndon B. Johnson ($2 million).
 The bill even includes earmarks requested by some lawmakers who have left Congress, like Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, and Representative William J. Jefferson, Democrat of Louisiana.
 House Republicans have been divided on the merits of earmarks. Some, like Mr. Flake and the minority leader, John A. Boehner of Ohio, do not request earmarks. But other Republicans, including many on the Appropriations Committee, do request such projects.
 In the Republican response to Mr. Obama's speech on Tuesday night, Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana said Republicans lost the public's trust in recent years because they ''went along with earmarks and big government spending in Washington.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); HISTORY (72%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (58%); JAMES P MCGOVERN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1072 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Just Between You and Me (and the President)

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The I's Have It,'' by Patricia T. O'Conner and Stewart Kellerman (Op-Ed, Feb. 24): 
 Of all the grammatical errors Americans make, the fingernail across the chalkboard is using ''I'' instead of ''me'' as an object. 
 I know that President Obama is capable of correcting that in his oratory. Now let's hope that all the rest of our fellow Americans will take note and alter their own usage accordingly. 
 I have spent a lot of time pointing out this egregious misusage; thus, I am gratified that it has now been given wider exposure.
 Nancy Pickelsimer Elkins Chapel Hill, N.C., Feb. 25, 2009
 To the Editor:
 While a world economic crisis surely takes precedence, and while I certainly give our new president high marks on most things, I do, nonetheless, count myself as one of those who take exception to his improper use of ''I'' as an object pronoun.
 I think, however, that the writers of this article have the wrong explanation as to why so many people make this mistake. The original sin -- the subject of so much elementary school scolding -- was not the use of ''me want candy,'' a mistake usually corrected by the first grade. It was, rather, the use of sentences that began ''Bob and me,'' as in ''Bob and me went to play baseball,'' a widespread mistake that occurred through sixth grade and even beyond. 
 Teachers would invariably correct this by saying ''Bob and I,'' usually before the sentence was finished. This happened so many times, over so many years, that the message became embedded as the proper way to construct a twosome, regardless of circumstance, even among people who were otherwise grammatically astute.
 As this message was carried into adulthood, ''Bob and I'' became the construction of choice in all twosomes. 
 But please, let this be President Obama's biggest failing.
 Andy Edelstein New York, Feb. 24, 2009
 To the Editor:
 My late husband, Bruce, used to relate this anecdote about learning ''between you and me'' in Miss O'Connor's English class at Weequahic High School in Newark in the early 1950s. 
 Miss O'Connor was teaching a grammar lesson about the correct usage of ''between you and me.'' Each student in the class had to present a sentence with the correct usage, and Miss O'Connor greeted Bruce's initial offering as lame. She told him that she would come back to him, to give him a chance to come up with a better example. 
 When she eventually returned to him for his answer, he responded, ''There should be a fence between you and me, Miss O'Connor.'' Notwithstanding his annoyance with his teacher, Bruce certainly learned the proper use of that expression!
 Flora Buchbinder Cowen Edison, N.J., Feb. 24, 2009
 To the Editor:
 As an editor myself, I'd love to hear an American president use the correct case all the time. But frankly, after the eight years to which the English language has just been subjected, complaining about President Obama's grammar is ridiculous.
 David Berman New York, Feb. 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WRITERS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); BASEBALL (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1073 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Tiger Returns
 Highlights from Tiger Woods's return to competitive play. In his first tournament since knee surgery, Woods showed little rust and fewer nerves, dispatching the Australian Brendan Jones by 3 and 2 in the first round of the Accenture Match Play Championship in Marana, Ariz. 
 nytimes.com/sports
 SLIDESHOW: ORCHIDS IN THE BRONX
 Images of ''The Orchid Show: Brazilian Modern'' at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. The Brazilian part means Cubist-inspired vertical planters 12 feet high; a free-standing wall covered with 800 white phalaenopsis, or moth orchids; and a single staghorn fern the size of a condor.
 nytimes.com/home
 SLIDESHOW: VIGILS, NOT FIREWORKS, FOR TIBETAN NEW YEAR
 Images of Tibetans marking their new year by memorializing those injured or killed in last year's crackdown by China.
 nytimes.com/world
 SLIDESHOW: BARING ALL IN BROOKLYN
 A panorama inside Brooklyn's newest sex club.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 VIDEO: DURING THE DOWNTURN
 Ron Lieber discusses what you need from your financial planner in an uncertain economy.
 nytimes.com/yourmoney
 AUDIO: TECH TALK PODCAST
 The recent changes in the iTunes Store and a chat with Greg Canessa of PopCap Games.
 nytimes.com/personaltech
 SLIDESHOW: THE DURABLE 'ER'
 Interviews with the professionals who have worked behind the scenes on the show since it made its debut in 1994.
 nytimes.com/television
 Opinion
 Proof
 Rock Star, Meet Teetotaler
 A writer wonders how fun she could possibly be now that she doesn't drink.
 nytimes.com/proof
 A Dictator's Art
 Portraits of the former Communist dictator of Romania, Nicolae Ceausescu, and his wife, Elena, from their own collection. The pieces are part of ''Overcoming Dictatorship,'' an exhibition at the National Museum of Contemporary Art in Bucharest. Mihai Oroveanu, the museum's director, hung the works diagonally, to make clear that the show was not a tribute. 
 nytimes.com/design

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (73%); CELEBRITIES (69%); PODCASTING (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (57%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (90%); TIBET (87%); CHINA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1074 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. Pakistan Campaign Is Working, Director Says

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and HELENE COOPER; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Leon E. Panetta, the new director of the Central Intelligence Agency, said Wednesday that the agency's campaign against militants in Pakistan's tribal areas was the ''most effective weapon'' the Obama administration had to combat Al Qaeda's top leadership.
 The C.I.A. in recent months has intensified its covert campaign of missile attacks in the tribal areas, carrying out more than 30 strikes against Qaeda and Taliban leaders from drone aircraft. Mr. Panetta stopped short of directly acknowledging the missile strikes, but he said that ''operational efforts'' focusing on Qaeda leaders had been successful. 
 ''It is for that reason that the president and the vice president and everyone else supports continuing that effort,'' he said. 
 Mr. Panetta's comments were the most candid to date about the Obama administration's decision to continue -- and in some cases expand on -- the Bush administration's covert operations against Al Qaeda. Privately, American officials have said that the C.I.A. missile strikes have killed a large cadre of Qaeda leaders since last summer, although Pakistani intelligence officials say they fear the drone strikes are further destabilizing their already fragile country. 
 Mr. Panetta's comments came during a discussion with reporters two weeks after he took over at C.I.A. headquarters. He also said that the spy agency had begun producing a daily report to the White House about the world financial crisis -- another sign that American intelligence agencies are increasingly nervous about how it could affect global security. 
 The Pakistani concerns about the drone strikes came up during meetings this week in Washington between Obama administration officials and Pakistani military and civilian leaders. Despite hours of discussions on Tuesday and Wednesday, the American and Pakistani sides remained somewhat wary of each other's motives and strategies to fight militants. 
 Pakistani officials have told their American counterparts that they are doing everything they can to fight extremists in the mountainous border region. The delegation also sought to reassure administration officials that their recent deal to allow Islamic law in the Swat Valley was not surrendering to the Taliban, but rather an attempt to drive a wedge between hard-core Taliban leaders and local pro-Taliban Islamists who might be wooed back to the government's camp.
 ''I guess I remain skeptical,'' Mr. Panetta said. 
 Responding to the American concerns, one Pakistani diplomat said the decision in Swat was ''a local solution, and the United States should not be worried about it.''
 Relations between the C.I.A. and the Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence, Pakistan's powerful military spy agency, have frayed in recent years amid American accusations that the agency has maintained ties to militant groups planning attacks in Afghanistan. 
 On Tuesday, Lt. Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha, the ISI's chief, told White House and State Department officials that the agency had purged itself of ''rogue elements,'' said a senior administration official, who spoke anonymously because he was describing delicate discussions.
 The meetings are part of a broad Obama administration review currently under way about Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
 Meanwhile, Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, warned Wednesday that the additional 17,000 troops being sent to Afghanistan by President Obama needed to be followed by an overhaul of American strategy. ''When you aren't winning in this kind of war, you are losing,'' Mr. McCain said in a speech at the American Enterprise Institute. 
 He called for more than doubling the Afghan Army to as many as 200,000 troops, and for more nonmilitary assistance to Kabul to strengthen civil institutions and economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (71%); MOUNTAINS (61%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1075 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Congressman Calls Stadium Naming Rights an 'Ego Boost'

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Representative Barney Frank, the chairman of the powerful House Financial Services Committee, is not a fan of stadium naming-rights deals like the Mets' Citi Field agreement or the corporate hospitality that is a hallmark of sports sponsorships. 
 ''Marketing expenses should be for real marketing, not ego boosts, which is what I think naming rights are,'' Frank, a Democrat from Massachusetts, said Wednesday in a telephone interview. ''Important men, in particular, like to hang out and ingratiate themselves with sports figures, and after the fact try to figure out how to make sense of the sponsorships as marketing or economic development.''
But as much as he thinks Citigroup's 20-year, $400 million deal with the Mets was a mistake -- ''I don't think anybody has ever opened a bank account or decided to buy a CD because a bank's name is on the stadium,'' he said -- Frank is not demanding that the bank break a valid contract that the Mets have said has no escape clause.
 ''If there's some cancellation fee, fine, but if it's binding, it's binding,'' he said. 
 Citigroup is negotiating for a third bailout -- in addition to the $45 billion in Troubled Asset Relief Program funds it has received -- that would increase the federal government's stake in it to 30 to 40 percent from about 8 percent.
 ''We can't force them to break an existing contract'' with the Mets, Frank said. ''But we can put in some pretty strict conditions on them going forward.'' 
 Another recipient of $45 billion in TARP money, Bank of America, decided last month not to proceed with a multimillion-dollar sponsorship at Yankee Stadium. 
 On Tuesday, Frank sent a letter to Northern Trust Bank in Chicago, a recipient of $1.58 billion of TARP funds, demanding that it reimburse the government for the lavish entertainment and hospitality it treated clients and employees to during the PGA Tour's Northern Trust Open last weekend at Riviera Country Club in Los Angeles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); SPORTS FANS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); ATHLETES (72%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); GOLF (60%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1076 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Again Rejects Bank Takeovers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, spurned speculation again on Wednesday that the government might nationalizeCitigroup or other big banks. 
 When asked about Citigroup during a House Financial Services Committee hearing, Mr. Bernanke said nationalization ''is when the government seizes the bank and zeros out its shareholders,'' but that the administration does not plan on doing anything like that.
 He told lawmakers the government might end up with a much bigger ownership stake in Citigroup or other banks.
 In the case of Citigroup, Mr. Bernanke said, ''we'll see how their test works out and what evolves.''
 The Fed chief was referring to ''stress tests'' that regulators will start conducting on the biggest banks to judge whether they could hold up if the recession were to worsen.
 Some banks -- after they complete their stress tests -- will not need additional help, Mr. Bernanke said.
 Citigroup has been involved in talks with regulators over ways the government could help strengthen the bank, including use of the stock conversion plan. Citigroup already has received $45 billion in bailout money and guarantees to cover losses on hundreds of billions of dollars in risky investments.
 On the housing front, Mr. Bernanke said the glut of unsold homes currently on the market could drive prices down too much. The problems ''could put us in real danger of driving housing well below fundamentals,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some banks will need no additional help, the Fed chairman told Congress.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BAILOUTS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1077 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Court Bars President's Rival From Office

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
A ruling by the Supreme Court on Wednesday barring the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif from holding elected office plunged Pakistan into political crisis as Mr. Sharif called for nationwide protests and the president imposed executive rule in the important province of Punjab.
 The confrontation between the president, Asif Ali Zardari, and Mr. Sharif was likely to serve as a distraction from the escalating insurgency of Al Qaeda and the Taliban that Washington was trying to persuade the government to focus on, political analysts said. 
 Soon after the court decision, supporters of the Pakistan Muslim League-N, the political party headed by Mr. Sharif, burned tires and ripped down posters of Mr. Zardari in Lahore and Rawalpindi.
 By early evening, the chamber of the Punjab Assembly was filled with Muslim League legislators chanting slogans and banging the desks.
 The Supreme Court disqualified Mr. Sharif, who served as prime minister twice in the 1990s, from holding public office because of a criminal conviction connected to the military coup that ousted him in 1999. 
 In an attempt to forestall the coup, Mr. Sharif had ordered that an aircraft carrying the head of the army, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, into Pakistan not be allowed to land. The coup succeeded, and Mr. Sharif was convicted on hijacking charges and forced into exile in Saudi Arabia. 
 Mr. Musharraf served as president until last year and appointed the Supreme Court that made the ruling Wednesday under an emergency decree two years ago. Mr. Sharif has called the court illegal. Mr. Zardari has supported it. Their coalition government came apart over the issue last fall. On Wednesday the court also barred Mr. Sharif's brother, Shahbaz, from holding elected office, leading him to step down immediately as chief minister of the Punjab.
 Nawaz Sharif denounced the court decision as a politically motivated ruling orchestrated by his archrival, Mr. Zardari. ''It's an edict, not a verdict,'' Mr. Sharif said. Without offering proof, he also alleged that Mr. Zardari had tried to offer a business deal to his brother if he supported the legitimacy of the Supreme Court.
 Hours later, Mr. Zardari retaliated, ordering the governor of Punjab, Salman Taseer, a member of the president's political party, to administer the province for two months until the appointment of a new chief minister. 
 Punjab is the heartland of popular support for the Sharif brothers and is the most populous province in Pakistan.
 Nawaz Sharif does not enjoy as much popularity in Pakistan's other three provinces, and one of the tests in the coming weeks will be whether he can muster significant support outside Punjab.
 The appointment of Mr. Taseer, a major ally of the president, to oversee the province appeared aimed at trying to weaken the hold of the Sharif brothers over the bureaucracy and key law enforcement posts.
 The ruling by the Supreme Court against the Sharif brothers had been anticipated for weeks. Their assessment that the court decision was political rather than judicial had also been expected. The Pakistan Peoples Party said in a statement that the ruling was ''a court decision and has nothing to do with the government.'' It urged the Sharif brothers ''to control their supporters in the interest of democracy.''
 A spokeswoman for the government, Sherry Rehman, said, ''It's unfortunate the ferocity of the reaction and the personalized attack on the president has soured the atmosphere.'' She urged the Sharif brothers to join the government in the spirit of ''reconciliation'' to tackle the nation's economic problems.
 The standoff between Mr. Zardari and Mr. Sharif was considered so combustible that the ''government's future is uncertain,'' said Hasan Askari Rizvi, a columnist for The Daily Times, an English-language newspaper that is owned by Mr. Taseer. But it would take at least a month to see an outcome, he said.
 The Obama administration, which is currently conferring with the Pakistani government on new strategies to fight the insurgency, would be ''very concerned and upset'' by the political turmoil, Mr. Rizvi said.
 The prospect of a popular movement stirred up by Mr. Sharif was worrying because in the past such efforts in Pakistan had ''always resulted in a system that isn't democratic,'' Mr. Rizvi said.
 Among the factors adding to the political volatility were the relative showings of Mr. Zardari and Mr. Sharif in recent public opinion surveys.
 According to a poll taken in October and released in December by the International Republican Institute, a Washington-based outfit affiliated with the Republican Party, Mr. Sharif's approval ratings outstripped Mr. Zardari's by large margins.
 When asked who they would prefer to have as president, 59 percent of the respondents said they preferred Nawaz Sharif, and 19 percent said they preferred Mr. Zardari.
 The poll was taken among 3,500 people between Oct. 15 and Oct. 30 in the four provinces of Pakistan, according to Robert Varsalone, the manager of the survey. The margin of error was 1.66 percentage points, he said.
 After the ruling on Wednesday, Nawaz Sharif said he would join a protest march of the lawyers' movement on March 12 intended to force the reinstatement of the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, whom Mr. Musharraf removed. 
 Mr. Sharif has argued that Mr. Zardari was intent on keeping his replacement, Abdul Hameed Dogar, because Mr. Dogar would leave in place an amnesty on corruption charges that benefited Mr. Zardari. Mr. Zardari rejects the argument and has refused to reappoint Mr. Chaudhry last year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Rawalpindi on Wednesday, supporters of Nawaz Sharif protested a court decision barring him from elective office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY B. K. BANGASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); COUPS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TALIBAN (78%); AL-QAEDA (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); HIJACKING (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (93%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1078 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: As Saks Reports a Loss, Its Chief Offers a Plan

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Ever since it began posting double-digit sales declines and selling luxury goods at 75 percent off, Saks Inc. has been accused by rivals of decimating the luxury market and suspected, even by allies, of being a candidate for bankruptcy. 
 On Wednesday, the retailer came out swinging. 
 ''There have been a lot of rumors circulating about the company,'' Stephen I. Sadove, chief executive of Saks, said during a blunt conference call with investors, ''including bankruptcy.'' 
 Mr. Sadove did not explicitly rule out the possibility. But he argued that ''bankruptcy would destroy shareholder value'' -- a point pretty much beyond dispute -- and that Saks had devised a plan for the weak economy that should see it through. The plan entails cutting costs and introducing exclusive but more affordable merchandise, Mr. Sadove said.
 But the company hedged its bets. Kevin Wills, Saks's chief financial officer, told investors that if Saks ''needed to do something, we have very valuable real estate that provides us flexibility.''
 After they finished talking, shares of the company jumped nearly 13 percent.
 Like other retailers that sell costly discretionary items, Saks has been foundering ever since consumer spending fell drastically in September. In weeks, the retailer went from double-digit sales increases to double-digit declines. In January, sales at Saks stores open at least a year -- a measure of retail health known as same-store sales -- fell 23.7 percent, the biggest decline of any major retail chain. 
 For the three months that ended Jan. 31, Saks lost $98.75 million, or 72 cents a share, compared with a profit of $39.47 million, or 26 cents a share, a year ago. Those numbers, reported Wednesday, were below analysts' expectations. Same-store sales for the period fell 15.3 percent, in contrast to a 9 percent increase a year before. 
 And as if the consumer spending shutdown were not enough, Saks's credit ratings have been downgraded, its profit margins have eroded, and it is dependent for 20 percent of its revenue on the flagship store in Manhattan, home of the Wall Street downturn.
 ''If I were to look at it on a profitability basis, I don't feel good at all,'' Mr. Sadove told investors and analysts. 
 Still, retailing analysts said Saks has what matters most these days: cash. 
 ''We think they have time to weather this storm with their current financial situation,'' said Robert S. Drbul, a managing director at Barclays Capital Equity Research. 
 Saks has drawn down just $156.7 million of its $500 million credit line, and its next payment is not due until 2010. Analysts say it has managed expenses well, and they agree that its real estate is a significant asset.
 Buoyed by Mr. Sadove's comments, investors sent shares of Saks up from $1.85 to close at $2.09 on Wednesday. 
 But the company still faces an uphill battle. If it continues to post double-digit sales declines, it will burn through that precious cash. And while executives said their relationships with vendors were good, some vendors are upset that Saks sold their brands at bargain-basement prices. 
 Erin Armendinger, managing director of the Jay H. Baker Retailing Initiative at the Wharton School, explained that consumers had been trained to associate higher prices with better quality. 
 ''People are just starting to question what they are getting for the money,'' she said. ''If you see something that was a cotton T-shirt on sale for $100 and it was originally $600, you're like, 'I'm not sure what the real value was there.''' 
 Mr. Sadove acknowledged Wednesday that Saks's deep discounts not only hurt its margins but also ''ruffled some feathers.'' Still, he said he had no regrets: the price cuts were necessary to bridge the wide gap between supply and demand, especially in apparel.
 ''It's not diamonds at Tiffany,'' said Stacey Widlitz, an analyst with Pali Research. ''You can't break it down and use it as something else.'' 
 Saks has taken a lot of heat for its price cuts from rivals and brand owners. Mr. Sadove said that in spite of the discounting, no one should question Saks's commitment to luxury retailing. The company is investing tens of millions of dollars in projects like revamping its third-floor women's collections and opening a boutique selling Kiton, a luxury men's wear line with $7,000 suits.
 Mr. Sadove said Saks was not the first luxury retailer to offer discounts to move inventory. It was, however, the first retailer in this recession to reduce the tags on luxury brands to jaw-dropping levels. Mr. Sadove said customers did not respond to a 40 percent-off sale in early November, so Saks decided to go all out, discounting merchandise by as much as 75 percent. 
 Mr. Sadove acknowledged that discounts on some popular items, like handbags and shoes, did not have to be quite so eye-popping. Saks could have moved a lot at 55 or 60 percent off. But he insisted that apparel would not have sold without being heavily marked down. 
 ''Some actions were taken,'' Mr. Sadove said, ''that you'll probably never see again.''
 Ronald L. Frasch, Saks's president and chief merchandising officer, said Saks's consumers were still buying, but buying less. Women are ''shopping'' their closets, he said, so Saks is working with its brands to offer customers wardrobe pieces that they can integrate into what they already own. Other measures to drive sales include introducing men's suits for $995 to $1,195. 
 Items that are selling are bold, colorful or make a fashion statement -- the sorts of stand-out garments and accessories that retailing analysts say are necessary to persuade people to spend. Plain shoes, for instance, are not selling, Mr. Frasch said.
 Saks said Wednesday that it expected its same-store sales for the fiscal year to decline, but only in the low double digits.
 Still, Mr. Sadove said that given what might be the most challenging economy in Saks's 84-year history, ''it remains impossible to predict future sales and gross margin performance with any degree of certainty.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A display at the Saks Fifth Avenue store in New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Saks Fifth Avenue in New York. Saks's chief, Stephen Sadove, said its price cuts were necessary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); EQUITY RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%)

COMPANY: SAKS INC (94%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

TICKER: SKS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

PERSON: STEPHEN I SADOVE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1079 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: A Day for Hellos (Woods) and Goodbyes (Marbury)

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
Before the day is entirely consumed by the giant ''hello'' the sports world yells at Tiger Woods -- ranging in enthusiasm/desperation from the golf industry's ''Thank Heavens he's back; we were near death,'' to the casual sports fan's ''Oh cool, golf might be worth watching again'' -- we interrupt the reverie to say a few more hellos and an equal number, and perhaps even heartier, goodbyes.
 First, the sun is shining a little more brightly in New York now that a piece of the cloud hanging over the Knicks is leaving town. New Yorkers would probably pick a more descriptive phrase than ''goodbye'' to serenade Stephon Marbury on the occasion of his buyout, but let's just say that they do not believe they are sending a civic treasure to Boston. And Boston is not quite sure yet whether to say hello or crawl into a bunker. 
 It does take a little explaining just why the Celtics, otherwise known as a sane team with championship hopes, want Marbury, but both ESPN's John Hollinger and The Boston Globe's Marc J. Spears try their hand at it. And Yahoo's Adrian Wojnarowski takes on the role of crying, ''Watch out!'' and heads for the bunker.
 Today we also say goodbye to another college basketball No. 1, after Pittsburgh's loss to Providence on Tuesday night, which opens the question of just who wants the No. 1 ranking in college basketball. It does not help you win a national title, because unlike college football, there is that lovely thing called the N.C.A.A. tournament to decide that. So the list of big upsets in the sport this season makes interesting reading, but does not actually muck up the race for a title.
 Of course, college basketball is never free from controversy, and this week's dust-up comes courtesy of a postgame rant by Coach Jim Calhoun, who blew up when asked if his $1.6 million salary at Connecticut was appropriate in an economic crisis. His answer drew a rebuke from Gov. M. Jodi Rell and got a few bloggers thinking. This blog takes Calhoun to task for his assertions of how much money he makes for his state.
 If you prefer a basketball story to warm your heart instead of turning your stomach, ESPN's Pat Forde says hello to a tiny Kentucky high school making some outsize noise this season. Yes, apparently the Hoosiers dream lives on, in another state obsessed with basketball.
 Baseball offers a heartwarming story of its own, courtesy of Yahoo's Gordon Edes, who describes the long, painful comeback of Corey Koskie, whose career was nearly derailed by a concussion. 
 Koskie's first hello will come while playing for Canada in the World Baseball Classic, which released its full rosters so you can fill in your scorebooks at home.
 Or you can head to the less heartwarming corners of the sport and watch ESPN's Peter Gammons telling more questionable redemption stories, this one featuring Gary Sheffield. Or ponder the strange (and seemingly growing) world of identity fraud in baseball with this tale of a David Ortiz employee with more names than people are allowed to have. Baseball has, fittingly, bid him goodbye from its clubhouses.
 In hockey, Phoenix is not quite sure if the Coyotes are coming or going, with The Arizona Republic detailing the mystery over whether they got a bailout from the city of Glendale and, if not, who is keeping them in business.
 If your goal today is to say hello to Shaquille O'Neal, he gave folks in Phoenix an interesting chance to do that if they were following him on Twitter.
 The largest crowd today, though, will be following Tiger, literally and via computer. You can follow his first round at the Accenture Match Play Championships on various broadcast outlets, or on Jason Sobel's live blog on ESPN.com. Or you can choose more traditional methods of contemplating Tiger's return, thanks to Damon Hack's preview on golf.com, or follow the reverence on the PGA Tour site or Golfdigest.com.
 Those hellos come with many exclamation points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); BASEBALL (73%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); RANKINGS (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); BRAIN INJURIES (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); BOSTON CELTICS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (90%); M JODI RELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1080 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Obama's Energy Future

 BODY:
During his run for the White House, Barack Obama pledged to transform the way Americans produce and consume energy. Such promises come cheap on the campaign trail. In the real world they cost money and political capital. This week, in his speech to Congress, Mr. Obama made clear that he is ready to spend both to combat climate change and reduce this country's dependence on fossil fuels. 
 Obviously, a lot of very heavy lifting lies ahead. The president must persuade everyone from Congress to American taxpayers to the Chinese leadership to follow. We applaud his vision and urge him to push forward. 
 Mr. Obama listed energy, along with health care and education, as critical to the nation's economic future. He urged Congress to send him legislation that would place a mandatory and steadily declining cap on carbon emissions from power plants and other sources. This would require emitters to invest in more efficient plants and cleaner fuels and, at least initially, is likely to lead to higher energy prices.
 It was impossible to listen to him without drawing contrasts to the early Bush days -- to former President George W. Bush's swift renunciation of his campaign promise to regulate carbon dioxide and his easy and unsubstantiated assumption that fighting climate change could only damage the American economy. 
 Mr. Obama's commitment has been more than rhetorical. Five weeks into his presidency, he has signaled a readiness to regulate greenhouse gases from cars, trucks and new power plants, to require more fuel efficient vehicles and to invest heavily in energy efficiency -- including high speed rail and weatherizing homes -- as well as renewable energy sources like wind and solar.
 Nearly one-tenth of his economic recovery package, $80 billion altogether, is devoted to these purposes. 
 Not surprisingly, given the state of the American economy, his speech dwelled less on the perils of climate change and more on the economic promises of clean energy. He spoke of the profit to be gained by American industries and workers if the United States took the lead in investing in manufacturing wind turbines, more efficient solar panels and next-generation batteries -- reminding his audience that on these fronts China, Germany and Japan are doing better than we are.
 This was smart. Emphasizing the economic potential of a program that will carry a substantial price tag is surely one good way of selling it. 
 There also are extraordinarily thorny questions of design. Congress's last effort produced a bill of nightmarish complexity. To get one through this year or even next will require all of Mr. Obama's persuasive skills. 
 Merely acknowledging a problem is not the same as addressing it. It has been four decades since Richard Nixon urged Congress to free the nation from its dependence on foreign oil, and the country is more dependent than ever. It has been well over a decade since the world's industrialized nations agreed in Kyoto, Japan, to control global-warming emissions, and emissions continue to rise. Mr. Obama is challenging not just the country, but history. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BIOFUELS (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); TURBINE MFG (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1081 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 26, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Gov. Jindal, Rising Star, Plummets After Speech

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana has been a rising star in the Republican Party, but his stock took a hit as he was roundly panned for his televised response to President Obama's first speech to Congress on Tuesday night.
 Conservative commentators were among the harshest critics, calling Mr. Jindal's delivery animatronic, his prose ''cheesy'' and his message -- that federal spending is not the answer to the nation's economic problems -- uninspired. 
 Mr. Jindal, 37, the son of Indian immigrants, has been regarded as a potential presidential candidate in 2012 who would bring diversity and youth to a post-Obama Republican Party. 
 But the speech raised questions. 
 ''This was the moment for him to seize the mantle with new ideas, new direction, and lay the groundwork for himself as a creative new thinker,'' said Thomas Schaller, a political scientist at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. ''He just used old platitudes and party cliches.''
 Laura Ingraham, the talk radio host; David Brooks, the New York Times columnist; and Juan Williams of Fox News were among Mr. Jindal's unimpressed reviewers in television commentary, while Rush Limbaugh defended the governor on his radio show. Several commentators noted that response speeches, in which a designated member of the opposition party delivers a short, canned speech with no live audience, have often been a recipe for failure. 
 ''He went in there with high expectations, probably too high for any politician,'' said David Johnson, a Republican political strategist. ''Republicans are looking for a voice to lead them out of the wilderness.'' 
 Still, Mr. Johnson said, ''it was a flop.''
 Asked about the comments, Mr. Jindal's chief of staff, Timmy Teepell, said that the governor was responding to Mr. Obama, whom he called one of the most gifted speakers in generations. ''I think the governor did a great job,'' Mr. Teepell said.
 In his speech, Mr. Jindal said Republicans would work with Mr. Obama in areas where they agreed with him, and he offered a kind of apology for his party.
 ''You elected Republicans to champion limited government, fiscal discipline and personal responsibility,'' Mr. Jindal said. ''Instead, Republicans went along with earmarks and big government spending in Washington. Republicans lost your trust, and rightly so.''
 He also promoted his own record of tax and spending cuts and ethics reform in Louisiana. 
 Mr. Jindal's first star turn was supposed to come at the Republican National Convention last summer, but he canceled his appearance after Hurricane Gustav hit Louisiana. On Tuesday, he told viewers of his immigrant parentage and his father's awe of American ingenuity. 
 ''It seemed like part of the speech he was giving was the speech that he was to give at the convention,'' said John Maginnis, author of the LaPolitics Weekly newsletter. ''And that wasn't really appropriate for the Republican response.''
 Mr. Maginnis said Mr. Jindal could be a very effective communicator when responding to questions or speaking at informal town-hall-style events. ''But a prime-time, stand-up-and-deliver speech -- he's yet to master that one,'' he said.
 Mr. Johnson faulted Mr. Jindal for telling a story about Harry Lee, the sheriff of Jefferson Parish during Hurricane Katrina and who has been repeatedly accused of racial profiling, and for bringing up Hurricane Katrina at all, which Mr. Jindal cited as an example of the failure of big government. 
 ''The one thing Republicans want to forget,'' Mr. Johnson said, ''is Katrina.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana in his address Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS TELEVISION NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); WRITERS (71%); ETHICS (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BOBBY JINDAL (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID S JOHNSON (77%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2009



1082 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LOW-INCOME OPPORTUNITIES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: A Boost in Aid

BYLINE: DAVID STOUT

 BODY:
The president's budget assumes that some Americans will have to rely more on welfare and poverty-combating pro- grams ''in these tough economic times,'' and accordingly calls for spending more on a variety of programs. But it also foresees savings by trying to weed out fraud, waste and abuse.To make it easier for poor families to put food on the table, the Department of Agriculture's budget includes a temporary in- crease in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, formerly food stamps, under the recently enacted stimulus pack- age. 
The budget also includes money for a pilot program to in- crease participation among low- income elderly people.The budget for the Department of Housing and Urban Development includes $4.5 billion for the Community Development Block Grant program, meant to promote investments to expand economic opportunities for low-income families. An additional $1 billion would go to a program to develop, rehabilitate and preserve affordable housing for families with very low incomes, and financing was increased for a program to preserve 1.3 million rental units through contracts with owners of multifamily properties.The document proposes in- vesting $6 billion on cancer re- search and $4 billion to expand health care services for American Indians and Alaska Natives, in addition to more money to detect, prevent and treat AIDS.The Department of Health and Human Services would get additional financing for Early Head Start and Head Start, $73 million to improve health care in rural areas and support for state and local efforts to reduce pregnancy among teenagers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); RURAL HEALTH (65%); HEALTH CARE (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (54%); CITIES (54%); AIDS & HIV (51%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1083 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Spreading Pain In A.I.G.'s Bailout

BYLINE: By LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
The government needs to get tough with the insurer American International Group. Even at the time of the first bailout in September, the company seemed like a black hole.
Now, its hopes of selling some of its assets are fading and the government may be considering more aid.
Taxpayers look like the biggest losers in what's already a $150 billion bailout. Even if A.I.G. really is too big to fail, its other creditors, who have been shielded in part from losses by the government's interventions to date, need to share the pain. 
The Federal Reserve apparently underestimated the problem at A.I.G.'s financial products group. In the days after Lehman Brothers went bankrupt, the government lent the insurer $85 billion.
Then, it revamped the deal in October and November. In all, A.I.G. received $150 billion of government help: a $60 billion loan, $40 billion in exchange for a 79.9 percent equity stake and about $50 billion to capitalize two vehicles holding A.I.G.'s bad assets.
A.I.G. promised to sell assets to pay off the $60 billion loan. That always seemed like an ambitious goal given the troubled state of the economy and financial markets. Many potential buyers are short of capital. And no buyer is going to offer top dollar for an asset when they know the seller is under pressure.
A.I.G. has already sold assets for $2.2 billion -- including its private bank, its life insurance business in Canada, the HSB Group, Unibanco and some other units. MetLife made a preliminary offer of $11.2 billion for the American Life Insurance Company, according to news reports -- an asset that last fall might have fetched nearer to $20 billion.
That $2.2 billion doesn't move the needle much. And the sales of A.I.G.'s most valuable assets seem to be stalled or are, like its life insurance business in the United States, bringing in disappointing offers.
If buyers just don't have the cash, A.I.G. could hand businesses over to the government as a way of repaying its bailout. But government ownership of operating businesses isn't a good idea, and fairly valuing them could be tricky. Interested buyers could perhaps buy some A.I.G. units for stock, but then the government could end up owning those interests, too.
So much for the loan. The government's equity investment also looks like a loser. A.I.G.'s troubles selling assets and the low offers are forcing it to put more businesses up for sale than it originally anticipated. That means there is likely to be even less left for shareholders.
Stock market investors seem to agree that A.I.G. does not have enough assets to cover its private and government liabilities. The outstanding shares the government doesn't own are worth only $1.5 billion or so.
That means the government's approximately 80 percent interest, for which it paid $40 billion, is now worth only about $6 billion. Even if A.I.G. does pay back the government's $60 billion loan and the ''bad bank'' vehicles break even, the implication is that, at best, a quarter of taxpayers' $150 billion won't be coming back.
Meanwhile, the insurer still had $92 billion of privately held debt on its balance sheet as of the end of September. If the government were to inject more funds into it as preferred or common stock, taxpayers would be behind those lenders in the long line for A.I.G.'s assets. All that suggests that giving the company more cash or guarantees would be throwing good money after bad.
Of course, A.I.G.'s well-known and widespread role as an insurer may convince the government that it shouldn't be allowed to go under. But for taxpayers' sake, remaining shareholders and other creditors need to shoulder part of the cost. Creditors and trading partners have, after all, had nearly six months since the original bailout to reduce or hedge their exposure. If there's a way to cauterize A.I.G.'s wounds, the pain of doing so should be shared.
LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and RICHARD BEALES
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The giant insurer has already received about $150 billion in bailout money.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CHERNIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE CO (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); ITAU UNIBANCO HOLDING SA (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); ITUB3 (BOVESPA) (54%); ITUB (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1084 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'BRuCKE'; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Guys Who Put Art in Party Animal

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
The original bad boys of 20th-century German art got together in June of 1905. They were nobodies: four young, restless architecture students in Dresden, the jewel of the Elbe.
Partly inspired by the city's many bridges, they called themselves the Brucke, or bridge. They felt it implied movement toward the future and away from the ''older, well-established powers,'' in the words of their unusually open-ended manifesto. They liked echoing Nietzsche, who described man as ''a rope, fastened between animal and Superman. ... a bridge and not a goal.''
By the time the Brucke disbanded, in 1913, it had revived a rawness of feeling, form and execution that had been largely absent from European art since early medieval times. It had made a place for itself in the Modernist repertory, the creed of Expressionism, an art made directly from, by and for the self, unrestrained by affectations of polish, reason or classical beauty.
Judging by ''Brucke: The Birth of Expressionism in Dresden and Berlin, 1905-1913,'' at the Neue Galerie, the collective rawness still startles. 
The show packs several galleries with saturated colors, rough-edged motifs, unfinished surfaces and less-than-idealized nudes. They emanate from an array of 50 paintings, 53 works on paper and four sculptures.
''Brucke'' was organized by Reinhold Heller, a scholar of Northern European Modernism who taught for years at the University of Chicago. It concentrates almost exclusively on the group's leading, longest-running members: Erich Heckel, Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, Max Pechstein and their driven, putative leader, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. The Brucke Museum in Berlin was supposed to be a partner in this effort, but it didn't work out. The Neue scrambled for paintings from other museums, which responded generously, especially where Kirchner is concerned. The frame-to-frame installation is intensified by walls painted winsome hues of yellow, lavender and green.
All told, the show is an eyeful.
The Brucke artists were among the Peter Pans of Modernism. They refused to grow up or pipe down. Their art had a palpable Dada swagger before Dada, but their dreams had not yet been trammeled by World War I. Theirs was still a fairly cheerful barbarism. They were wary of the alienation and fragmentation of city life. At least until they relocated to Berlin in 1911, they thought they could regain what was good and natural if they just took off their clothes, danced around a bit and made art. Their idea of a good time was a communal painting session using several nude models who didn't assume static poses, but lounged or cavorted at will.
They began by mixing together some Jugendstil, bits and pieces of Impressionism, Post-Impressionism and Fauvism, along with a soupcon of Arts & Crafts. (Kirchner took up tapestry weaving and introduced the group to woodcut printmaking, one of its strengths. He also made his own furniture, none of which is in the show. The most visible signs of the group's handicraft are the marvelous frames Pechstein carved for two of his paintings here.) The Brucke artists, like Picasso and Matisse, learned crucial lessons from Oceanic and African sculpture, and from peasant and children's art.
They networked energetically, soliciting members, including their hero Edvard Munch, who declined. They enlisted a group of ''passive'' members who contributed financially in return for a yearly portfolio of prints. They organized a total of 70 exhibitions that toured more than 30 Germany cities. In 1913 the group commissioned Kirchner to write its history. When it was rejected as too Kirchner-centered, the author resigned, and the group dissolved, ending the Brucke era.
The show, installed thematically with most works made in 1909 or later, offers only a glancing notion of how the Brucke became the Brucke. Still, it took the group's members time to get their artistic act together, and if you connect the dates, you understand something of their path to maturity.
Among the show's three galleries of paintings, that path is clearest in the one titled ''Experience of Nature.'' The show's only painting from 1905 is Heckel's charming ''River Landscape With Bridge and Train,'' whose coarsened dabs of paint suggest van Gogh looking at Monet. Kirchner's nearby ''Trees in Autumn'' (the only painting from 1906) is all jangly nerve: van Gogh smashing into Cezanne, with a bit of Chaim Soutine foreshadowed. Also here: Pechstein's ''Red Fisherman's House'' suggests Munch's thin, stained paint in van Gogh's hands, while his 1908 ''March Snow'' is mostly van Gogh, except for the preponderance of pale lavender.
Schmidt-Rottluff's ''Corner of a Park'' from 1910 is classic Expressionist: a broad, red road heaves between clumps of blue, green and yellow. But it is Kirchner who pushes furthest, with black boats outlined in red parked on a pea-soup Elbe; in a landscape of crowded patches of greens and blues (including light turquoise) edged in black rickrack scribbles; and especially in a painting of a big pink lighthouse seen from a gull's-eye view, against a sharply curved horizon. The planet seems too small for this amazing structure.
In ''Urban Transformation'' you see Kirchner's rapid maturation between 1908 and 1914, especially in street scenes done in Dresden, with softer, Munch-like figures, and in Berlin, with splintery, spiky figures. He hovers between the two options in ''Dodo and Her Brother,'' started in 1908. In shades of green, yellow, black and red, it shows a man and a woman dressed for an evening out: she is self-possessed, steady. He, with a green face, is a spectral puppeteer. Another treat here: a wall of paintings of town and/or country by Heckel, Pechstein and Kirchner in which each artist's scrappiness achieves its own distinct discord, barely held together.
Often the standout paintings have the economy of woodcuts, as proved by ''Communal Studio,'' with its array of nudes, portraits and interiors. The four cavorting nudes of Heckel's ''Studio Scene'' of 1910-11 might almost be little paper dolls pasted to the surface.
Even sparer is his larger ''Young Girl With Doll'' of 1911, where the doll's black skirt cuts across the pelvis of the young, nude model like a knife, but also provides some cover. The subject, the 13-year-old Franzi Fehrmann, was a studio favorite; she also appears in several adjacent paintings by Kirchner, including the colorful and jazzily painted ''Franzi in Front of Carved Chair.''
Kirchner is particularly economical in a full-length portrait of Milly, an African model, and his double portrait of Otto Mueller (who shared much of the Brucke style but only joined its ranks in 1911) and his wife, Maschka. But he's a spendthrift in ''Two Nudes'' and ''Portrait of a Man (Hans Frisch),'' both large, mottled and from around 1907. Here he mixes up a pastiche of Seurat, van Gogh and Matisse and ladles it on with a palette knife.
Luckily, this section also includes some of Kirchner's sculpture: an expressive head and two nudes in carved wood. Here rawness coexists with nuance, distortion with a real sense of gesture and emotion. These works truly dance, and offer further proof that Kirchner's phenomenal career is a mine of exhibition possibilities.
The Brucke approach to art lacked Cubism's structural clarity or maybe any structure at all. But the movement's rowdy leaders compensated with attitude, abandon and an unrepentant faith in artworks that were as much events as objects, collisions of a certain personality in a certain mood with a certain kind of material and image.
This volatile mixture has been the special pride of German artists ever since, among them Sigmar Polke, Martin Kippenberger and John Bock. But it guides artists everywhere, not just bad boys, in mediums the Brucke never dreamed of.
''Brucke: The Birth of Expressionism in Dresden and Berlin, 1905-1913'' runs through June 29 at the Neue Galerie, 2 East 86th Street, Manhattan; (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Brucke,: at the Neue Galerie, includes the oil painting ''Franzi in Front of Carved Chair,'' by this German art movement's leader, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEO THYSSEN-BORNEMISZA, MADRID) (C23)
''Head of a Woman,'' a 1913 wood sculpture by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART)
 ''Portrait of a Woman,'' a 1911 oil painting by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBRIGHT-KNOX ART GALLERY, BUFFALO)(pg. C26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (59%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (59%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) GERMANY (91%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (71%); UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1085 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Steel Town Roots, Huck Finn Dreams

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
AMERICAN RUST
By Philipp Meyer
367 pages. Spiegel & Grau. $24.95.
Philipp Meyer's affecting first novel, ''American Rust,'' takes place in a small Pennsylvania steel town named Buell, a place where the jobs have disappeared, and foreclosures and meth use are on the rise, a town that makes longtime residents feel trapped and young people eager to flee, the sort of town profiled in newspaper and magazine articles about the fallout of the economic downturn on middle America and the tarnishing of the American Dream.
Mr. Meyer, whose writing has been published in McSweeney's and The Iowa Review, conjures up this blue-collar Rust Belt town with the same sort of social detail and emotional verisimilitude that Richard Russo has brought to his depictions of upstate New York and Russell Banks has brought to downstate New Hampshire. He writes about his characters' lives in Buell with sympathy and unsentimental clarity, conveying both the suffocating and supportive aspects of small-town life and his people's disheartening sense that they have somehow wound up on the wrong side of history, sidelined in a forgotten industrial town in the shiny new information age of globalization. 
The two young men at the center of ''American Rust'' -- best friends from high school -- make a decidedly odd couple: Isaac English, diminutive, brainy and socially awkward, the kid who was supposed to go off to an Ivy League university and become a famous scientist; and Billy Poe, the brawny football star with the volatile temper, a headstrong jock who ignored everyone's advice to go away to college on an athletic scholarship and instead chose to stay in Buell.
Having spent years at home, taking care of his invalid father instead of following his sister, Lee, to college, Isaac one day impulsively decides to chuck it all and head out to California to begin a new life: he will hitch a ride on a train or bus, and like Huck Finn or Jack Kerouac, light out for new territory. This decision immediately sets off a series of snowballing events that will overtake him and Billy, and their families too, as one bad choice after another, one ill-timed development after another, turns into an unstoppable machine obliterating options and hopes.
When a chance encounter that Isaac and Billy have with three homeless men unexpectedly turns ugly, the two former schoolmates find themselves caught in a dangerous spiral of violence. Suddenly Isaac is on the run, not in pursuit of his dream of a new life but in flight from the authorities, and Billy is under arrest for murder and sent away to prison, where his quick temper threatens to land him in even more trouble before he goes to trial.
Although these events sound melodramatic in summary, although the narrative tumble of dominoes requires that the reader occasionally suspend logic (like why aren't the wounds Billy sustained in the standoff with the homeless men evidence of self-defense?), Mr. Meyer does such a persuasive job of grounding plot developments in his protagonists' emotional histories that his story acquires the sort of propulsive sense of inevitability that made Dennis Lehane's novel ''Mystic River'' such natural material for a film adaptation.
By cutting from one character's point of view to another, Mr. Meyer is not only able to create a richly layered narrative with multiple perspectives, but he's also able to climb inside his people's heads and channel their thoughts and feelings. His portraits of Isaac and Billy demonstrate a keen, Salingeresque empathy for alienated but well-meaning young men bound to one another by loyalty and a shared past, while his descriptions of Isaac's sister, Lee, and Billy's mother, Grace, give us two women who make very different choices about the trajectories of their lives.
Lee, a brilliant student like Isaac, got a scholarship to Yale, married a wealthy classmate from Connecticut and is making plans to attend law school. Though she feels bad about having left Isaac to stay home with their invalid father, she rationalizes such feelings of guilt by vowing to come back and fix their lives: she will get her father proper nursing care and help Isaac get into college.
As for Grace, she too once dreamed of escape. She dreamed of going to college, getting a degree and becoming a social worker, but her rocky marriage to Billy's ne'er-do-well father has kept her from leaving, and she fears that her decision to stay has not only crushed her own dreams but dragged down Billy as well.
Appealing as these characters are, the real moral center of ''American Rust'' is the local police chief, Harris, a kind, decent man, who realizes that Buell's ''Mayberry days'' are over but still tries to bring a neighborly sense of compassion to his job, cutting people a break here and there, trying to see the best in them rather than the worst. Harris, who has been dating Grace on and off for years, once kept Billy out of jail on an assault case and now finds himself torn between his desire to help his longtime lover's son and his suspicion that Billy is indeed guilty, that the boy is a magnet for trouble.
There are awkward moments in this novel -- like Isaac's pretentious penchant for thinking about himself in the third person -- but these are fleeting lapses, steamrollered by Mr. Meyer's instinctive storytelling powers and his ability to create characters who evolve from familiar types into flesh-and-blood human beings. ''American Rust'' announces the arrival of a gifted new writer -- a writer who understands how place and personality and circumstance can converge to create the perfect storm of tragedy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C23)
 Philipp Meyer (PHOTOGRAPH BY A. SEIFERT)(pg. C28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); METHAMPHETAMINE (72%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%); ARRESTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: American Rust (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1086 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; HEALTH CARE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Paying for Coverage

BYLINE: ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
President Obama's budget would make a down payment to- ward his goal of covering the uninsured, and he would pay for it in part by cutting federal payments to hospitals, insurance companies and drug companies.He would also increase premiums charged to higher-income Medicare beneficiaries for prescription drug coverage.Mr. Obama requested more than $6 billion for cancer re- search at the National Institutes of Health, up from $5.6 billion last year, and he announced a ''multiyear plan to double cancer research.''In addition, he said he would speed the approval of low-cost generic versions of expensive biotechnology drugs by establishing ''a new regulatory path- way'' at the Food and Drug Ad- ministration.And he said he would increase access to family planning services for low-income women by expanding eligibility under Medicaid. A similar proposal was dropped from the recent economic stimulus bill after many Republicans complained.Mr. Obama asked Congress to set aside $634 billion in a ''re- serve fund for health care re- form.'' 
He provided no new information about how to cover the uninsured, saying he would work out the details with Congress later this year. But he did propose specific changes to save money, and many of his ideas face opposition from lobbyists and the interests they represent. Mr. Obama would, for example, require drug companies to give bigger discounts, or re- bates, to Medicaid, the health program for low-income people. Drug makers now must provide Medicaid with a discount equal to at least 15.1 percent of the average manufacturer price for a brand-name product. Mr. Obama wants to require dis- counts of at least 22.1 percent. Drug companies have resisted such proposals in the past.Mr. Obama said he would save $176 billion over 10 years by cut- ting Medicare payments to health insurance companies that provide comprehensive care to more than 10 million of the 44 million Medicare beneficiaries.Medicare pays private insurers an average of 14 percent more than it would cost to care for the same people in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program.''It's time to stop this waste,'' the White House said.Karen M. Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, denounced the proposal. It would, Ms. Ignagni said, require people in private Medicare Advantage plans to bear ''a disproportion- ate share of the costs to reform the health care system.''The president also proposed cutting Medicare payments to hospitals that readmit a large proportion of patients within 30 days after they are discharged. Such readmissions sometimes indicate that hospitals provided poor care or did not properly co- ordinate care.Under the proposal, hospitals would receive ''bundled payments'' that cover not only their own services, but also any care provided by nursing homes and home health agencies in the month after patients left the hospital. The White House said these changes would save $26 billion over 10 years.Mr. Obama also proposed squeezing $37 billion out of Medicare payments to home health agencies over the next decade.William A. Dombi, vice president of the National Association for Home Care and Hospice, a trade group, said this proposal would directly affect frail, sick older people.''Patients would lose access to care very quickly,'' Mr. Dombi said. ''Over 70 percent of all home health agencies would be operating in the red.'' President George W. Bush made a similar proposal last year, but it died in Congress.Doctors praised one aspect of Mr. Obama's budget. He assumes that Congress will protect doctors from cuts in Medicare payments scheduled to occur under current law -- cuts of 21 percent in 2010 and about 5 percent in each of the next few years.''We are very pleased,'' said Dr. Nancy H. Nielsen, president of the American Medical Association. ''All previous budgets assumed cuts in doctor payments.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); BUDGETS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); CANCER (77%); LOBBYING (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (77%); ONCOLOGY (76%); APPROVALS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); MEDICAID (58%); FAMILY PLANNING (55%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1087 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; AGRICULTURE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Attack on Subsidies

BYLINE: ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
President Obama's budget calls for an end to direct payments to ''large agribusinesses that don't need them,'' a plan likely to meet fierce opposition from farm-state lawmakers, particularly from the South.The president is recommending that direct payments to farmers -- those payments not contingent on crop prices -- be phased out to producers with sales of over $500,000 a year, a proposal that would save $9.8 billion over a decade. More than 116,000 farms, out of 2.2 million in the country, had at least that level of sales in 2007. The president would also cap payments at $250,000 a year.The Department of Agriculture is expected to spend $8.8 billion on farm subsidies this year, of which roughly $5 billion are direct payments. 
For years, some Midwest lawmakers and President George W. Bush tried to curb the largest payments, with only modest success.In 2006, for instance, the top 1 percent of farmers received 20 percent of all payments, according to the Environmental Working Group, which maintains a database of farm subsidies.Farm organizations and law- makers from farm states are already balking. ''We just passed a fiscally responsible farm bill that made cuts to farm programs, so now is not the time to reopen it,'' Representative Collin C. Peterson, Democrat of Minnesota, who is chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, said Thursday in a statement.Bob Stallman, president of the American Farm Bureau Federation, said the cuts could do more harm than good by curtailing ''much-needed economic activity without yielding deficit reduction of any significant degree.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FARM BUREAU FEDERATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); COLLIN PETERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1088 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FOREIGN AID; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Help Abroad

BYLINE: SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
President Obama's budget of $51.7 billion for the State Department and foreign aid is purposely vague, experts say, as the ad- ministration works to figure out its overseas priorities during an economic crisis at home.The proposal represents a nearly 10 percent increase over the 2009 budget of $47.2 billion, an amount the White House says puts the United States ''on a path to double foreign assistance,'' although the budget does not specify a time period.As he tries to repair relations with the world, Mr. Obama has vowed to put more emphasis on diplomacy. The budget includes a pledge to increase nonmilitary assistance to Pakistan and Afghanistan ''to revitalize economic development and confront the resurgence of the Taliban.''But the administration may be rethinking issues like global health, in particular the signature program of former President George W. Bush to fight the global AIDS epidemic, said Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.Mr. Morrison said he expect- ed that ''on ethical and moral grounds,'' the White House would continue to provide antiretroviral drugs for those already taking them at American expense. But he said Mr. Obama might shift money to other dis- eases, like malaria and tuberculosis, or other health priorities, like clean water or family planning. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ETHICS (73%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); TALIBAN (69%); TUBERCULOSIS (67%); EPIDEMICS (67%); AIDS & HIV (67%); MALARIA (67%); ANTIVIRALS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1089 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: $25 Billion for Electric Cars Is Still Untouched

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The future of the American auto industry is getting off to a slow start.
The Energy Department has $25 billion to make loans to hasten the arrival of the next generation of automotive technology -- electric-powered cars. But no money has been allocated so far, even though the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan program, established in 2007, has received applications from 75 companies, including start-ups as well as the three Detroit automakers.
With General Motors and Chrysler making repeat visits to Washington to ask for bailout money to stave off insolvency, some members of Congress are starting to ask why the Energy Department money is not flowing yet. The loans also are intended to help fulfill President Obama's campaign promise of putting one million electric cars on American roads by 2015. 
''Politicians are breaking down the door asking why the money isn't being sent out,'' said Michael Carr, counsel to the Senate Energy Committee, which oversees the Energy Department.
It is a question that Lachlan W. Seward, director of the program, says he hears a lot these days. ''We're moving with a sense of urgency,'' said Mr. Seward, who also oversaw the Chrysler Loan Guarantee Board from 1981 to 1984. ''But at the same time we are trying to do this in a responsible way that reflects prudent credit policy and taxpayer protections.''
Energy Department staff members said they were still sifting through loan applications, dozens of which arrived on the filing deadline of Dec. 31. On top of that, another $2 billion is coming to the department from the $787 billion stimulus package. That money will be used to develop the advanced battery technology needed to power electric cars, batteries more durable, safer and cheaper than anything available today.
Until now, the program has gotten caught in the shifting priorities of two administrations. The program was not funded until September 2008. Then, the Bush administration considered using the Energy Department fund to help bail out G.M. and Chrysler, an idea that was later rejected. After that, President Obama had to name a new cabinet. As soon as Steven Chu took office as energy secretary, some members of Congress started applying pressure on the fund.
Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, wrote Secretary Chu on Jan. 23, two days after he was sworn in, to say the agency is ''under an obligation to issue the loans as soon as possible.''
Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, who have led a bipartisan effort to increase fuel-mileage standards, followed with a letter calling for an ''aggressive timeline'' in issuing loans.
In response, Dr. Chu announced last week that the first loans would be made by late April or early May, adding that the program's paperwork would be simplified and more staff would be hired.
There are complicating factors. Money can be given only to companies and projects that are deemed ''financially viable.'' G.M. and Chrysler, which have applied for a combined $13 billion from the Energy Department, must wait until the end of March for the Obama administration to decide whether the companies' restructuring plans would make them viable.
The program's small staff -- around a dozen part- and full-time employees -- must also sort through complicated proposals, up to 1,000 pages long. Many of the applicants have lined up members of Congress to pressure the department. Meanwhile, smaller companies say they fear the bulk of the money will be directed to the Detroit automakers.
Still, with credit markets tight, the program represents a rare source of financing to develop electric-vehicle technology.
''No one else out there will take on this risk,'' said Mr. Seward. ''It reminds me of the time at the dawn of the auto age when you had hundreds of companies making hundreds of kinds of cars and then they all coalesced. We are back in that era of invention again.''
The Energy Department has whittled the initial 75 loan applications, which seek a total $38 billion, down to 25 for a second round of reviews. General Motors is requesting $8.3 billion, earmarking a portion for the Chevy Volt, a plug-in hybrid. Ford Motor is asking for $5 billion for a variety of electric car retooling programs and Chrysler, a unit of Cerberus Capital Management, is asking for around $5 billion. Even Nissan said it has submitted an application for one of its American plants that meet the program's criteria.
Other applications are coming from battery developers. A123 Systems has asked for $1.8 billion to build a next-generation battery plant in Detroit, and Ener1, a maker of lithium-ion batteries, is asking for $480 million.
''Failure is not an option,'' said Charles Gassenheimer, chief executive of Ener1. ''We are confident we would build batteries without government help. But government help is necessary to launching the business in a mass way in the United States.''
Japan, Korea and China are currently the leaders in producing the batteries used in cellphones, computers and other portable electronics.
Advanced Mechanical Products, a Cincinnati company that converts Saturn Sky sports cars into electric vehicles, has asked for a $20 million loan. Stephen Burns, the company's chief executive, even dropped off his application by driving one of the all-electric cars to the agency and giving members of Congress a ride.
''Getting the money would be a big step for us,'' said Mr. Burns. ''We can function without it. But with it, we'd be on steroids.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A123 Systems, a battery maker in Massachusetts, is seeking $1.8 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Lachlan W. Seward, above, director of the loan program to encourage production of electric cars. In Hopkinton, Mass., an A123 worker assembles battery modules.
A123 Systems is one of 75 companies that applied for loans. The first distribution of money is expected by late April. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); POLITICS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (78%); EVAN BAYH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (54%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1090 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: President Obama's Budget: Progress on Health Care

 BODY:
Mr. Obama's budget plan makes a bold and long overdue commitment to overhaul the dysfunctional and far-too-costly American health care system. The plan will not guarantee affordable health coverage for all Americans, the ultimate goal, and it contains no blueprint for comprehensive reform of the system. Those issues will have to be thrashed out with Congress. 
But the substantial sums proposed by Mr. Obama are an impressive down payment on his pledge to make health care reform a priority right from the start of his administration. Those critics who will inevitably say that he is overreaching in the midst of an economic crisis should listen to the millions of Americans -- employers, employees and the unemployed -- struggling with the crushing costs of health care.
The plan calls for creating a $634 billion reserve fund for health care reforms over the next decade. And unlike the ill-fated Clinton health reform plan of the early 1990s -- whose many complexities were worked out behind closed doors only to crash in Congress -- Mr. Obama has mainly issued guiding principles.
Coverage should be universal, affordable, portable and there should be investments in prevention and improved quality of care. He is leaving most of the details to Congress in hopes of winning political support for an arduous reform task.
To the administration's credit, the budget plan does not pretend that this can be paid for through swiftly delivered efficiencies. Fully half of the money, $318 billion, would come from new taxes on the wealthy. The other major source of money would come from eliminating unjustified subsidies granted to the private plans that provide comprehensive care to more than 10 million of the 44 million older Americans covered by Medicare. By forcing these plans -- known as Medicare Advantage -- into a new competitive bidding system, the administration believes it can save $175 billion over 10 years.
The rest of the needed revenues, officials say, would come from various proposed savings and payment changes in the huge Medicare and Medicaid programs. Some $37 billion would be saved over 10 years by reducing Medicare's home health care payments, currently considered excessive. Almost $20 billion would be saved by extracting higher rebates from drug companies for medicines sold to Medicaid patients. And so it would go until the full $634 billion is reached.
Mr. Obama deserves high marks for putting out his own ideas on how to raise or save money while leaving plenty of room for Congress to substitute other ideas.
Even then, the prospects for full-scale reform remain highly uncertain. Congress is deeply polarized, and it will be lobbied heavily by every group whose financial interests might be threatened. Mr. Obama's budget won't come close to financing universal coverage. But the president has now made health care reform a top priority, and this plan is a sound start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); BUDGETS (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (62%); MEDICAID (58%); HOME HEALTH CARE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1091 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: A Bold Plan Sweeps Away Reagan Ideas

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The budget that President Obama proposed on Thursday is nothing less than an attempt to end a three-decade era of economic policy dominated by the ideas of Ronald Reagan and his supporters.
The Obama budget -- a bold, even radical departure from recent history, wrapped in bureaucratic formality and statistical tables -- would sharply raise taxes on the rich, beyond where Bill Clinton had raised them. It would reduce taxes for everyone else, to a lower point than they were under either Mr. Clinton or George W. Bush. And it would lay the groundwork for sweeping changes in health care and education, among other areas.
More than anything else, the proposals seek to reverse the rapid increase in economic inequality over the last 30 years. They do so first by rewriting the tax code and, over the longer term, by trying to solve some big causes of the middle-class income slowdown, like high medical costs and slowing educational gains. 
After Mr. Obama spent much of his first five weeks in office responding to the financial crisis, his budget effectively tried to reclaim momentum for the priorities on which he campaigned.
His efforts would add to a budget deficit already swollen by Mr. Bush's policies and the recession, creating the largest deficit, relative to the size of the economy, since World War II. Erasing that deficit will require some tough choices -- about further spending cuts and tax increases -- that Mr. Obama avoided this week.
But he nonetheless made choices.
He sought to eliminate some corporate subsidies, for health insurers, banks and agricultural companies, that economists have long criticized. He proposed putting a price on carbon, to slow global warming, and then refunding most of the revenue from that program through broad-based tax cuts. He called for roughly $100 billion a year in tax increases on the wealthy -- mostly delayed until 2011, when the recession will presumably have ended -- and $50 billion a year in net tax cuts for the nonwealthy.
The history of the United States economy over the last 70 years can be roughly divided into two periods: the decades immediately after World War II, when inequality plummeted, and the past three decades, when global economic forces and government policies caused it to soar. Mr. Obama is setting out to begin a third period that looks more like the first than the second.
That agenda starts with taxes. Over the last three decades, the pretax incomes of the wealthiest households have risen far more than they have for other households, while the tax rates for top earners have fallen more than they have for others, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
As a result, the average post-tax income of the top 1 percent of households has jumped by roughly $1 million since 1979, adjusted for inflation, to $1.4 million. Pay for most families has risen only slightly faster than inflation.
Before becoming Mr. Obama's top economic adviser, Lawrence H. Summers liked to tell a hypothetical story to distill the trend. The increase in inequality, Mr. Summers would say, meant that each family in the bottom 80 percent of the income distribution was effectively sending a $10,000 check, every year, to the top 1 percent of earners.
Mr. Obama's budget reflects that sensibility. Budget experts were still sorting through the details on Thursday, but it appeared that various tax cuts and credits aimed at the middle class and the poor would increase the take-home pay of the median household by roughly $800.
The tax increases on the top 1 percent, meanwhile, will most likely cost them $100,000 a year.
''The tax code will become more progressive, with relatively higher rates on the rich and relatively lower rates on the middle class and poor,'' said Roberton Williams, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center in Washington. ''This is reversing the effects of the Bush policies,'' he added, and then going even further.
And just as Franklin D. Roosevelt's tax increases on the wealthy followed a stock market crash, which had already depressed their incomes, Mr. Obama's proposals -- if they become law -- would too. The combination has the potential to reverse a significant portion of the inequality trends of the last few decades.
But for the country to repeat the post-World War II pattern, the incomes of most families would also have to begin rising at a faster rate than they have since the 1970s. That outcome remains deeply uncertain. Economists who study economic growth say the American economy is unlikely to grow nearly as fast in coming years as in the 1950s and '60s.
Mr. Obama would try to lift the incomes of the middle class and poor through two main channels, administration officials said. The first is an overhaul of health care, meant to reduce the insurance premiums now taking a large bite out of many families' paychecks.
The details remain vague, but the budget begins paying for investments that would eventually allow Medicare officials to refuse to pay for medical treatment that does not show evidence of improving health. If successful, that change would vastly reduce the government's long-term budget deficit. It is also likely to bring down private health costs, since insurers typically follow Medicare's lead.
The other channel is education. Over the last three decades, the pay of college graduates has risen significantly faster than the pay of less-educated workers. Mr. Obama aims to move workers into the first category by increasing federal financial aid and simplifying the myriad of aid programs. In recent years, the United States has lost its standing as the country in which the largest share of young adults graduates from college.
''Low- and middle-income kids often don't aspire to college,'' Peter Orszag, director of the Office of Management and Budget, said Thursday. ''They hear '$40,000 tuition' and think that's impossible.''
There are still many outstanding questions about Mr. Obama's efforts, starting with whether Congress will pass a budget that looks anything like his.
His proposals on health care are likely to meet stiff opposition from some doctors and insurers. Spending more money on financial aid -- absent other changes to the education system -- may not lift the graduation rate very much. And if the economy remains weak into next year, as many forecasters expect, Congressional Republicans will try to pin the blame on the looming tax increases on the affluent.
Whatever happens, though, it has been a long time since any president has tried to use his budget to shape the government and the economy quite as much as Mr. Obama did on Thursday. On that score, he and President Reagan have something in common.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Copies of the president's budget, ''A New Era of Responsibility.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) CHARTS: Tax Changes Under the New Budget: Under the president's proposal, 95 percent of earners would not see a tax increase, while the top 5 percent would see major increases.
HIGH-INCOME FAMILIES: Higher tax rates, reduced deductions: Starting in 2011, tax rates for the top two brackets -- those for couples with incomes above $250,000, and above some $370,000 -- would jump to 36 percent and 39.6 percent, respectively. High-income taxpayers would also face limits on deductions, including that for mortgage interest.
MIDDLE-INCOME FAMILIES: Same tax rates, some tax credits: For families in the middle, the Bush tax cuts would remain in place. The budget would also extend tax breaks included in the economic stimulus plan, like the $400 Making Work Pay credit and the credit for college tuition.
LOW-INCOME FAMILIES: More tax breaks: The Bush tax cuts would also remain in place for families at the bottom of the income ladder. Many would continue to be eligible for the earned-income tax credit and the child tax credit, making it possible to get money back even when no tax is owed.(Sources: Deloitte Tax
Tax Policy Center
Office of Management and Budget)
 What Tax Rates Have Been: President Obama's budget would sharply raise taxes on the rich. The top tax rate for income between $250,000 and about $370,000 would climb to 36 percent from 33 percent, while the rate for income above $370,000 would climb to 39.6 percent from 35 percent.(Source: Congressional Budget Office)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%); WORLD WAR II (65%); INSURANCE (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1092 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: President Obama's Budget: Some Honesty About Taxes -- Finally

 BODY:
President Obama's first budget recognizes what most of Washington has been too scared or ideologically blind to admit: to recover from George W. Bush's reckless economic policies, taxes must go up.
Mr. Obama's blueprint, released on Thursday, commits to cutting by more than two-thirds, by 2013, the $1.75 trillion budget deficit that Mr. Bush dumped on the nation.
A credible pledge to reduce the deficit is imperative. Without it, foreign lenders -- who financed the Bush-era deficits and are now paying for the stimulus and bailouts -- could lose faith in the nation's ability or willingness to repay in anything other than rapidly depreciating dollars. That would send interest rates up and the economy down, the worst-case scenario. Controlling the deficit is also necessary to sustain a recovery -- when it comes. 
The collapse of the Bush-era economy is ample and awful evidence of the folly of unconstrained debt-fueled growth. The Obama administration has acknowledged the need for deficit spending to stimulate the economy but has vowed that unpaid-for government will not become the norm. Judging from the blueprint, Mr. Obama is not just talking the talk.
A lot of the projected budget improvement is premised on economic recovery beginning in 2010, which may or may not happen. But much of it is premised on raising taxes. The proposed increases signal a serious attempt to tame deficits in a way that restores fairness to a tax code that has for too long been tilted in favor of the wealthiest Americans, resulting in budget shortfalls that disproportionately burden everyone else. At the same time, Mr. Obama has proposed a separate, targeted increase to help pay for health care reform in a way that doesn't dig a deeper budget hole.
All of the proposed increases apply to couples making more than $250,000 ($200,000 for single taxpayers) -- about the top 3 percent of taxpayers. None are big enough to derail an economic recovery. And contrary to Republicans' knee-jerk protests, they impose no outsize burden on small businesses: Most sole proprietors and other small-business owners do not make anywhere near a quarter-of-a-million dollars a year.
To combat deficits, Mr. Obama proposes to let Mr. Bush's high-end tax cuts expire in 2011, raising the top rate from 35 percent to as high as 39.6 percent. He would also impose a 20 percent rate on investment income, up from the current super-low 15 percent. And he would reinstate a tax provision enacted by the first President Bush, but undone by his son, that limited tax write-offs by high-income taxpayers for dependents and other expenses, like mortgage interest on vacation homes.
The proposal also calls for taxing private equity partners just like the rest of us. Under current law, multimillionaire buyout mavens pay tax on much of their income at about the lowest rates in the tax code. Under the Obama budget, their earnings would lose favored status and be taxed as the ordinary income of ordinary mortals.
No one who really believes in fiscal responsibility could object to the proposed tax increases. And yet, each one presages a political fight. At issue is not only the tax burden on the wealthiest Americans or election-year debates, but the real-life difficulty of weaning people hooked on unsustainable debt -- whether it is unpaid-for tax breaks or over-leveraged buyouts or junk mortgages. It's a challenge avoided for too long.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BUDGET FORECASTS (73%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1093 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA, BREAKING 'FROM A TROUBLED PAST,' SEEKS BUDGET TO RESHAPE U.S. PRIORITIES

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Carl Hulse and Peter Baker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Proclaiming a ''once in a generation'' opportunity, President Obama proposed a 10-year budget on Thursday that reflects his determination in the face of recession to invest trillions of dollars and his own political capital in reshaping the nation's priorities.
Mr. Obama would overhaul health care, begin to arrest global warming, expand the federal role in education and shift more costs to some corporations and the wealthiest taxpayers.
In a veiled gibe at the Bush years, Mr. Obama said his budget broke ''from a troubled past'' and attributed the current economic maelstrom to ''an era of profound irresponsibility that engulfed both private and public institutions from some of our largest companies' executive suites to the seats of power in Washington, D.C.'' 
Without trimming his ambitious campaign promises, the president projects a budget for the 2010 fiscal year of nearly $3.6 trillion. He said he would shrink annual deficits, now at levels not seen in six decades, mostly through higher revenue from rich individuals and polluting industries, by reducing war costs and by assuming a rate of economic growth by 2010 that private forecasters and even some White House advisers consider overly rosy.
None of the new taxes and other sources of revenue, however, would take effect until the economy recovers, administration officials said.
Mr. Obama's first budget was light on proposals to cut spending, despite his statement at the White House on Thursday that the government would be ''cutting what we don't need to pay for what we do.'' But the cuts he does propose, contrasted against his new spending, underscore the change he seeks.
Mr. Obama would slash about $5 billion in the coming year for direct payments to agribusinesses and farmers with more than $500,000 in annual revenue, and $4 billion in annual subsidies to private banks that make college loans. Instead he would increase spending for government Pell Grants to needy students, and for the first time index the maximum yearly grant for inflation.
Those two cuts alone will provoke big fights with the farm and banking lobbies and their supporters in Congress.
Republicans and business groups condemned the tax proposals. Robert Greenstein, executive director of the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, praised the budget as ''bold, courageous and honest'' but acknowledged that it takes on ''one vested interest after another, and that will require all of the president's skills to get through Congress.''
Mr. Obama will need the help of Democratic leaders in Congress, who promised to get to work right away. Republicans, however, were quick to charge that the proposals to raise some taxes would be job-killers, and served notice that they would challenge Mr. Obama's agenda by drawing an ideological distinction with the Democrats.
''I have serious concerns with this budget, which demands hardworking American families and job creators turn over more of their hard-earned money to the government to pay for unprecedented spending increases,'' said the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.
Having inherited an economy in recession and reeling from interrelated credit and housing crises, Mr. Obama starts off from a stunning deficit for 2009 that is projected to reach $1.75 trillion when the fiscal year ends Sept. 30, or nearly four times last year's shortfall. That would represent 12.3 percent of the gross domestic product, a deficit level that is larger than any since the end of World War II.
By the last year of his term, in the 2013 fiscal year, Mr. Obama projects a deficit of $533 billion, or 3 percent of the overall economy, a level that economists consider sustainable. Even so, he foresees the level of the nation's debt held by the public rising from 58.7 percent in the current year to 67.2 percent in a decade, a level not seen since 1951.
Of the $3.55 trillion requested for the 2010 fiscal year that begins in October, more than $2 trillion is mandatory spending for the programs -- chiefly Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- that provide benefits to all who are eligible.
Departing from the free market orthodoxy of his predecessor, George W. Bush, Mr. Obama would use the government's powers of spending and taxation to push the private market in new directions.
With higher taxes on the wealthy and savings squeezed from health care providers, drugmakers and insurers, Mr. Obama would create a $634 billion, 10-year ''health reform reserve'' as a down payment to finance disease prevention, wellness programs and research on cost-effective treatments ultimately to cut health care costs. More than any other expense, health care is driving future projections of unsustainable deficits. The health reserve would also be used to create affordable insurance programs for individuals and employers.
The president would remake the energy sector to reduce reliance on foreign oil and address global warming, by requiring industries to buy permits to emit the heat-trapping gases that contribute to global warming. The revenue would pay to develop alternative energy sources and to provide tax relief for Americans facing higher prices from utilities and industries passing on their permit costs.
Mr. Obama's tax proposals would reverse a trend toward greater income inequality in recent years by adding about $1 trillion over 10 years to the tax burden of the top 5 percent of taxpayers, roughly those making more than $250,000 a year. He would let the Bush income-tax cuts lapse after 2010 as scheduled for people at that income -- he would extend them for everyone else -- and limit the deductions top-earners can take. He would also raise income taxes on hedge fund and private equity partners.
''Over the past two or three decades, the top 1 percent of Americans have experienced a dramatic increase from 10 percent to more than 20 percent in the share of national income that's accruing to them,'' Mr. Obama's director of the Office of Management and Budget, Peter R. Orszag, said in a briefing for reporters. ''So we are asking them to pitch in a bit more.''
Mr. Orszag emphasized that it was ''just factually wrong'' to say the administration was raising taxes in a recession because the tax increases and industry permits would not take effect until at least 2011.
Republicans pounced anyway, charging that Democrats were returning to their tax-and-spend habits of the past. Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee, asked, ''Where is the restraint on spending?''
Representative Steny H. Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat who is the House majority leader, dismissed the charge in an interview by recalling the six years during the Bush administration when Republicans controlled Congress. ''What they did was raise spending and raise debt,'' Mr. Hoyer said. ''Now we are left with the obligation to try to get us back to balance.''
Mr. Hoyer predicted that the House, where Democrats have a significant majority, would pass an energy bill this year but that health care legislation might take longer. Both initiatives face bigger hurdles in the Senate, where Republicans have just enough votes to block legislation, requiring Mr. Obama to court the few Republican moderates, as he did to pass the $787 billion two-year economic stimulus package.
In a worrisome sign for the president, one of those Republican allies on the stimulus, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, in a statement called the president's goals ''worthy'' but added, ''While this budget claims to be long on fiscal responsibility and deficit reduction, it falls woefully short of these objectives.''
A significant share of Mr. Obama's projected deficit reduction owes to assumptions about economic growth that are more optimistic than private forecasts. Some Obama advisers privately objected that the rosy projections would draw criticism about manipulating the numbers, but Christina D. Romer, the chairwoman of Mr. Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, insisted to them that the projections were realistic.
After negative growth of 1.2 percent this year, the budget projects growth of 3.2 percent in 2010, and 4 percent or more in the following three years. In contrast, the consensus of business economists surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators this month projected growth no higher than 2.9 percent through 2013.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A1)
Joining President Obama for his remarks on the budget were, from left, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Peter R. Orszag, the budget director.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Orszag, left, went to the Capitol to give budget summaries to Kent Conrad, right, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, and Mr. Conrad's House counterpart, John M. Spratt Jr.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A17) GRAPHICS: President Obama's budget plan includes estimates for the largest deficits since World War II, as a share of gross domestic product.: Proposals include tax increases -- Allow the Bush tax cuts to expire at the end of 2010 for taxpayers with incomes above $250,000. -- Limit the tax benefits of itemized deductions for people in the top two brackets. -- Remove tax break for profits made by private equity and hedge fund managers. -- pollution surcharges and spending cuts -- -- Require businesses to buy permits to emit pollutants. -- Phase out direct payments to farmers with sales revenue of more than $500,000 a year. -- Eliminate annual subsidies to private banks that make student loans. -- Cut Medicare payments to private insurers. -- to pay for energy, education, tax credits -- -- Spend $150 billion between 2012 and 2019 for ''clean energy.'' -- Extend a new payroll tax credit for low- and middle-income families beyond 2010. -- Increase the maximum for Pell Grants and index to inflation. -- and health care. -- Set aside $634 billion in a ''reserve fund for health care reform.'' Move toward health insurance coverage for all Americans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); LOBBYING (76%); PRIVATE BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); WORLD WAR II (66%); AGRICULTURE (62%); STUDENT LOANS (61%); GRANTS & GIFTS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); KENT CONRAD (73%); PETER ORSZAG (73%); JOHN SPRATT (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1094 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2432 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
BISHOP ISSUES APOLOGY
Over Holocaust Denial
A bishop whose recent remarks denying the full scope of the Holocaust has apologized, according to a Catholic news agency. But while he apologized for the anger his remarks caused, he did not directly address the content. Page A6
A BRIGHT SPOT IN MIDEAST PROGRESS
What was a barren scrap of the Jordanian desert a year ago is now home to the training facility for the Palestinian guardsmen. The success of the guardsmen's training, and vastly improved conditions, stands out against an otherwise bleak state-building process. Page A6
ANOTHER SIDE TO A HERO'S STORY 
When the Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt returned from a year as a hostage to Marxist guerillas, she was celebrated as a hero. But a book by three American military contractors who were held alongside her tells a very different and unflattering story. Page A6
Malbork Journal
History's Forgotten Victims
Europe has more than its share of mass graves, owing to large-scale violence in the 20th century. And it can be too easy to see the Germans mostly as perpetrators, and not victims. A mass grave recently uncovered holds the remains of some 2,000 people near Malbork, Poland, people who authorities believe were German refugees fleeing the Soviet counterattack. Page A7
OBJECTIONS TO OBAMA'S PLAN FOR IRAQ
Several Congressional Democrats have raised objections to the Obama administration's troop withdrawal plan. The plan calls for 50,000 troops to remain behind, which is a higher number than some Democrats expected. Page A8
IRAQ SENTENCES 28 TO DEATH
Twenty-eight members of a Shiite messianic cult were sentenced to death for brutal attacks on Shiite pilgrims in Iraq, said an official from the federal court in Dhi Qar Province. Page A8
CHINA SAYS RIGHTS REPORT DISTORTED
A Chinese state news agency responded angrily to a recent State Department report on global human rights, saying it distorted and ignored the truth. The report had called China's respect for rights poor and mentioned its increased persecution of ethnic minorities and dissidents. Page A9
5 TOP SERBS FOUND GUILTY
The International Criminal Court at The Hague handed down long prison sentences to five former Serbian officials for their roles in the 1999 war in Kosovo. Page A11
national
9 STATES BALK AT STIMULUS MONEY,
And the Jobless Grow Furious
As governors in nine states threaten to reject millions of dollars in federal stimulus money for increased unemployment insurance, there is growing anger among the jobless in those states that they could be left out of a significant government benefit. PAGE A13
SILENT KILLER OF ELEPHANTS SPREADS
In the last eight years, one of five Asian elephant calves born in North American zoos has died of elephant endotheliotropic herpesvirus, a disease that accounts for more than half of all deaths of juvenile elephants in North America, researchers say. Still, the researchers know little about the disease. PAGE A13
U.S. BAN ON COFFIN PHOTOS IS LIFTED
The news media will now be allowed to photograph the flag-draped coffins of America's war dead as their bodies are returned to the United States -- but only if the families of the dead agree. The decision lifted an 18-year-old ban on such photographs that some criticized as hiding the ultimate cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. PAGE A13
IN THE HOUSE, WITH STRINGS ATTACHED
The Senate approved a bill to provide the nation's capital with a voting representative in the House, but it came with a catch. A controversial amendment was added that would repeal most of the city's gun-control regulations. PAGE A14
LIMITS ON CHARITIES DRAWS IRE
Wealthy donors and the nonprofits they support were in an uproar over the Obama administration's proposal to limit the value of deductions for charitable gifts, which was included in the budget the president presented to Congress. PAGE A16
Ex-C.I.A. Official Is Sentenced A14
VICTORY FOR CHICAGO WORKERS
The 250 workers who staged a December sit-in at a Chicago window factory to protest losing their jobs were celebrating after another window manufacturer announced plans to reopen the plant and start hiring back the displaced workers within months. PAGE A15
Bloggers to Aid Democratic Party A19
obituaries
WILBERT A. TATUM, 76
The often provocative former publisher and editor of The New York Amsterdam News, he became almost synonymous with that oldest and best-known of the city's black newspapers. PAGE B10
New York
JUST A (VERY LONG) MOMENT
Of Your Attention, Please
In the age of the sound bite, Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand's five-minute answers are becoming a trademark. Constituents describe her as warm -- a good listener who explains herself thoroughly, relentlessly even. Page A20
O'BYRNE'S OTHER JOB
Charles J. O'Byrne, a former aide to Gov. David A. Paterson, has rejoined the Paterson administration in an unpaid role allowing him to attend to private clients in his new career, which the governor's office has said is his business alone. But some of Mr. O'Byrne's business relationships could pose potential conflicts for the administration down the line. Page A20
Business
G.M. REPORTS $9.6 BILLION LOSS;
Its Chief Returns to Washington
The chief executive of General Motors is expected to ask Washington for more money after reporting a $9.6 billion fourth-quarter loss. With G.M.'s reported loss, the company also said that it was quickly going through its cash reserves, which were down to $14 billion at the end of 2008. Page B1
GREEN AUTO FUND SEEMS STUCK
The Energy Department has allocated $25 billion for loans to help usher in a new era in automotive technology: the electric car. But there has not been any ushering, although 75 applications have been filed, including three from Detroit automakers. Page B1
INSURANCE COMPANIES LEFT OUT
So far the Treasury's program to bolster the country's economy has left out insurance companies, who are beginning to despair. Page B1
NEED FOR DEVICE DATABASE SHOWN
Conflicting data on the failure rate of a widely-used heart device has produced quite a buzz among researchers. Some experts say that buzz would not be occurring if federal officials, medical device makers and more doctors had thrown their weight more fully behind efforts to develop a national database of patients who get heart devices. Page B2
THE POWER OF MARKETING
In the world of blankets with sleeves, some thunder may have been stolen. The Snuggie has often been called an original product, but is predated by the Slanket. It proves a law of advertising that being first can be usurped by aggressive marketing. Page B6
Sports
WOODS IS OUT IN SECOND ROUND
By a Challenger in Clark
In the second round of the Aperture Match Play Championship, Tiger Woods proved to be no match for Tim Clark, who produced a bogey-free performance. It's a major victory for Clark who has a total of zero PGA Tour wins to Woods's 65. Page B12
BOND'S CASE GETS FAMILIAR JUDGE
Susan Illston was a successful trial lawyer in the 1980s, eventually hired by the N.F.L. to fight a referee's wrongful termination suit. Her slavish reviewing of game tape and studying of rulebook trivia before that case resulted in a very well-informed judge, and a victory for the N.F.L. She is now the federal judge presiding over the Barry Bonds case. Her courtroom has been a stage for high-profile cases. This one may be the largest yet. Page B14
RECESSION COMES TO THE N.F.L.
As the N.F.L heads into free agency, players may feel the bite that has been the scourge of retailers: everything is priced to move except the bare necessities. Though the N.F.L.'s revenue is listed as $7.5 billion, teams and league offices have cited the recession as the reason for layoffs and frozen pay. There is also the concern that if the malaise continues, it will affect formerly reliable income sources like marketing deals and box seats. Page B12
Escapes
HONORING A HISTORICAL CONFLICT
As Realistically as Possible
Every year, a force 1,500 strong descends on Indiantown Gap military base in Annville, Pa. It comes to do battle, historically accurate, nonlethal battle. World War II re-enactors attending the Battle of the Bulge Living History Commemoration spend the weekend at war, and both sides come together for a Glenn Miller-style dance. Page D1
Away
A Home Becomes a Life
Josh Kilmer-Purcell and Brent Ridge, a couple from Manhattan, first discovered the home on an apple-picking trip in Sharon Springs, N.Y. What they at first took to be a museum soon became their home and an all-encompassing way of life. Page D1
Your Second Home
A Spa Retreat at Your Place
There's little doubt of the restorative powers of a nice, relaxing spa weekend. Just imagine features like delicious food, massages and mineral baths. The only thing that might top it is never having to leave your second home to enjoy it. Here are a few ideas. Page D2
High & Low
Hudson Valley Heats Up
For years, Chatham in the Hudson River Valley was a draw for weekenders looking for an affordable historic farmhouse as a second home. Now the prices are going up as the area's popularity transcends that of its individual houses. Buyers still get more land than in the Berkshires, but the price gap is smaller than in the 1990s. Page D4
Weekend
REALITY AND CHARM IN A HAPPY RENDEZVOUS FOR FILM ENTHUSIASTS
Two heavyweights will arrive at the Cesar awards (the French Oscars) on Friday: ''Mesrine,'' a four-hour gangster epic, and ''Seraphine,'' a portrait of the early 20th-century painter Seraphine de Senlis. The contenders have 19 nominations between them, and both are included in the 14th edition of Rendez-Vous with French Cinema series, which begins next week at Lincoln Center. And the 2009 series is the best in years, Stephen Holden writes. PAGE C1
Music Review
Monetary Policy and Reggae Beats
Perhaps only a band from Washington, like Thievery Corporation, would be so determined to mix policy wonkery and dance-club rhythms. Even the Federal Reserve was mentioned during the band's concert on Wednesday at Terminal 5. PAGE C3
SEINFELD RETURNING TO NBC
Jerry Seinfeld will return to the network as the producer of a prime-time reality series called ''The Marriage Refs.'' The show will be about funny marital spats PAGE C3
Kids Rule at New York Film Festival C10
Theater Review
Mingling in Grover's Corners
Here come Howie Newsome and his horse, Bessie, delivering the morning milk, and you're sitting in the middle of Main Street. The intimate production of Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town'' -- which opened at the Barrow Street Theater on Thursday -- is modest but highly rewarding, Charles Isherwood writes. PAGE C1
SCHOOL UNDOES 'RENT' CANCELLATION
A California high school production of ''Rent: School Edition'' that was canceled because of concerns about content and the right of the principal to review the musical's script, has now been approved by the principal for an April 2009 production, school officials announced. PAGE C2
Television Review
'Magnum P.I.' Finds Crime
Never move to a town with a heavenly sounding name. On Sunday on CBS, Tom Selleck returns as Jesse Stone, the police chief of Paradise, Mass., in ''Thin Ice,'' the fifth television movie in the Jesse Stone series. PAGE C16
Art Reviews
Create Compulsively, Die Young
At the Museum of Modern Art, works by the German artist Martin Kippenberger are spilling out of top-floor galleries and down into the atrium. Mr. Kippenberger, who died in 1997 at 44, made art in many forms and in prolific quantities. ''Martin Kippenberger: The Problem Perspective'' includes paintings, drawings, sculptures, photographs, prints, posters and books. PAGE C21
BRuCKE: BAD BOYS OF GERMAN ART
''Brucke: The Birth of Expressionism in Dresden and Berlin, 1905-1913,'' packs several galleries at Neue Galerie with the groups' saturated colors, rough-edged motifs, unfinished surfaces and less-than-idealized nudes. PAGE C21
Museums Exchange Tycoons' Tastes C23
Looking Back at France's Bronze Age C26
Editorial
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S BUDGET
President Obama's first budget commits to cutting in half by 2012 the $1.75 trillion budget deficit that George W. Bush dumped on the nation. It also recognizes what most of Washington has been too scared or ideologically blind to admit: to recover from Mr. Bush's economic policies, taxes must go up. Page A22
PROGRESS ON HEALTH CARE
President Obama's budget plan makes a bold and long overdue commitment to overhaul the dysfunctional and costly American health care system. It won't come close to paying for universal coverage, but the president has now made health care reform a top priority, and this plan is a sound start. Page A22
DRUG CARTELS' RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS
The hypocrisy grows all too gruesome: The Justice Department pronounced the Mexican drug cartels ''a national security threat'' this week, even as American gun dealers along the border were busily arming the cartels' murderous gangs. Page A22
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
President Obama's new budget represents a huge break, not just with the policies of the past eight years, but with policy trends over the past 30 years. If he can get anything like the plan he announced on Thursday through Congress, he will set America on a fundamentally new course. Page A23
YELLOW IS THE NEW GREEN
The way we dispose of sewage wastes energy and pollutes the water, writes Rose George, the author of ''The Big Necessity,'' in an Op-Ed article. Instead of sending urine into the wastewater supply to be treated at great expense, we should divert it to other uses, like fertilization. Page A23
GLIDING ACROSS VERMONT
The 300-mile Catamount Trail runs from Massachusetts to Quebec. Cross-country skiers along Section 15, which spans Vermont, are treated to winter-laced views of the state's forests and farmlands. Page D1
Havens
Maine for Winter Sports
The Lakes District of Maine is defined by its excellent conditions for winter sports. Skiers, snow-shoers and even ice fishermen have been drawn to the area and residents say it is just as attractive in the warmer months. Page D3
ARE THERE WALRUSES?
The Porcupine Mountains Wilderness State Park on the south shore of Lake Superior is the destination for a family's cold-weather camping trip. The children can wander, and wonder, among one of the largest tracts of virgin forest. There's time for a nap, a child's questions about walruses and even s'mores. Page D4
Correction: March 3, 2009, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A capsule summary on Friday for a sports article about the federal judge presiding over the perjury trial of Barry Bonds misstated her surname. As the article correctly noted, she is Susan Illston, not Ellison.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); SENTENCING (86%); MAMMALS (83%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); REFUGEES (68%); VERDICTS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); VIRUSES (61%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); ETHNICITY (60%); HERPES INFECTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (66%) IRAQ (93%); CHINA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SERBIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (90%); JORDAN (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1095 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: The Last Option

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- If there were any remaining questions in Washington about the depths of financial problems at General Motors, they were answered Thursday by the automaker's dismal 2008 results.
On the same day that G.M.'s chairman, Rick Wagoner, met with President Obama's auto task force, the automaker said it lost $30.9 billion last year and could not survive much longer without additional government loans. Compared with the complex issues facing government officials in the faltering financial markets, G.M.'s plight is stark and simple.
G.M.'s thin cash cushion continues to dwindle by billions of dollars each month, and the automaker is depending on $16.6 billion more in federal aid to survive through 2009 while it continues to cut employees, shrink its brand lineup and close more plants. 
''G.M. requires this funding to continue operations until global automotive sales recover and its restructuring actions generate benefits,'' the company said.
With United States vehicle demand falling to its lowest level in 25 years, G.M.'s revenue has plummeted, and it cannot cut fast enough to stabilize its finances. It has no access to conventional bank loans and no alternative other than bankruptcy unless it receives more federal aid.
''The company will survive only as a result of actions of the U.S. government,'' said John Casesa, a principal in the automotive consulting firm Casesa Shapiro Group. ''G.M.'s future is in the hands of the government.''
Mr. Wagoner and two other G.M. executives made their case for more federal aid in their first meeting with the task force named recently by the president.
In a full day of discussions held at the Treasury Department, Mr. Wagoner gave the group more details on the revamping plan that it submitted to the government last week.
In its year-end report, G.M. declined to include an opinion from its auditors that the automaker has a future as a ''going concern.'' That decision has been delayed pending the outcome of its latest loan requests, which G.M. has said it needs to receive by the end of March, or it risks becoming insolvent.
''We don't know if we're going to receive additional government funding,'' G.M.'s chief financial officer, Ray Young, said in a conference call with analysts and media on Thursday.
A G.M. spokesman, Greg Martin, said the meeting was ''the beginning of the hard work ahead'' for the company and the task force, which is headed by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Lawrence H. Summers, the head of the National Economic Council.
''We found a genuine willingness among the task force to understand our business, industry challenges and G.M.'s restructuring plan,'' Mr. Martin said.
The Treasury Department did not respond to a request for comment.
The meeting came a day after executives of Chrysler met with the task force to discuss their request for another $5 billion in federal loans on top of the $4 billion Chrysler has already received.
G.M. and Chrysler were given their existing loans by President Bush in the final days of his administration in December. But while the first loans allowed the companies to avoid bankruptcy, the assistance represented only a stop-gap.
Vehicle sales have continued to plunge this year as nervous consumers shun big-ticket purchases like cars. Even willing buyers are still finding it difficult to qualify for loans to buy a new vehicle.
The combination of declining consumer confidence and a lack of available credit wreaked havoc on the revenue and earnings of virtually all automakers last year.
G.M.'s loss closes the books on a miserable year in the domestic auto industry. Together, G.M, Ford Motor and Chrysler lost a combined $53.4 billion in 2008.
G.M. said Thursday that it lost $9.6 billion in the fourth quarter, and reduced its cash reserves by $6.2 billion during the three-month period.
The automaker revealed Thursday that it came perilously close to insolvency at the end of the year.
The company said that it had $14 billion in cash at the end of the fourth quarter -- confirming its statements in December that it was perilously close to insolvency -- and stayed above the bare minimum levels of cash it needs only by virtue of receiving the first installment of its $13.4 billion in federal loans.
G.M.'s revenue plummeted 34 percent during the quarter, to $30.8 billion, as sales fell markedly in every region of the world.
Its overall loss for the quarter included $3.7 billion in special charges including write-downs on its Hummer and Saab brands, costs associated with downsizing its work force and plants, and an increase in reserves to cover pension obligations at Delphi, its bankrupt former parts unit.
For the year, G.M.'s worldwide vehicle sales dropped 11 percent, to 8.35 million vehicles.
Mr. Wagoner said that 2008 ''was an extremely difficult year for the U.S. and global auto markets, especially the second half.''
In its viability plan presented to the Obama administration, G.M. pledged to cut 47,000 jobs around the world this year. Broader cost-cutting goals, the company said in the plan, will help it reach a break-even point by 2011.
But G.M. is expected to have negative cash flow of $14 billion for this year, making further government loans critical to its continuing operations.
''G.M. can't raise more capital in the private markets, it can't influence demand and it can't adjust its cost structure enough in the short-term,'' Mr. Casesa said. ''There is no economic solution, only a political one.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Wagoner, left, the chairman of General Motors, met with the auto task force appointed by President Obama.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT, REBECCA COOK
RIGHT, CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B1)
 A sale at a Chevrolet dealership in Park Ridge, Ill.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGE)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011



1096 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Political Skills Put to the Test

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Whatever else it is, President Obama's budget is a political gamble of the first order.
In his ambition to put his own stamp on liberalism and to move domestic policy leftward, Mr. Obama has much going for him.
The nation seems to be yearning for leadership, and his political standing is strong. In an era where taxpayers and markets are confronting bad numbers in the trillions, the price tags on some of his initiatives do not seem quite so breathtaking, and, in any case, good economic policy demands that the fiscal floodgates remain open for a while. Populist anger could render Republican arguments against taxing the rich less powerful. 
But Mr. Obama faces many constraints. He is asking Congress to take on a wide-ranging set of complicated issues all at once, after years during which it had trouble grappling directly with almost any of them. His own party remains seared by the last time it followed a new Democratic president on a course of tax increases and ambitious social engineering. Interest groups, while demonized by the White House, have hardly fled from Washington and are already mobilizing for battles that could have big winners and losers.
Like Ronald Reagan and Franklin D. Roosevelt, Mr. Obama ''does have the advantage of a crisis,'' said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma.
''The politics of the country are changing profoundly and rapidly,'' Mr. Cole continued, ''much as they did in 1932 and 1980.''
But, he added, ''if he is wrong, and I believe he is, Democrats will pay a hefty political price.''
Whether Mr. Obama has overreached or succeeded in putting the nation on a sharply different course will largely depend on the same political skills that delivered him the presidency.
To translate the vision embedded in his budget into legislation he can sign into law will require assembling coalitions on Capitol Hill issue by issue, holding together his own party while peeling off Republicans here and there. To keep the pressure on Congress, he will have to keep public opinion on his side through what could be a long, deep recession and through necessary but unpopular steps like allocating hundreds of billions more taxpayer dollars to bailing out banks.
''The economic crisis has destroyed the credibility of the premises that have dominated public debate since the late 1970s,'' said William Galston, a top White House policy aide under President Bill Clinton. ''This doesn't mean that Obama has sold his alternative, only that he has an opening to make his case.''
These Reagan-era political premises largely emerged from stagflation, in which high inflation and slow growth during the 1970s crimped the rise in living standards that American families had enjoyed after World War II. With top income tax rates then at 70 percent, the conservative movement Reagan led prevailed by persuading middle- and upper-income voters that tax cuts, reduced regulation and less government spending on social programs would benefit them.
Mr. Clinton challenged those premises during the 1990s, promoting a combination of tax increases, deficit reduction and ''investments'' in health care and other priorities that foreshadowed Mr. Obama's approach. But the force of the nation's political turn toward markets and away from government curbed his agenda; Congressional Republicans blocked his ''stimulus'' spending and took control of Congress a year after he pushed through tax increases, and soon he declared, ''The era of big government is over.''
Now Mr. Obama is building a case that an era of Republican dominance has bequeathed a set of problems that demand a more active government capable of restoring fairness to the American model of democratic capitalism.
Fearful Americans have watched their retirement savings decline with the Dow Jones industrial average, enhancing appetites for government help instead of the vagaries of the markets. They have grown angry at those they hold responsible, notably corporations and the lavishly paid executives who run them.
''The public is ready for a new burst of activism and to pay for it in part by raising taxes on what you might call the undeserving rich,'' said Will Marshall, a policy adviser to the Democratic Party's centrist, pro-business wing.
Tony Fabrizio, a Republican pollster, said, ''If the battle is, 'You can have free health care if we only tax rich people making over $250,000 a year,' most will say, 'Where do I sign up for the free stuff?' ''
Yet the same electorate has also grown convinced that much government spending is wasteful. And the attacks on Democratic tax increases that proved so powerful for Reagan and then for Congressional Republicans under Newt Gingrich have not lost all their potency. ''This is dangerous territory and can be taken a step too far,'' said Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster.
Republicans have begun scouring Mr. Obama's budget for ammunition to persuade middle-class voters they will be hurt.
Mr. Obama's senior adviser, David Axelrod, predicted that the president would be shielded from political fallout by his decision to direct tax increases toward the most affluent; to focus on priorities like energy, education and health care; and to monitor the effectiveness of government programs. Asked about opponents' ''tax and spend'' charges, Mr. Axelrod replied, ''You shouldn't get trapped in an old construct.''
One new construct lies in the shape of the Obama-era electorate. For reasons that in some cases are unrelated to economics, like social issues or the Iraq war, many of those affluent taxpayers the president wants to finance his agenda enter the debate as his supporters, not opponents.
In November, exit polls showed, Mr. Obama defeated Senator John McCain among voters with incomes of $200,000 or more by 52 percent to 46 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Larger-Than-Expected Deficit Forecasts: SURPLUS OR DEFICIT IN TODAY'S DOLLARS: President Obama's budget proposal estimates a deficit of $1.75 trillion for the current fiscal year, and $1.17 trillion in 2010.
AS A PERCENTAGE OF G.D.P.: Even after adjusting for the size of the economy, the annual deficit is expected to be larger than it has been since World War II.
 HISTORICAL PROJECTIONS: Mr. Obama aims to shrink the annual deficit to $533 billion by the end of his term. But 80 percent of past four-year projections have been too optimistic, off by $270 billion, on average.(Source: Office of Management and Budget)(CHARTS BY AMANDA COX/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); WORLD WAR II (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TAX LAW (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); RECESSION (72%); INCOME TAX (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); TOM COLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011



1097 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Fannie Mae Says It Needs Another $15 Billion in U.S. Aid

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Fannie Mae said on Thursday that it needed at least $15.2 billion in government aid because it lost nearly $59 billion last year as the foreclosure crisis mushroomed. 
 Fannie Mae, the mortgage finance company, lost $25.2 billion, or $4.47 a share, in the fourth quarter. That compares with a loss of $3.6 billion, or $3.80 a share, a year earlier.
 Fannie's net worth fell below zero at the end of the quarter, forcing the company to request funding from the government for the first time.
 The government seized control of Fannie Mae and its sibling Freddie Mac in September and last week doubled their lifelines to $200 billion each to guarantee they would never fail.
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the increase in cash was ''not a judgment about the expected losses ahead. It's just a way to make sure people understand that they will be able to play this role going forward.''
 Fannie Mae, which is based in Washington, said its fourth-quarter loss was driven by $12 billion in credit losses because of declining housing market conditions, $12.3 billion in losses on derivatives and $4.6 billion in write-downs of the value of its mortgage-backed securities.
 ''We expect economic conditions and falling home prices to continue to negatively affect our credit performance in 2009, which will cause our credit losses to increase,'' Fannie Mae said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.
 Freddie Mac has said it is likely to require as much as $35 billion in federal support on top of the $13.8 billion it received last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FORECLOSURE (79%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1098 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Dell Income Drops 48% As It Seeks To Cut Costs

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
During past downturns in technology spending, Dell tended to boast about its ability to weather the conditions better than competitors bogged down by higher-priced goods and cumbersome business models. 
 In 2009, no such gloating has been heard.
 Like its peers, Dell has watched as businesses and consumers have sharply curtailed technology purchases. The decline in sales has proved so severe that Dell's earnings have fallen to the lowest level since 2002. 
 On Thursday, Dell reported that net income for the fourth quarter, ended Jan. 30, fell 48 percent, to $351 million from $679 million reported in the fourth quarter of the prior year. Revenue tumbled 16 percent, to $13.4 billion from $16 billion. 
 Excluding one-time expenses, Dell earned 29 cents a share, 3 cents better than the consensus forecast of Wall Street analysts, according to Thomson Reuters. 
 Instead of tough talk about trouncing competitors, Dell executives are focusing on their efforts to streamline the company. 
 The stronger-than-expected earnings reflect work done as part of a $3 billion cost-cutting program, which has included layoffs, the closing of manufacturing plants and a shift toward using contract manufacturers to build more of its laptops. 
 Dell, based in Round Rock, Tex., said Thursday that it would cut $1 billion more in annual costs over the next two years to improve the bottom line. 
 ''We will be the first to admit that this is a work in progress, and there is more to do,'' Brian T. Gladden, the company's chief financial officer, told Wall Street analysts in a call to discuss the quarterly results.
 Meanwhile, Dell's 18-month effort to move away from personal computers and increase sales in potential higher-profit growth areas has stalled with the broader economy. 
 ''They are doing what they can, but are basically still treading water,'' said Richard Kugele, an analyst with Needham & Company.
 The main drag on Dell's revenue came from plummeting desktop and laptop computer sales, which dropped 27 percent and 17 percent, respectively. Sales of Dell's servers, software and services also fell, leaving storage products as the only area of growth. 
 Michael S. Dell, the company's founder and chief executive, insisted that it had made progress as part of a turnaround effort he started in 2007. 
 ''Our strategy is to develop disruptive technology and innovation and shift our business to higher margin products and services,'' Mr. Dell said on the call. 
 But in fact, Dell's overall business appears very similar to what it was last year. 
 For example, servers and higher-profit services and software account for the same overall percentage of Dell's revenue as they did last year. And despite making its way into 24,000 retail outlets, Dell derives only 2 percent more of its revenue from consumer sales than it did a year ago. 
 Investors may give Dell some leeway with its long-term transition given the state of the economy, which makes growth and expansion into new markets difficult. Still, they are demanding that Dell maintain profits in the near term as it chases changes in strategy.
 ''I think the issue is that their profitability today is much lower than it was historically,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, a securities analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein.
 Dell's once-vaunted direct sales model continues to trail the overall profitability of Hewlett-Packard's PC operation, Mr. Sacconaghi said. 
 Competitors like Hewlett-Packard and I.B.M. have also proved better equipped to deal with stagnant hardware orders because of vast services businesses, software sales and long-term contracts with customers. 
 Shares of Dell fell 15 cents, to $8.21 Thursday, before the earnings announcement. In after-hours trading, Dell shares rose more than 1.8 percent, to $8.36.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); CLOSINGS (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%)

COMPANY: NEEDHAM & CO INC (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1099 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Initial Jobless Claims Rise, And New-Home Sales Fall

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The faltering economy sent up more distress signals on Thursday, indications that the problems in manufacturing, housing and the labor markets were only multiplying.
 Taken together, the economic reports reflected the stark pace of declines in a recession that began in December 2007. With unemployment rising as businesses cut costs and slash their payrolls, consumers are reducing their spending and putting off major purchases, including new homes. 
 ''What catches your eye is the uniformity of this breathtaking descent,'' the chief economist at ITG, Robert J. Barbera, said. ''You've got incomprehensibly weak home sales, violent declines for businesses buying capital goods, and a new brutal jump for jobless claims.''
 The number of first-time unemployment claims rose 36,000, to a seasonally adjusted 667,000 last week, its highest point in 26 years. Continuing claims for jobless benefits topped 5 million for the first time ever, rising to 5.112 million for the week ended Feb. 14. 
 Economists said the spike in continuing jobless claims was a bad omen for February's unemployment numbers, which will be released on March 6. The unemployment rate for January was 7.6 percent, and economists expect it will rise to 7.9 percent for February.
 Orders for durable goods, products expected to last at least three years, fell $9 billion, or 5.2 percent, to $163.8 billion in January, the Commerce Department reported Thursday. It was the sixth month of declines.
 Shipments of durable goods fell 3.7 percent while unfilled orders fell 1.9 percent as manufacturers cut orders for metal goods, machinery, computers, motor vehicles and other goods. 
 ''January was a horrifically terrible, awful month for manufacturing, no matter how you slice it,'' said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI.
 The Commerce Department reported on Thursday that new-home sales fell 10.2 percent in January from December, to an annual pace of 309,000. 
 ''For another month we had to shelve even any distant light at the end of the tunnel,'' said Michael Feroli, United States economist at JPMorgan Economics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Bell of Hollywood, Fla., who is unemployed, gave his resume to a career counselor Thursday. The number of first-time unemployment claims rose by 36,000, to an adjusted 667,000.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN DIAZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); SHIPMENTS (73%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1100 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.C.A.A. ROUNDUP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Memphis Notches 19th Win In a Row

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Doneal Mack and Antonio Anderson made consecutive 3-pointers to help fuel a decisive run by No. 5 Memphis in a 71-60 victory at Alabama-Birmingham on Thursday night, clinching the Tigers' fourth consecutive Conference USA regular-season title. 
 The Tigers (25-3, 13-0) won their 19th straight over all, the nation's longest winning streak, and 55th in a row in the conference.
 The Blazers (19-9, 9-4) handed the Tigers their last conference loss three years ago.
 XAVIER 68, ST. JOSEPH'S 54 Derrick Brown had 18 points and 10 rebounds to lead No. 19 Xavier (23-5, 11-3 Atlantic 10) past St. Joseph's (14-13, 7-6) at the Palestra. 
 MICHIGAN 87, PURDUE 78 DeShawn Sims scored a career-high 29 points to lead host Michigan (18-11, 8-8 Big Ten) against No. 16 Purdue (21-7, 10-5).
 WAKE FOREST 85, N.C. STATE 78 James Johnson had 28 points and 18 rebounds to lead No. 13 Wake Forest (21-5, 8-5 Atlantic Coast Conference) past visiting North Carolina State (15-11, 5-8). 
 BUTLER 78, YOUNGSTOWN ST. 57 Matt Howard had 25 points as No. 24 Butler (24-4, 14-3) beat visiting Youngstown State (11-17, 7-10), clinching at least a share of its third straight Horizon League regular-season championship.
 ILLINOIS 52, MINNESOTA 41 Mike Davis scored 14 points and Trent Meacham had 13 to lead No. 20 Illinois (23-6, 11-5 Big Ten) against visiting Minnesota (20-8, 8-8). 
 IN OTHER GAMES Robert Morris (20-10, 14-3) clinched the Northeast Conference regular-season title with a 74-62 victory at St. Francis of Pennsylvania (5-23, 2-15). ... Sacred Heart (15-13, 12-6 NEC) won, 76-73, at St. Francis of Brooklyn (10-18, 7-10). ... Long Island (15-13, 11-6 NEC) ended a five-game road losing streak with an 85-67 victory at Fairleigh Dickinson (7-22, 6-11).
 CALL FOR CALHOUN REPRIMAND The leaders of the Connecticut General Assembly's higher education committee want UConn Coach Jim Calhoun reprimanded for his tirade at a freelance journalist who questioned his $1.6 million salary. Calhoun said in a statement that his comments were misinterpreted as being insensitive to the economic climate.
 GRIFFIN STILL RECOVERING Oklahoma Coach Jeff Capel said that the preseason all-American Blake Griffin was still recovering from a concussion and that it was not clear when he would return.
 Women
 NORTH CAROLINA 90, MIAMI 76 Cetera DeGraffenreid scored 23 points as No. 9 North Carolina beat visiting Miami. The Tar Heels (25-4, 10-3 A.C.C.) have won eight of nine. The Hurricanes (13-15, 2-11) lost their fourth consecutive game. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); BRAIN INJURIES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (83%); PURDUE UNIVERSITY (83%); ST JOSEPH'S UNIVERSITY (83%); WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (82%); NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1101 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Jacobs Wants to See Burress Return to Giants

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
Having agreed to a long-term contract with the Giants, the star running back Brandon Jacobs addressed a more delicate subject Thursday: the possible return of wide receiver Plaxico Burress next season from suspension and a gunshot wound.
 Jacobs, whose new contract includes $13 million guaranteed and could pay him $25 million for four seasons, said he had been in contact with Burress through text messages. 
 ''The guy knows how close he came to losing everything he's got,'' Jacobs said of Burress. ''I think his mind is right now.'' 
 Burress has a March 31 court date in Manhattan on firearms charges. He accidentally shot himself in the leg at a Manhattan nightclub on Nov. 29. 
 ''Everybody's praying and hoping he won't go to jail,'' Jacobs said in a telephone conference call with reporters. The Giants have been noncommittal about bringing back Burress.
 Burress has filed a grievance through the N.F.L. Players Association to recover lost wages and bonus money. His agent, Drew Rosenhaus, recently sent an e-mail message to N.F.L. teams suggesting that Burress might be available in a trade.
 Last season was the first for Burress on a seven-year contract that could pay him up to $35 million. Jacobs said Thursday that he thought Burress would prefer to stay with the Giants.
 ''He never said to me that he didn't,'' Jacobs said. ''We're close enough that he can tell me what he's got on his mind.''
 Jerry Reese, the general manager, has said several times that the Giants will be open to the possibility of Burress's return. Tom Coughlin, the coach, has been less enthusiastic and said last week that he had not spoken recently with Burress.
 With the veteran receiver Amani Toomer about to become a free agent Friday and the Giants having shown little interest in signing him, the team appears to have a need at that position.
 ''We need to get No. 17 back,'' Jacobs said, referring to Burress.
 Another possible opening on the roster involves Derrick Ward, the second running back, who will also become a free agent Friday. ''With the nature of the business, I don't expect to see him back,'' Jacobs said.
 But Jacobs said that he had been in contact with Ward and that he expected the Giants to try to sign him. ''They're going to take a crack at it,'' Jacobs said. ''They're going to give it a shot. I would love to see him back.''
 Jacobs was also asked about his contract in the context of the nation's worsening economic conditions. He said that he did not think they played a part in his negotiations and that he doubted whether the recession affected the business over all.
 ''Quite honestly, Giants Stadium is full for years to come, recession or not,'' Jacobs said. ''The tickets are paid for already. Jerseys are being sold, more and more and more every day.''
 Earlier this month, the Giants designated Jacobs as a franchise player, guaranteeing him $6.6 million next season but making it more difficult for him to leave as a free agent. Although this strategy sometimes frustrates players, it helped in Jacobs's case to work toward a long-term deal.
 ''I kind of got everything I wanted guaranteed,'' Jacobs said. ''I didn't really miss out on that much on the back end. Couple dollars here and there, but it was fine.''
 Jacobs earned $927,000 last season while leading the team in rushing with 1,089 yards and scoring 15 touchdowns. On Thursday he was at an airport, planning to take his family to Disney World.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); SHOOTINGS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (71%); FIREARMS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1102 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2114 words

HEADLINE: Film Series and Movie Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Film Series
 BREADLINES AND CHAMPAGNE (Friday through Thursday) Several rare titles are on tap for the final week of this Film Forum series devoted to movies of the Great Depression. First and foremost is Raoul Walsh's terrifically entertaining 1932 working-class comedy, ''Me and My Gal'' (Monday), with Spencer Tracy as a beat cop on the Lower East Side, and Joan Bennett as his hash-house inamorata. It's screening with John G. Adolfi's 1932 ''Central Park,'' a lively, anecdotal account of a day in the life of the city, starring Joan Blondell and Wallace Ford. On Thursday Roy Del Ruth's just-under-the-wire pre-Code 1934 drama, ''Upperworld,'' starring the great smoothie Warren William as a philandering railroad tycoon, shares a bill with a hard-to-see Universal production from 1932, ''Night World,'' a speakeasy story starring Mae Clarke and Boris Karloff, who had appeared together the year before in ''Frankenstein.'' Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110, filmforum.org; $11. (Dave Kehr) 
 FILMMAKER IN FOCUS: RAMIN BAHRANI (Wednesday and Thursday) This overview of the developing career of Mr. Bahrani, a young independent filmmaker, includes his first two features, ''Man Push Cart'' (2005) and ''Chop Shop'' (2007), and a preview of his third, ''Goodbye Solo'' -- the story of a Senegalese immigrant who finds work as a cab driver in North Carolina. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)
 'JUST ANYBODY' (Tuesday) The French filmmaker Jacques Doillon will be present to introduce his newest feature, the story of a young woman who falls in love with a dangerous drifter, as part of a continuing retrospective of his work. At 7 p.m., French Institute/Alliance Francaise, Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6100, fiaf.org; $10. (Kehr) 
 MUSIC AND THE MOVIES: THE LEONARD ROSENMAN LEGACY (Monday) The New York University Symphony Orchestra performs a tribute to this innovative film composer, whose scores include those for ''Rebel Without a Cause,'' ''Barry Lyndon'' and ''Bound for Glory.'' The program includes four short films by N.Y.U. students that will be shown with scores composed by film-scoring majors from the N.Y.U. Steinhardt School. At 8 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 992-8484, skirballcenter.nyu.edu; free. (Kehr)
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'CHE' (R, 4:17, in Spanish and English; shown in two parts, 2:09 and 2:08) Nearly four and a half hours long and spanning more than a decade, ''Che'' surely deserves the overworked, frequently misapplied label of epic. But it's a narrow epic, and while Benicio Del Toro, in the title role, offers a performance that's technically flawless, the movie is politically naive and dramatically inert. (A. O. Scott)
 'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk. (Manohla Dargis)
 'CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC' (PG, 1:40) Like the flailing American economy, this comedy with Isla Fisher wants to eat its conspicuous-consumption cake and have its spiritual redemption too. (Dargis)
 'CORALINE' (PG, 1:40) Henry Selick's adaptation of Neil Gaiman's novel is exquisitely beautiful and creepy in the best ways. (Scott) 
 'THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON' (PG-13, 2:47) A hothouse blossom of romance, intrigue and breathtaking digital effects from David Fincher (''Zodiac,'' ''Fight Club''). Brad Pitt stars as a man who ages backward, but it is Cate Blanchett who provides the film's delicate, graceful emotional center of gravity. (Scott) 
 'DELHI-6' (No rating, 2:20, in Hindi and English) The director Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra has found a way to make personal films within the commercial Hindi cinema. And ''Delhi-6,'' his ambitious new work, means to be nothing less than a referendum on the modern Indian soul. Sadly, the film is bogged down by its own good intentions, though Abhishek Bachchan, heading a large ensemble cast, does his best to keep things light. (Rachel Saltz) 
 'DOUBT' (PG-13, 1:44) Adapted by John Patrick Shanley from his stage play, this drama about a Roman Catholic priest suspected of child molestation stars a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman as the accused and an energetic, often wackily comic Meryl Streep as his accuser. (Dargis)
 'FIRED UP!' (PG-13, 1:29) Two teenage boys attend cheerleading camp. Puppy love, nubile flesh and unexpectedly funny jokes follow. (Dargis)
 'FRIDAY THE 13TH' (R, 1:30) An undying slasher-flick franchise gets a surprisingly decent reboot in this stylish, playful example of the decapitated-hottie genre. (Nathan Lee) 
 'FROST/NIXON' (R, 2:02) It's twinkle (Michael Sheen) versus glower (Frank Langella) in Ron Howard's amusing, facile edition of the Peter Morgan theatrical smackdown. (Dargis)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. (Stephen Holden)
 'GOMORRAH' (No rating, 2:15, in Italian) Based on the 2006 expose of the same title by the Italian journalist Roberto Saviano, this corrosive, ferociously unsentimental fictionalized look at organized crime from the director Matteo Garrone is also a bracing corrective to the sentimentalized Mafia thug popularized on both the big and small screen. (Dargis)
 'GRAN TORINO' (R, 1:56) Once again Clint Eastwood shows everyone how it's done, with a sleek muscle car of a movie set in that industrial graveyard called Detroit about a racist who befriends a besieged Hmong family next door. (Dargis)
 'HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU' (PG-13, 2:12) And neither am I. 
 (Dargis) 
 'HOTEL FOR DOGS' (PG, 1:40) Children and dogs: those two magic words distill the appeal of this cuter-than-cute, sweeter-than-sweet family film about animal-loving kids who embark on a crusade to rescue all the stray pooches in a fictional city. (Holden)
 'THE INTERNATIONAL' (R, 1:58) A murderous bank, pursued by Clive Owen and Naomi Watts. Much less interesting, and also less frightening, than a daily perusal of the business pages. (Scott) 
 'I'VE LOVED YOU SO LONG' (PG-13, 1:55, in French) The French novelist Philippe Claudel, making his debut as a director, shows sobriety and restraint in this story of a woman making her way back into normal life after serving a prison sentence for the murder of her son. Kristin Scott Thomas gives a remarkable lead performance, and Elsa Zylberstein as her sister is nearly as good. A climactic plot twist cheapens and diminishes the film somewhat, but it is still, for the most part, a powerful and subtle melodrama. (Scott)
 'KATYN' (No rating, 2:01, in Polish) This solemn and searing new film by Andrzej Wajda explores, with elegant concision, both the events leading up to the massacre of thousands of Polish prisoners of war and its aftermath. (Scott)
 'LET THE RIGHT ONE IN' (No rating, 1:54, in Swedish) A charming and chilling Swedish love story directed by Tomas Alfredson about a lonely boy and the girl next door who may just happen to be a vampire. (Dargis)
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'MILK' (R, 2:08) Gus Van Sant's film about Harvey Milk (1930-78), the San Francisco City supervisor who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the country, is less a standard biopic than a sharp, lyrical history lesson, touching not only on a crucial decade in the gay-rights movement but also on the rough and tumble of big-city politics and the tricky ways of love. Sean Penn outdoes himself as Milk, balancing his intense conviction with an unusual and welcome playfulness. The large supporting cast is also excellent, and includes James Franco as Milk's lover and campaign manager, Scott Smith, and Josh Brolin as Dan White, Milk's colleague on the Board of Supervisors and also his murderer. (Scott)
 'MUST READ AFTER MY DEATH' (No rating, 1:16) After his grandmother died in 2001, the director Morgan Dews artfully pieced together remnants from her personal archive to create a fascinating and disquietingly intimate portrait of a 1960s American family falling apart. (Dargis)
 'PAUL BLART: MALL COP' (PG, 1:30) Fat people are funny. Fat people who run into things are funnier. Fat people who run into things and have humiliating working-class jobs? Stop, you're killing me! (Nathan Lee)
 'THE PINK PANTHER 2' (PG, 1:32) Hoary slapstick routines, only marginally funny, are all there is in this disorganized hodgepodge of juvenile pranks starring an overstressed Steve Martin. (Holden)
 'PUSH' (PG-13, 2:01) Navigating a Hong Kong bristling with partly constructed skyscrapers, a telekinetic (Chris Evans) and a clairvoyant (Dakota Fanning) hunt for a mysterious suitcase while dodging a pair of Chinese brothers whose screams can pop blood vessels. Paul McGuigan directs with maximum efficiency and minimum reliance on computers, creating a landscape crawling with mind controllers and human bloodhounds. The only ability in short supply is acting. (Jeannette Catsoulis) 
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'THE READER' (R, 2:03) You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and also asks us to pity a death camp guard. Kate Winslet plays the guard; Stephen Daldry directs. (Dargis)
 'REVOLUTIONARY ROAD' (R, 1:59) Sam Mendes directs Kate Winslet and a fine Leonardo DiCaprio in a waxworks edition of the corrosive, furiously unsentimental novel by Richard Yates about an unhappy marriage in the mid-1950s. (Dargis)
 'SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE' (R, 2:00) A modern fairy tale from Danny Boyle (''Trainspotting'') about a pauper angling to become a prince, this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai, India, where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid that you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel. (Dargis)
 'TWO LOVERS' (R, 1:48) A ripe, old-school romantic melodrama, with Joaquin Phoenix as a young Brooklyn man torn between the pull of duty and the dream of escape, and also between the title figures, played by Vinessa Shaw and Gwyneth Paltrow. With Isabella Rosselini as a Jewish mother beyond Alexander Portnoy's wildest dreams. (Scott) 
 'THE UNINVITED' (PG-13, 1:27) Regrets only. (A. O. Scott)
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'WALTZ WITH BASHIR' (R, 1:27) Ari Folman's animated documentary about Israeli soldiers haunted by memories of the 1982 Lebanon war is part memoir, part dream, part combat picture and altogether amazing. (Scott)
 'WENDY AND LUCY' (R, 1:20) In Kelly Reichardt's latest film Michelle Williams plays Wendy, a lonely young woman who encounters a run of bad luck while drifting through Oregon and Washington with her dog, Lucy. At first glance the film seems like little more than an extended anecdote, but underneath this plain narrative surface is a lucid and melancholy inquiry into the current state of American society. (Scott) 
 'THE WRESTLER' (R, 1:45) Mickey Rourke, with sly, hulking grace, stars as a washed-up wrestler hoping for a comeback. But like its hero, the movie has a blunt, exuberant honesty, pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair. (Scott) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (64%); MUSIC (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1103 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (Discovery) AMERICAN LOGGERS Fifty years ago Gerald Pelletier began a logging business with $100 and a truck. Now his sons oversee the company, which employs dozens of men who use hundreds of machines to harvest timber on thousands of acres in Maine's rural northwest backcountry. This new series follows the Pelletier brothers and their sons as they climb into their big rigs and follow the logging route known as the Golden Road, the lone passage between civilization and the largest swath of unprotected forest north of the Mississippi.
 8 P.M. (ABC) WIFE SWAPSusan Peters, who, with her tiara-wearing husband, teaches yoga and allows their 10-year-old son to rule the household, trades places with Beth Vaughn, the wife of a dairy farmer and a strict disciplinarian who wants her children to know that life is not a barrel of laughs. 
 8 P.M. (CBS) GHOST WHISPERER Melinda (Jennifer Love Hewitt) confides in Sam (Kenneth Mitchell) about her gift and gets an unexpected reaction.
 8 P.M. (Fox) TERMINATOR: THE SARAH CONNOR CHRONICLES After a series of nightmares keeps her awake, Sarah (Lena Headey, right, with Thomas Dekker) visits a sleep clinic, where she ponders the motives of Skynet.
 8:30 P.M. (TV5Monde USA) THE 34TH ANNUAL CESAR AWARDS The French Academy of Film Arts and Sciences bestows honors on French and foreign movies at the Theatre du Chatelet in Paris. Nominees for best foreign film include James Gray's ''Two Lovers,'' Paul Thomas Anderson's ''There Will Be Blood'' and Sean Penn's ''Into the Wild.'' Antoine de Cauness is host. Charlotte Gainsbourg is the honorary president.
 9 P.M. (13); 10 P.M. (49) BILL MOYERS JOURNAL The economist Robert Johnson decodes recent information on the bank bailout.
 9 P.M. (Animal Planet) JOCKEYS When Joe Talamo's winning streak suddenly stops, he asks the hall of fame rider Mike Smith, a k a the Icon, to teach him ''the way of the horse.'' Later some famous jockeys come out of retirement and lay it all on the line for one last race.
 9 P.M. (ABC) SUPERNANNY Jo Frost returns to Britain to rein in the chaos in the home of Natalie and Martin Williams, whose four children pester their mother while their father sits at the computer and watches. It could be that Mr. Williams is in for a little disciplinary action himself.
 9 P.M. (BBC America) MISTRESSES Richard (Patrick Baladi) and Trudi (Sharon Small) have an awkward first date; Hari (Raza Jaffrey) and Siobhan (Orla Brady) consult a doctor about her inability to conceive and discover the problem may be his; Katie (Sarah Parish) shares a kiss with Sam (Max Brown), the son of her recently deceased lover; and Jessica (Shelley Conn) is tempted by some unfamiliar feelings when she goes with Alex (Anna Torv of Fox's ''Fringe''), her lesbian bridal client, to try on wedding dresses.
 9 P.M. (CBS) FLASHPOINT The team, led by Ed Lane (Hugh Dillon, left), is called when three men take a mortgage company executive hostage. Recruits are interviewed to fill in for Jules (Amy Jo Johnson), recovering after being shot. 
 9 P.M. (Fox) DOLLHOUSE Subtitle this one ''The Bodyguard'': Echo (Eliza Dushku) provides protection to a pop star by becoming her backup singer. 
 9 P.M. (NBC) FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS J. D. McCoy (Jeremy Sumpter), the increasingly popular new quarterback, undergoes trial by fire in the big game. Meanwhile Landry (Jesse Plemons) thinks he has met the perfect girl in Devin (Stephanie Hunt).
 9 P.M. (TLC) WHAT NOT TO WEAR Stacy London and Clinton Kelly help Lynn, winner of a makeover in the show's recent Times Square casting call, update her 1980s wardrobe for the 21st century.
 9 P.M. (VH1) BLACK TO THE FUTUREDavid Alan Grier wraps up this four-part series with a look at African-Americans' contributions to pop culture in the 21st century. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); FILM (86%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (77%); WILDLIFE (75%); SLEEP DISORDERS (66%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); FILM GENRES (64%); BANK FAILURES (50%); BAILOUTS (50%)

COMPANY: TV5 MONDE SA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (54%) MAINE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1104 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MUSIC REVIEW THIEVERY CORPORATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Federal Reserve: The Funk Will Get You

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
''This one goes out to the world banking system,'' Archie Steele announced at Thievery Corporation's concert on Wednesday night at Terminal 5. ''This one is called 'Vampires.' '' Then, over some Nigerian-style Afrobeat, he denounced economic manipulation in Africa, singing, ''Bank loans and policies/They can't make our people free.'' Other songs in the band's two-hour-plus set, full of midtempo vamps and throbbing bass lines, mentioned the Federal Reserve, called for revolution and declared, ''The toil of the many goes to the fortunate few.'' 
 Perhaps only a band from Washington, like Thievery Corporation, would be so determined to mix policy wonkery and dance-club rhythms. Thievery Corporation's core members, Rob Garza and Eric Hilton, are musicians, disc jockeys and programmers who envision a worldwide resistance backed by rhythm.
 On albums they use samples, studio musicians and guest stars; on tour they bring a band, a high-tech video installation and a parade of singers, male and female, from places including Argentina, Brazil, Guyana, Iran and Jamaica. The lyrics were in English, French, Jamaican patois, Spanish and Portuguese, along with a chorus of ''Hare Krishna.'' Every so often the guitarist Rob Myers switched to sitar. It's music for one struggling world in many separate genres. 
 Thievery Corporation brings a disc-jockey mentality to its songs; despite those occasional sitar melodies, the duo selects styles more than they fuse them. Mr. Garza and Mr. Hilton favor songs that aren't too fast and (mostly) not too slow, the kind that can bubble in the background on an album or make heads bob on a dance floor.
 Most of their agitprop is designed to sink in smoothly, not to spark an insurrection, although they do have an upbeat song, ''El Pueblo Unido,'' built around the Spanish version of ''The people united will never be defeated,'' that brought all the female singers together near the end of the concert.
 There were many reggae variations, from straightforward roots style to spacey dub; there was James Brown funk and its Afrobeat extension; Washington's own go-go beat; Brazilian carnival and capoeira rhythms; soca, salsa, even a few down-tempo club chansons. 
 In its songwriting Thievery Corporation sometimes settles for what a disc jockey can get away with: steady grooves rather than song forms, hypnosis rather than development. That matters more on its album tracks, which can run overlong, than at a concert show with video screens flashing and singers working the crowd. 
 Yet what disc jockeys do best, pacing a set, flagged at the end. By the time the band returned for its last encore, after a long pause, half the audience had left. And like true policy wonks, Thievery Corporation wound up not with a party but with a dirge -- ''Marching the Hate Machines'' -- about problems still on the agenda. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A music review last Friday about Thievery Corporation at Terminal 5, using information from a publicist, misidentified the vocalist on the song ''Vampires.'' It was Arthur Steele, not his brother, Archie.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A crowd of audience members dancing onstage Wednesday at Terminal 5, near the end of the Thievery Corporation show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); MUSIC (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (76%); SONG WRITING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); AFRICA (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARGENTINA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1105 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Debt Tests Canadian Media Company

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
CanWest Global Communications, Canada's leading newspaper publisher and a major television broadcaster, may soon be nearing default on its crushing debt load and possibly facing bankruptcy.
 The company, which also controls a television network in Australia as well as The New Republic magazine in the United States, has until Friday to renegotiate a credit facility of 300 million Canadian dollars, or $241 million. This week, DBRS, a Toronto-based credit rating agency, said that failure to cut a deal would put the company, which has an overall debt of 3.9 billion Canadian dollars ($3.1 billion), in default.
 The likely outcome of the company's talks with its lenders, led by the Bank of Nova Scotia, as well as potential investors, is unclear. It could bring severe changes to Canada's media market if assets were sold. 
 As the company scrambled to find a solution for its financial problems, several analysts speculated that the Asper family, which founded CanWest and still controls it through a special voting share, might soon find itself on the outside.
 The company was started in 1974 by Israel H. Asper, a former tax lawyer, Liberal politician and newspaper columnist, operating a single independent television station in his home province, Manitoba. The equipment was trucked across the border from a failed station in North Dakota.
 But it was Mr. Asper's rescue of Global Television, an ambitious but struggling network based in Toronto, later in that decade that turned CanWest into a national player. Mr. Asper died in 2003 and was succeeded by his three children.
 CanWest bought 13 newspapers -- including the leading English-language dailies in Vancouver, Ottawa and Montreal as well as The National Post -- from a company controlled by Conrad M. Black in 2000, raising widespread debate in Canada about the Aspers' control of news in Canada. Now the question has become: will the Aspers be able control their creation?
 ''One of the wonderful ironies of all this,'' said Christopher Waddell, a professor of business and financial journalism at Carleton University in Ottawa, ''is that people have wondered about the editorial effects of corporate concentration, when it turns out what was created was a financial weakling.''
 Like most private broadcasters in English-speaking Canada, Global owes its financial success to federal cable television rules. Whenever Mr. Asper's network broadcasts imported American programming, cable companies were required to substitute Global's signal -- and its advertising -- for American channels broadcasting the same show.
 Although Global produced its own programming, notably the cult comedy show ''Second City Television,'' or ''SCTV,'' unions and cultural groups have frequently criticized the company for skirting, in their view, the intent of other regulations that require networks to also present Canadian programming.
 In 2000, Leonard J. Asper, one of Israel Asper's children and the company's president and chief executive, helped his father engineer the 3.5 billion Canadian dollar newspaper deal with Hollinger International, Mr. Black's main holding company at the time.
 The price was seen as high even then, and the purchase created the debt that plagues the company today. But the Aspers argued that significant new revenue would flow from combining the print, broadcasting and Internet operations.
 Instead, the performance of the company's main over-the-air networks began declining as Canadians increasingly turned to specialty cable and satellite channels, a segment CanWest had neglected. 
 Burdened with debt from the newspaper deal, CanWest entered into a partnership with Goldman Sachs Capital Partners two years ago to acquire several of Canada's most successful specialty channels. 
 Goldman put up the bulk of the 2.3 billion Canadian dollar purchase price in an arrangement so complex that Robert Bek, an analyst who follows CanWest for the forecaster CIBC World Markets, said that it still defies complete understanding by outsiders. (Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the deal.)
 Although CanWest has had a drop in advertising from the recession, Mr. Bek and most other analysts say that the company's current problems are more related to its debt than its operating performance.
 ''The Canadian newspaper market is certainly not robust, but not as desperate or as dire as in the U.S.,'' Mr. Bek said. In the six months ending last September, the independent Audit Bureau of Circulations found that weekday newspaper circulation had risen 1.28 percent in Canada but fallen 4.6 percent in the United States.
 CanWest, based in Winnipeg, Manitoba, hoped to sell some assets to cut debt. But the plan had limited success.
 The relationship with Goldman has apparently made CanWest's most attractive properties, the cable channels, unavailable. This month it abandoned plans to sell some of its controlling stake in Network Ten in Australia. 
 CanWest has also been trying to sell five over-the-air Canadian television stations it operates separately from the Global chain. Ominously, its main private sector competitor, CTVglobemedia, determined this week that two of its stations were worth little and said that it would close them, a step CanWest has indicated might be possible for some of its properties. 
 Further limiting the potential for asset sales are laws that prohibit foreign companies from buying the broadcasting properties or the newspapers.
 Divisions among the creditors have led several analysts to believe that the company would be given time beyond Friday to seek a deal, all deadlines aside. Few of them, however, expect that CanWest will be successful and able to avoid a reorganization or even bankruptcy, either of which would be likely to end the Aspers' control.
 John Douglas, a spokesman for CanWest, declined to comment on the specifics of the negotiations but said that the company was working toward a solution and continuing to improve its balance sheet.
 ''Things always tend to be more complicated than you'd like them to be,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); LAWYERS (52%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (70%)

TICKER: BNS (TSX) (70%); BNS (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%); MANITOBA, CANADA (58%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1106 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Becoming A Nanny: Less Money, More Joy

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Three months ago, had she been interviewed about her job, Ms. L. would happily have used her real name, instead of just an initial, but that was back when she went to work every morning in a suit, heels and hose, sat at a computer and filed reports on deadline the way professional types do. 
 That was back when she got to her office in Midtown by 8:30 every morning, eager to keep her benefits and her job managing others' benefits as a human resources coordinator at a major luxury retailer. 
 These days, Ms. L., once a financial analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank (a second vice president), a 55-year-old with an accounting degree, gets paid off the books, at least for now, which is why she spoke on the condition of anonymity. She has taken a steep pay cut, and she has one of those really young, inexperienced bosses. 
 At least the two get along. ''She's so content, always smiling at you,'' said Ms. L. as she sat in the lobby of an apartment building on West End Avenue, bouncing on her knee a 5-month-old with a pink hair clip. Instead of adhering to the schedule of a mercurial administrator under the gun from all sides, Ms. L. now follows the schedule familiar to so many New York City nannies: stroll, music class, playground schmooze, lunch, nap. 
 From glossy professional to nanny -- it's not like Ms. L. is a former chief executive waltzing around Manhattan with a sandwich board advertising her services, but it was definitely a career zag that she had never anticipated. Her own daughter, who is 25 and thinking about applying to law school, was horrified. 
 ''She said, 'Mom, you don't want to be a nanny,' '' Ms. L. recounted, dangling a pastel-striped toy in front of her ward's hands. '' 'You're so smart, you're so capable.' She thought I should be in the corporate world.'' 
 The same day that Ms. L. heard from her employer that she had been laid off, a neighborhood friend shared that she and her husband had just parted ways with their nanny. Could Ms. L. possibly fill in for a week? She agreed -- but only for a week. 
 The friend, who spoke on the condition that she be referred to only as Ms. G., insisted on paying her. ''She told me she was going to keep looking for other jobs,'' said Ms. G., who is 44 and runs her own business.
 Ms. L. said she sent out about 10 resumes, and even got one job offer, but it was in Westchester, and without a car, it wasn't practical. The weeks wore on, her prospects looked less and less inviting, and she started to realize that she sort of liked this new gig.
 ''My own son just got married, but it'll be years before he has children,'' she said. ''Now I don't mind so much.'' 
 Ms. G. said she was thrilled to have a close friend looking after her daughter (and fluffy white dog). ''My husband and I walk out the door in the morning, look back at the door, and smile,'' she said.
 SOMEONE once said that the first thing to say to a person who has lost a job is ''Congratulations.'' 
 It's a perspective that really works only in boom times, when the newly unemployed may well have been misplaced in their positions, rather than passive victims in a sweeping historical downturn. 
 Even in this economy, however, there may be plenty of New Yorkers who either have enough savings or are lucky enough to have a partner with a lucrative career -- as Ms. L., whose husband is a day trader, does -- and have, through the shake-up, gotten yet another luxury: a forced opportunity to re-examine their lives. 
 ''I'm much happier,'' said Ms. L. ''All my friends tell me I seem so relaxed. And I just love this baby.''
 She said she does miss the snappy feeling of getting dressed for work every morning, and her new, long hours -- 8:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. -- are filled with some of the aspects of nannydom that are sheer drudgery: changing diapers and washing bottles and singing nonsense songs over and over. Her pay does not reflect her vast professional experience -- or her own experience as a mother, for that matter: She earns about $12 an hour, which, by New York standards, is actually on the low end of the nanny scale. 
 It was a pay sacrifice Ms. L. was willing to make. ''I don't do housekeeping,'' she said.
 She has her limits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LUXURY GOODS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1107 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'CAST IN BRONZE'; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Looking Back at France's Own Bronze Age

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON. 
''Cast in Bronze: French Sculpture From Renaissance to Revolution'' is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org, through May 24.

 BODY:
If French bronze sculpture of the 17th and 18th centuries is not your thing, you probably have plenty of company. For nonspecialists, ''Cast in Bronze: French Sculpture From Renaissance to Revolution'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art will be a tough sell.
 With a few notable exceptions the roughly 125 statuettes, portrait busts, reliefs and small equestrian monuments in this exhibition display a cold impersonality, cramped imagination and slavish obeisance to the official culture of their times. This is not art discovering new possibilities of romantic individualism but a conservative, backward-looking genre that affirms and celebrates imperial power and order. 
 It is not too surprising to learn that even art historians have shied away; this is the first major museum exhibition ever to tackle the subject. It was organized by Ian Wardropper and James David Draper of the Met's department of European sculpture and decorative arts along with curators at the Louvre in Paris, where it had its debut, and the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, where it will reopen in June.
 The show begins promisingly with Pierre Biard the Elder's ''Fame,'' a life-size, luxuriantly winged angel balanced on one leg and blowing a no-longer-present trumpet. While harking back to classical Greek and Roman sculpture, the figure's lithe, nude body has a lively, somewhat lumpy naturalism. It is based on the famous sculpture of Mercury by Giambologna, who, along with other Italians, was a giant influence on French sculptors.
 Next comes a large funerary relief of a muscular, bearded man lying in the sleep of death, by Jean Goujon from about 1560. Naked but for a swath of fabric covering his hips, he rests his head on a richly brocaded pillow and holds four poppies in one hand. A powerful, archaic energy animates the sculpture, yet it exudes a melancholic, meditative mood as well. 
 By contrast Germain Pilon's low-relief ''Lamentation over the Dead Christ'' (from around 1583), which hangs on an adjacent wall, is marked by a delicate, expressionistic dynamism. Dressed in voluminous robes, mourners gathered around the naked, well-built body of the dead Jesus merge into an all-over flux of flowing drapery as if into swirling water. Light glinting off the high points of the darkly patinated surface enhances the effects of mobility and turbulent emotion. 
 If much of the rest of the show evinces a stifling traditionalism, that has partly to do with the economics of bronze production. Enormously challenging technically, and therefore expensive and time consuming, it required the patronage of kings, queens and other fabulously rich and powerful people. And since large bronze sculptures were usually commissioned to serve institutional functions -- for churches, tombs, architectural decoration and public monuments -- the sort of sensuous imagination you find in French painting is absent. You will find almost nothing like the poetry of Watteau, the tender realism of Chardin or the cheery prurience of Boucher. 
 (It is also important to note that much French bronze sculpture was melted down for other uses or destroyed during the French Revolution.)
 Among the show's portraits are works of considerable sensitivity, including a sweet head of the 5-year-old Louis XIV by Jacques Sarazin. No matter how well done, however, it is hard to get excited by the formal portrait bust. 
 Even most of the desktop-size works created for the private delectation of a burgeoning collecting class lack the sort of inventive idiosyncrasy you might hope for. In the many statuettes representing Greek and Roman gods decorous elegance prevails. There are exceptions. Among the few unabashedly sexy works is a pair of exquisite doll-size nudes -- a Venus and a hermaphrodite -- reclining on beds supported by their original, elaborately carved and gold-leafed wooden bases. Dating from the mid 17th century, they were made by a follower of Thibault Poissant. 
 Another showstopper is a late-17th-century group of small sculptures representing episodes in the life of Hercules by Francois Lespingola. In ''The Infant Hercules Strangling the Serpent Sent by Juno'' an improbably large toddler in a flamboyant Baroque cradle grabs a dragon-headed snake by the neck as his mother, Alcmena, runs away in terror, toppling a pitcher of water in her panic. These action-packed Hercules sculptures have a marvelously detailed narrative urgency. 
 The show's weirdest piece, ''The French Parnassus,'' on view in the Petrie European Sculpture Court, represents a rocky mountain top occupied by dozens of historical and mythic figures. It celebrates an ensemble of famous artists, including Racine, Moliere, La Fontaine and Corneille, with Louis XIV as Apollo presiding at the top. More cultural heroes are represented by medallions. Executed between 1718 and 1721 by Louis Garnier, with later additions by Simon Cure and Augustin Pajou, this bizarre sculpture was designed by Evrard Titon du Tillet, who hoped it would eventually be translated into a great stone monument, a kind of French Mount Rushmore. It never happened. 
 The one instance of Romanticism is a low relief by Louis-Jacques Pillon, in which Pollux drives away a bat-winged figure of death from a sick young woman, that is almost painterly in its effects. Its nightmarish, visionary quality is a blessed departure from the turgid Baroque Classicism of many of the exhibition's other works. 
 As for the most beautiful piece, that would be Jean-Antoine Houdon's ''Winter or La Frileuse,'' a life-size statue of a young woman with a shawl wrapped around her bowed head and shoulders. With arms tightly clasped, she appears to shiver from the cold; she is, after all, nude from the waist down. The eroticism of this half-covered figure was not lost on jurors of the Salon of 1785; they proposed that she be displayed with her back in a corner so that viewers would not be disturbed by her extraordinarily shapely posterior. (A part of the shawl covers her in front). In the present exhibition, fortunately, you can view her from all sides. She is heartbreakingly lovely. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Fame'' by Pierre Biard the Elder, from the exhibition ''Cast in Bronze: French Sculpture From Renaissance to Revolution''at the Metropolitan Museum of Art through May 24.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DON EMMERT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 ''Winter or La Frileuse'' by Jean-Antoine Houdon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HISTORY (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CLASSICS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ART HISTORY (73%); RELIGION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1108 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Tensions Rise in Fragile Bosnia as Country's Serbs Threaten to Seek Independence

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: PRAGUE 

 BODY:
Bosnian Serb leaders have threatened to pull out of state institutions and are pressing anew for independence from Bosnia and Herzegovina, threatening to throw the fragile, multiethnic country into political crisis once again. 
 Analysts and observers of the region said the situation could unravel the United States-brokered Dayton accords of 1995, which ended a savage war that killed more than 100,000 people, most of them Muslims, between 1992 and 1995. The pact divided Bosnia and Herzegovina into a Muslim-Croat Federation and a Serb Republic, presided over by a decentralized political system that reinforced rather than healed ethnic divisions.
 The crisis comes at a critical time, just a few weeks after the United Nations and European Union envoy to Bosnia, Miroslav Lajcak, was appointed foreign minister of his native Slovakia, creating what analysts called a potentially dangerous power vacuum. United Nations officials stressed Tuesday that Mr. Lajcak would continue to exercise his powers until a replacement was found. 
 Srecko Latal, a Bosnia specialist at the Balkan Investigative Reporting Network in Sarajevo, the country's capital, warned that the West, distracted by the global financial crisis, Iraq and Afghanistan, was ignoring trouble signs in Bosnia, in its own backyard. ''The United States and the European Union must engage, not just for the sake of Bosnia but because the world can't afford to allow what happened the last time,'' he said. 
 Bosnia's security is guaranteed by 2,000 European Union peacekeepers. But Mr. Latal said the force was not strong enough to contain hostilities, should they erupt. Sketching a worst-case possibility, he warned that if the Serb Republic declared independence, neighboring Croatia would respond by sending in troops, and Bosnian Muslims would take up arms.
 Bosnian Serb officials, Western diplomats and the police said the crisis began last week when the country's state police agency sent a report to the State Prosecutor's Office with allegations involving the Serb Republic's prime minister, Milorad Dodik. 
 The case outlined in the State Investigation and Protection Agency report related to corruption, fraud and misuse of finances involving several important government contracts in the Bosnian Serb Republic. They included allegations concerning a $146 million government building in Banja Luka.
 Gordan Milosevic, a spokesman for Mr. Dodik, said Tuesday by telephone that the allegations were politically motivated. He said the case breached due process because it had been forwarded without the approval of top Bosnian Serb officials in the State Investigation and Protection Agency and the prosecutor's office.
 Mr. Dodik expressed indignation last weekend, saying he was the victim of a witch hunt aimed at undermining him and the Bosnian Serb Republic. ''Even the little faith I had in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is now lost due to this farce with the criminal charges against me,'' he said last week. ''They have made this country pointless.''
 He also vented his ire at a meeting in Mostar, where leaders of Bosnia's three main ethnic groups were discussing how to press forward with changes to the Constitution. Attendees at the meeting said Mr. Dodik stormed out after one hour. Before leaving, they said, he delivered an ultimatum that a new constitution could proceed only if it affirmed the right of the Bosnian Serb Republic to national self-determination and enshrined its right to hold a referendum on independence.
 Adding to the tensions, Mr. Dodik said recently that the investigation against him had probably been devised by the deputy United Nations high representative in Bosnia, Raffi Gregorian. In November, Mr. Dodik filed criminal charges against Mr. Gregorian and foreign prosecutors in Bosnia, accusing them of plotting against his government after they opened a corruption investigation into the Serb Republic's awarding of government contracts. 
 The Serbian member of the country's three-member presidency, Nebojsa Radmanovic, called over the weekend on all Bosnian Serb political parties, citizens and nongovernmental organizations to support the Bosnian Serb government. One Serbian veterans' association warned that Bosnia's Muslims were secretly arming themselves, and Bishop Grigorije, head of the Serbian Orthodox Church, warned that ''nobody should play around with Republika Srpska.''
 But Western diplomats and officials on both sides of the ethnic divide stressed that the conflict was a political war of words that was unlikely to spill over into violence. ''Dodik wants to make clear that the right of the Republika Srpska to exist is beyond dispute,'' said Mr. Milosevic, Mr. Dodik's spokesman. ''No one wants war.''
 Serbian analysts said that Mr. Dodik had no intention of seceding, at least in the near term, and that he was using the international political vacuum in Bosnia to cement his control over the republic.
 Beyond the obvious threat of provoking a war, they said, secession was not an attractive option for Mr. Dodik, because it would mean aligning the Serb Republic with Serbia or Russia, which would severely diminish his power. It also would inevitably lead to international isolation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A fraud case against the Serb Republic's prime minister, Milorad Dodik, precipitated a crisis. Bosnia is made up of a Muslim-Croat Federation and a Serb Republic, and divisions are strong.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMIR SAGOLJ/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); POLITICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); APPROVALS (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); CORRUPTION (66%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CROATIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SLOVAKIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1109 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; BASEBALL ROUNDUP; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: The Dodgers Try Again, And Ramirez Says No

BYLINE: By JACK CURRY

 BODY:
The so-far fruitless negotiations between Manny Ramirez and the Los Angeles Dodgers stalled again Thursday night when Ramirez and his agent, Scott Boras, rejected the team's offer of a one-year, $25 million contract with a player option for $20 million in the second year. 
 Frank McCourt, the owner of the Dodgers, said that future negotiations with Ramirez would have to ''start from scratch.'' The Dodgers issued a news release that said Boras had rejected four of their offers to Ramirez.
 ''We love Manny Ramirez,'' McCourt said. ''And we want Manny back, but we feel we are negotiating against ourselves. When his agent finds those 'serious offers' from other clubs, we'll be happy to restart the negotiations.''
 BANK SAYS NO DEAL Bank of America announced that it pulled out of negotiations last month to become a top-level sponsor at Yankee Stadium, in part because of the economic crisis.
 ''Certainly, the economy was a consideration,'' said Joseph Goode, a spokesman for the bank. ''But there were a lot of complexities with these negotiations, not just the environment or the tone or mood of the country.''
 Bank of America, which has received $45 billion in Toxic Asset Relief Program funds, has been a Yankee sponsor since 1994 and an official team bank. Goode said it hoped to maintain some sort of business relationship with the Yankees. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BASEBALL (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); TOXIC ASSETS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1110 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Months In, Insurers Ask Whether Aid Is on Its Way

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The Treasury's evolving program to bolster the nation's financial system does not address directly a key group: insurance companies. 
 Though they were led to believe that the second wave of money released by the Treasury would help some of them, insurers are now uncertain what if any relief might come their way. And banks navigating the government's new rules are suggesting that their insurance counterparts should also be subject to strict new eligibility requirements. 
 Twelve insurers applied for money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program last November, including some big ones and some that have not identified themselves. Some had to jump through hoops just to submit applications, buying thrift institutions and adding new layers of federal regulation. 
 Since then, the faces at the Treasury have changed and so have the rules of the TARP, including new tests of the strength of the biggest banks and strict limits on executive bonuses for companies getting federal aid. America's biggest insurer, the American International Group, hemorrhaging from continued losses, still seems to enjoy bottomless support from the government, which rescued it last fall and installed new management.
 But the rest of the insurance industry has growing needs and little indication that any support will be coming its way. 
 ''As we say in the monastic life, it's the magnum silencium -- the great silence,'' said Frank Keating, president of the American Council of Life Insurers, which lobbied last fall to make sure its members would have access to the TARP if they needed it. ''We have not had our phone calls answered.''
 Economic conditions have deteriorated since the insurers applied. A number of insurers have suffered declines in their credit ratings this month, including MetLife, Prudential Financial, Principal Financial and Hartford Financial Services. Others, like Lincoln National and Genworth Financial, are being reviewed with an eye toward downgrades. All these companies, except MetLife, have indicated they applied for federal aid, as have the Phoenix Companies and Protective Life. 
 Hartford Financial attracted particular attention earlier this month when it announced a year-end loss of $2.71 a share, more than twice what analysts had expected. The company is still considered adequately capitalized and able to pay its claims, but the results hammered its stock. 
 Hartford is losing some senior executives, presumably with nice exit packages. Across the industry, companies are sealing compensation packages that will not be disclosed until April.
 A spokesman for the Treasury, Isaac Baker, said that insurers seeking TARP money could still award bonuses and severance. That would change, though, if they received federal money. 
 At Hartford, Thomas M. Marra has announced he will be retiring as chief operating officer in July. Neal S. Wolin, the former head of Hartford's property and casualty business, resigned in January to join the Obama administration. 
 The company did not state whether Mr. Marra or Mr. Wolin would receive bonuses for 2008. Under his retirement terms, Mr. Marra will be eligible for a pension and deferred compensation package valued at $16 million at the end of 2007. If any of that was invested in Hartford stock, the value would be less today. 
 Mr. Keating of the American Council of Life Insurers said he was not aware of any insurers losing interest in the financial assistance because of the latest restrictions on executive bonuses.
 It was not yet clear whether insurance companies would also have to follow the new rules that require banks to undergo ''stress testing'' before they can receive more help from the Treasury. The largest banks were told this week that they would have to analyze how they would hold up under adverse conditions, like more declines in housing prices and unemployment above 10 percent. 
 The insurance industry is regulated by states, not the federal government.
 ''Insurance companies are very different from banks, so the stress test that you would run would have to be very different,'' said Douglas J. Elliott, a fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former investment banker who specialized in the insurance industry. 
 Testing insurance companies would be more complex than testing banks, in his view, because insurers can be hurt not only by investment losses and defaulting obligations, but also by events like hurricanes and giant product-liability awards. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (94%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (73%); LIFE INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BONUS PAY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%)

COMPANY: HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (74%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); PHOENIX COS INC (64%); GENWORTH FINANCIAL INC (53%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (54%)

TICKER: HIG (NYSE) (74%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); PNX (NYSE) (64%); GNW (NYSE) (53%); PRU (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (74%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (74%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (74%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (74%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (53%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (53%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1111 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; DRILLING DOWN ON THE BUDGET; Pg. 

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Welfare

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The president's budget assumes that some Americans will have to rely more on welfare and poverty-combating programs ''in these tough economic times,'' and accordingly calls for spending more on a variety of program. But it also foresees savings by aiming to weed out fraud, waste and abuse. 
 To make it easier for poor families to put food on the table, the Department of Agriculture's budget includes a temporary increase in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly Food Stamps, under the recently enacted economic stimulus package. The budget also includes money for a pilot program to increase participation among low-income elderly. The budget for the Department of Housing and Urban Development includes $4.5 billion for the Community Development Block Grant program, meant to promote investments to expand economic opportunities for low-income families. Housing needs are addressed in a variety of ways, including $1 billion for a program to develop, rehabilitate and preserve affordable housing for families with very low incomes and increased financing for a program to preserve about 1.3 million rental units through contracts with owners of multi-family properties.
 The document proposes investing more than $6 billion on cancer research and more than $4 billion to expand health-care services for American Indians and Alaska natives, in addition to more money to detect, prevent and treat AIDS. Other areas addressed under spending for the Department of Health and Human Services include additional financing for Early Head Start and Head Start, $73 million to improve health care in rural areas and support for state and local efforts to reduce pregnancy among teen-agers.
 The budget for Health and Human Services calls for savings through stricter scrutiny of Medicare and Medicaid spending, while the blueprint for Housing and Urban Development envisions an intensified campaign against mortgage fraud and predatory loan practices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); MEDICAID (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (72%); MEDICARE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); CITIES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (67%); ONCOLOGY (66%); HEALTH CARE (65%); RURAL HEALTH (65%); NATIVE AMERICANS (65%); PREDATORY LENDING (62%); GRANTS & GIFTS (54%); AIDS & HIV (52%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (51%); CANCER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1112 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Belt-Tightening Could Dampen Free Agency

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
When N.F.L. free agency begins Friday, players may get a sense of what retail store managers have known for months: only the need-them-to-survive items will sell quickly at full price, and everything else could be marked down within days. 
 The recession has hit the N.F.L. 
 Teams and the league office have cited it as the reason for layoffs and frozen pay, even though N.F.L. revenue is estimated at $7.5 billion. And now the gloom-and-doom mood of the average consumer is expected to seep into the thinking of general managers, even if the rich will get only slightly less richer than usual. But there is concern that if the recession lingers, normally reliable revenue streams, like marketing deals and luxury box seats, could slow.
 ''Everyone has felt the pinch, and while there is a lot of cap room, there may not be a desire to part with a lot of cash, especially for midlevel free agents,'' Bill Polian, the Indianapolis Colts' president, said. ''The future clearly is unsettled. The fact is that everyone has suffered because of this. All you have to do is look at your 401(k) statement. It's not as though somebody is immune. You look at the value of the home, 401(k), if you're lucky enough to have a vacation home, all of that stuff has been reduced in value at least 30 percent. That has a chastening effect on people.''
 The salary cap this year is $127 million. Teams received an additional $4 million per club above the original cap increase because spending on player costs in recent years fell below a predetermined percentage of league revenue.
 And there are plenty of teams with room to spend. Tampa Bay, after a purge of several veterans, including linebacker Derrick Brooks, is a whopping $60 million under the cap. Salary-cap room is usually an indicator of how active teams will be, but that is not necessarily the case this year.
 Giants General Manager Jerry Reese said general managers were concerned about the guaranteed money that will have to be paid -- in the form of signing and roster bonuses -- because that requires money in the bank, a potential problem for teams whose margins are squeezed by the rising costs of doing business. The timing, then, is particularly tricky for general managers who are likely to be faced with demands for more guaranteed money in the first two years of new contracts this season, because of the potential for a work stoppage in 2011 if no new collective bargaining agreement is negotiated.
 N.F.L. free agency has often mirrored baseball free agency, and all but the top-tier baseball free agents -- the C. C. Sabathias and Mark Teixeiras -- felt the pinch this winter. Despite record revenues for baseball last season, teams pulled back. Some players, like Bobby Abreu, figured to land lucrative multiyear deals and instead went unsigned until accepting one-year contracts later in the winter. Manny Ramirez, a top-flight player, remains unsigned with spring training already in full swing. 
 The parallels in football are already clear, with several premier players signing eye-popping deals. Earlier this month, Raiders cornerback Nnamdi Asomugha, perhaps the best cornerback in the N.F.L., signed a record-shattering deal that, if the Raiders exercise an option for the third year, will be worth $45.3 million. He is guaranteed $28.5 million in the first two years -- making the first two years of the deal like a baseball contract, with all the money locked in. The deal is the richest ever for a cornerback and pays Asomugha an average annual salary that is more than 50 percent greater than that of any other cornerback.
 But it seems unlikely there will be many deals like the one guard Derrick Dockery received as a middle-tier free agent two years ago, when the Bills gave him a $49 million contract that included nearly $19 million in guarantees. Dockery was cut this week.
 That was bad news for anybody not named Albert Haynesworth, the Tennessee defensive tackle who is the jewel of a largely superstar-free class. Many of the other premier players who were eligible for free agency -- Baltimore's Terrell Suggs, Carolina's Julius Peppers and New England's Matt Cassel among them -- received the franchise tag from their current teams, meaning a suitor would have to give up draft picks in addition to offering a big-ticket contract. This year, 14 players received the franchise tag, a record. 
 ''In my view, that's done to avoid the larger guaranteed dollar amounts that go along with signing bonuses,'' the agent Ralph Cindrich said. ''Even though you have to pay whatever the franchise number is, it's for this year and it doesn't obligate you beyond. It gives you the opportunity to retain that player and yet see what's going to happen.''
 The ominous tone is no accident. As bleak as the economy is, much of the revenue that pays for contracts now was created earlier and is secure. But nobody knows what to expect if the economy does not improve by the end of the year. Will luxury box renewals go unsigned? Will season tickets remain unsold? Will marketing deals evaporate? Historically, income from certain revenue streams has risen steadily. But if the recession lingers, it could remain flat or even decline. 
 One player agent, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to influence negotiations, said, ''The real question is how it affects it in a year or two or three if we're not out of this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tennessee defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth (92) is among the few free agents likely to receive lucrative multiyear deals.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL COALE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BASEBALL (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); SPORTS REVENUES (77%); STRIKES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); US 401K PLANS (71%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (67%); SPORTS (67%); ATHLETES (62%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (60%); LAYOFFS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (77%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (77%); INDIANA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1113 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Carnegie Hall and Juilliard Trim Education Program

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Carnegie Hall and the Juilliard School have been forced to scale back the Academy, their grand experiment in music education that was designed both to train young professional musicians and to help public schools teach music to children. 
 Announced with much fanfare in the fall of 2006, the program has fallen victim to the recession. It will not audition a new crop of musicians for next year but will instead carry on with 15 second-year players and 5 alumni, cutting the effort nearly in half, Clive Gillinson, Carnegie's executive and artistic director, said in an interview on Thursday. 
 The two-year fellowship provided a stipend, high-level training and the chance to perform at Carnegie. In turn the fellows were each required to spend one and a half days a week in a New York City public school, teaching, coaching, leading ensembles or assisting a music teacher. Schoolchildren benefited, and so did the fellows. The teaching was designed to reinforce their sense of community engagement and to give them practical experience.
 The program is officially known as the Academy: A Program of Carnegie Hall, the Juilliard School and the Weill Music Institute, which is Carnegie's educational arm, and it presents concerts under the name Ensemble ACJW. 
 Mr. Gillinson said the schools were unwilling to pay the $8,000 yearly fee, and funding by the city's Education Department was uncertain; it amounted to $140,000 this year. At the same time Carnegie's ability to raise enough donations -- which covered most of the program's $2.4 million budget this year -- became doubtful, he said. Next year's budget will be $1.7 million.
 ''We reviewed the whole thing and looked at it and decided we had to reduce the number of fellows,'' Mr. Gillinson said.
 The reduction of fellows means some 13 public schools will lose an extra hand in teaching classical music, an area that many advocates say is already poorly served in the school system.
 Mr. Gillinson said Carnegie and Juilliard will decide later this year on the program's future scope, taking into account the economic picture. 
 The Ensemble ACJW has received strong reviews in performances at Carnegie. Mr. Gillinson said the reduction in players would not lead to notable reductions in concerts, but would mean that several large-scale pieces would not be performed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (93%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1114 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1553 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk. 
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC' (PG, 1:40) Like the flailing American economy, this comedy with Isla Fisher wants to eat its conspicuous-consumption cake and have its spiritual redemption too. (Dargis) 
 'CORALINE' (PG, 1:40) Henry Selick's adaptation of Neil Gaiman's novel is exquisitely beautiful and creepy in the best ways. (A. O. Scott) 'THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON' (PG-13, 2:47) A hothouse blossom of romance, intrigue and breathtaking digital effects from David Fincher (''Zodiac,'' ''Fight Club''). Brad Pitt stars as a man who ages backward, but it is Cate Blanchett who provides the film's delicate, graceful emotional center of gravity. (Scott) 
 'DELHI-6' (No rating, 2:20, in Hindi and English) The director Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra has found a way to make personal films within the commercial Hindi cinema. And ''Delhi-6,'' his ambitious new work, means to be nothing less than a referendum on the modern Indian soul. Sadly, the film is bogged down by its own good intentions, though Abhishek Bachchan, heading a large ensemble cast, does his best to keep things light. (Rachel Saltz) 
 'DOUBT' (PG-13, 1:44) Adapted by John Patrick Shanley from his stage play, this drama about a Roman Catholic priest suspected of child molestation stars a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman as the accused and an energetic, often wackily comic Meryl Streep as his accuser. (Dargis)
 'FIRED UP!' (PG-13, 1:29) Two teenage boys attend cheerleading camp. Puppy love, nubile flesh and unexpectedly funny jokes follow. (Dargis)
 'FRIDAY THE 13TH' (R, 1:30) An undying slasher-flick franchise gets a surprisingly decent reboot in this stylish, playful example of the decapitated-hottie genre. (Nathan Lee) 
 'FROST/NIXON' (R, 2:02) It's twinkle (Michael Sheen) versus glower (Frank Langella) in Ron Howard's amusing, facile edition of the Peter Morgan theatrical smackdown. 
 (Dargis)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. (Stephen Holden)
 'GOMORRAH' (No rating, 2:15, in Italian) Based on the 2006 expose of the same title by the Italian journalist Roberto Saviano, this corrosive, ferociously unsentimental fictionalized look at organized crime from the director Matteo Garrone is also a bracing corrective to the sentimentalized Mafia thug popularized on both the big and small screen. (Dargis)
 'HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU' (PG-13, 2:12) And neither am I. 
 (Dargis) 
 'THE INTERNATIONAL' (R, 1:58) A murderous bank, pursued by Clive Owen and Naomi Watts. Much less interesting, and also less frightening, than a daily perusal of the business pages. (Scott) 
 'KATYN' (No rating, 2:01, in Polish) This solemn and searing new film by Andrzej Wajda explores, with elegant concision, both the events leading up to the 1940 massacre of thousands of Polish prisoners of war and its aftermath. (Scott) 'MILK' (R, 2:08) Gus Van Sant's film about Harvey Milk (1930-78), the San Francisco City supervisor who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the country, is less a standard biopic than a sharp, lyrical history lesson, touching not only on a crucial decade in the gay-rights movement but also on the rough and tumble of big-city politics and the tricky ways of love. Sean Penn outdoes himself as Milk, balancing his intense conviction with an unusual and welcome playfulness. The large supporting cast is also excellent, and includes Josh Brolin as Dan White, Milk's colleague on the Board of Supervisors and also his murderer. (Scott)
 'MUST READ AFTER MY DEATH' (No rating, 1:16) After his grandmother died in 2001, the director Morgan Dews artfully pieced together remnants from her personal archive to create a fascinating and disquietingly intimate portrait of a 1960s American family falling apart. (Dargis)
 'THE PINK PANTHER 2' (PG, 1:32) Hoary slapstick routines, only marginally funny, are all there is in this disorganized hodgepodge of juvenile pranks starring an overstressed Steve Martin. (Holden)
 'PUSH' (PG-13, 2:01) Navigating a Hong Kong bristling with partly constructed skyscrapers, a telekinetic (Chris Evans) and a clairvoyant (Dakota Fanning) hunt for a mysterious suitcase while dodging a pair of Chinese brothers whose screams can pop blood vessels. Paul McGuigan directs with maximum efficiency and minimum reliance on computers, creating a landscape crawling with mind controllers and human bloodhounds. The only ability in short supply is acting. (Jeannette Catsoulis) 
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'THE READER' (R, 2:03) You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and also asks us to pity a death camp guard. Kate Winslet plays the guard; Stephen Daldry directs. (Dargis)
 'SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE' (R, 2:00) A modern fairy tale from Danny Boyle (''Trainspotting'') about a pauper angling to become a prince, this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai, India, where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid that you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel. (Dargis)
 'TWO LOVERS' (R, 1:48) A ripe, old-school romantic melodrama, with Joaquin Phoenix as a young Brooklyn man torn between the pull of duty and the dream of escape, and also between the title figures, played by Vinessa Shaw and Gwyneth Paltrow. With Isabella Rosselini as a Jewish mother beyond Alexander Portnoy's wildest dreams. (Scott) 
 'THE WRESTLER' (R, 1:45) Mickey Rourke, with sly, hulking grace, stars as a washed-up wrestler hoping for a comeback. But like its hero, the movie has a blunt, exuberant honesty, pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair. (Scott) 
 Film Series
 BREADLINES AND CHAMPAGNE (Friday through Thursday) Several rare titles are on tap for the final week of this Film Forum series devoted to movies of the Great Depression. First and foremost is Raoul Walsh's terrifically entertaining 1932 working-class comedy, ''Me and My Gal'' (Monday), with Spencer Tracy as a beat cop on the Lower East Side, and Joan Bennett as his hash-house inamorata. It's screening with John G. Adolfi's 1932 ''Central Park,'' a lively, anecdotal account of a day in the life of the city, starring Joan Blondell and Wallace Ford. On Thursday Roy Del Ruth's just-under-the-wire pre-Code 1934 drama, ''Upperworld,'' starring the great smoothie Warren William as a philandering railroad tycoon, shares a bill with a hard-to-see Universal production from 1932, ''Night World,'' a speakeasy story starring Mae Clarke and Boris Karloff, who had appeared together the year before in ''Frankenstein.'' Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110, filmforum.org; $11. (Dave Kehr)
 FILMMAKER IN FOCUS: RAMIN BAHRANI (Wednesday and Thursday) This overview of the developing career of Mr. Bahrani, a young independent filmmaker, includes his first two features, ''Man Push Cart'' (2005) and ''Chop Shop'' (2007), and a preview of his third, ''Goodbye Solo'' -- the story of a Senegalese immigrant who finds work as a cab driver in North Carolina. Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Kehr)
 'JUST ANYBODY' (Tuesday) The French filmmaker Jacques Doillon will be present to introduce his newest feature, the story of a young woman who falls in love with a dangerous drifter, as part of a continuing retrospective of his work. At 7 p.m., French Institute/Alliance Francaise, Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6100, fiaf.org; $10. (Kehr) 
 MUSIC AND THE MOVIES: THE LEONARD ROSENMAN LEGACY (Monday) The New York University Symphony Orchestra performs a tribute to this innovative film composer, whose scores include those for ''Rebel Without a Cause,'' ''Barry Lyndon'' and ''Bound for Glory.'' The program includes four short films by N.Y.U. students that will be shown with scores composed by film-scoring majors from the N.Y.U. Steinhardt School. At 8 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 992-8484, skirballcenter.nyu.edu; free. (Kehr)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'Katyn': Danuta Stenka stars in Andrzej Wajda's film, which explores the 1940 massacre of thousands of Polish prisoners of war.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KOCH LORBER FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); RELIGION (74%); HORROR FILMS (74%); CHILDREN (71%); CHILD ABUSE (61%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (61%); SEX OFFENSES (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: RON HOWARD (79%); MERYL STREEP (59%); BRAD PITT (59%); CATE BLANCHETT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (88%) INDIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1115 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Sharif Demonstrations Spread Across Punjab

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Sharon Otterman contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
Thousands of supporters of the opposition leader Nawaz Sharif protested across Punjab Province on Thursday, a day after the Supreme Court upheld a ruling barring him from holding elected office and removed his brother as the province's head of government.
 In Rawalpindi, demonstrators waved the green flags of the Pakistan Muslim League-N, the party headed by Mr. Sharif, and chanted slogans against President Asif Ali Zardari's government. While the protesters were mostly peaceful, some built barricades of burning tires and used rocks to smash the windows of stores and banks on a main shopping street, The Associated Press reported. 
 In Punjab's provincial capital, Lahore, the police herded 20 lawmakers from the Sharif brothers' party into police trucks as they gathered for a protest at the Punjab Assembly. The police allowed them to them clamber out as the crowd swelled with supporters, and they held a mock parliamentary session on the steps.
 ''We are democrats, and what we are seeing today is shameful,'' a lawmaker, Rana Iqbal, said, The Associated Press reported.
 Separately, Mr. Sharif addressed a rally on Thursday in Shekhupura, near Lahore, and called on the people of Pakistan to reject the court's decision.
 ''The decisions of the masses have always been trampled either by judges or dictators,'' he told the crowd of several thousand, Reuters reported. ''Today the decision of the people has to be accepted.''
 The protests Thursday appeared to be largely limited to Punjab Province, Mr. Sharif's power base. Mr. Sharif, a former prime minister, does not enjoy as much popularity in Pakistan's other three provinces, and one of the tests in the coming weeks will be whether he can muster significant support outside Punjab.
 The political confrontation was likely to serve as a distraction from the escalating insurgency of Al Qaeda and the Taliban that Washington was trying to persuade the government to focus on, political analysts said.
 Protests began soon after the court decision, as of supporters of the Pakistan Muslim League-N burned tires and ripped down posters of Mr. Zardari in Lahore and Rawalpindi.
 By Wednesday evening, the chamber of the Punjab Assembly was filled with Muslim League legislators chanting slogans and banging the desks.
 The Supreme Court disqualified Mr. Sharif, who twice served as prime minister in the 1990s, from holding public office because of a criminal conviction connected to the military coup that ousted him in 1999.
 In an attempt to forestall the coup, Mr. Sharif ordered that an aircraft carrying the head of the army, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, into Pakistan not be allowed to land. The coup succeeded, and Mr. Sharif was convicted on hijacking charges and forced into exile in Saudi Arabia.
 Mr. Musharraf served as president until last year and appointed the Supreme Court that made the ruling Wednesday under an emergency decree declared two years ago. Mr. Sharif has called the court illegal. Mr. Zardari has supported it. Their coalition government came apart over the issue last fall. 
 Mr. Sharif denounced the court decision as a politically motivated ruling orchestrated by his archrival, Mr. Zardari. ''It's an edict, not a verdict,'' Mr. Sharif said. Without offering proof, he also alleged that Mr. Zardari had tried to offer a business deal to his brother if he supported the legitimacy of the Supreme Court.
 The ruling also banned Mr. Zardari's brother, Shahbaz, from holding office, forcing him to step down immediately as chief minister of the Punjab. Hours later, Mr. Zardari ordered the provincial governor, Salman Taseer, a member of the president's political party, to administer the province for two months until the appointment of a new chief minister.
 The appointment of Mr. Taseer, a major ally of the president, to oversee the province appeared aimed at trying to weaken the hold of the Sharif brothers over the bureaucracy and key law enforcement posts.
 The ruling by the Supreme Court against the Sharif brothers had been anticipated for weeks. Their assessment that the court decision was political rather than judicial had also been expected. The ruling Pakistan Peoples Party said in a statement that the ruling was ''a court decision and has nothing to do with the government.'' It urged the Sharif brothers ''to control their supporters in the interest of democracy.''
 A spokeswoman for the government, Sherry Rehman, said, ''It's unfortunate the ferocity of the reaction and the personalized attack on the president has soured the atmosphere.'' She urged the Sharif brothers to join the government in the spirit of ''reconciliation'' to tackle the nation's economic problems.
 The standoff between Mr. Zardari and Mr. Sharif was considered so combustible that the ''government's future is uncertain,'' said Hasan Askari Rizvi, a columnist for The Daily Times, an English-language newspaper that is owned by Mr. Taseer. But it would take at least a month to see an outcome, he said.
 The Obama administration, which is currently conferring with the Pakistani government on new strategies to fight the insurgency, would be ''very concerned and upset'' by the political turmoil, Mr. Rizvi said.
 The prospect of a popular movement stirred up by Mr. Sharif was worrying because in the past such efforts in Pakistan had ''always resulted in a system that isn't democratic,'' Mr. Rizvi said.
 Among the factors adding to the political volatility were the relative showings of Mr. Zardari and Mr. Sharif in recent public opinion surveys.
 According to a poll taken in October and released in December by the International Republican Institute, a Washington-based outfit affiliated with the Republican Party, Mr. Sharif's approval ratings outstripped Mr. Zardari's by large margins.
 When asked who they would prefer to have as president, 59 percent of the respondents said they preferred Mr. Sharif, and 19 percent said they preferred Mr. Zardari.
 The poll was taken among 3,500 people between Oct. 15 and Oct. 30 in the four provinces of Pakistan, according to Robert Varsalone, the manager of the survey. The margin of error was 1.66 percentage points, he said.
 After the ruling on Wednesday, Mr. Sharif said he would join a protest by the lawyers' movement on March 12 intended to force the reinstatement of the former chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, whom Mr. Musharraf removed.
 Mr. Sharif has argued that Mr. Zardari was intent on keeping his replacement, Abdul Hameed Dogar, because Mr. Dogar would leave in place an amnesty on corruption charges that benefited Mr. Zardari. Mr. Zardari rejects the argument and has refused to reappoint Mr. Chaudhry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); COUPS (89%); APPEALS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TALIBAN (77%); HIJACKING (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); ARMED FORCES (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%)

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (92%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1116 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Limiting Deductions on Charity Draws Ire

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Wealthy donors and the nonprofit groups they support were in an uproar over the Obama administration's proposal to limit the value of deductions for charitable gifts, which was included in the budget the president presented to Congress. 
 Among donors, the concern was one of being forced to limit donations when charities need the support the most. 
 Charity trade associations echoed the unease. Nonprofit groups have been urging the administration and Congress to increase incentives for charitable giving by raising the limits on deductions and eliminating taxes on the investment income of foundations.
 ''In these hard economic times, we need to make sure tax and regulatory policy encourages growth in philanthropy,'' said Steve Gunderson, chief executive of the Council on Foundations.
 Under the administration's proposal, taxpayers earning more than $250,000 will have their ability to deduct contributions to charities reduced to a rate of 28 percent from a rate of 35 percent, according to an analysis by the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations. 
 That organization called on Mr. Obama to ''immediately remove'' the proposal limiting charitable deductions while commending him for a ''bold and honest budget plan.''
 Fund-raising experts had a more subdued reaction. 
 ''Research has shown again and again that for major donors, taxes are at the bottom of their list of reasons why they make these gifts,'' said Margaret Holman, a fund-raising adviser in New York. ''They make these gifts because they love, are intrigued by, want to invest in their favorite charities.''
 Roughly half of the high net-worth donors responding to a 2006 survey by the Bank of America reported that they would keep giving the same amount to charity if deductions for that giving fell to zero, while about 38 percent said their giving would decrease somewhat. Only 7 percent said their gifts would fall steeply. 
 Eli Broad, who has made some of the biggest gifts in recent years, said through a spokeswoman that his giving would not be affected, as he has already donated far more than he can deduct. 
 Robert J. Sharpe, a fund-raising expert in Memphis, said many of the wealthiest donors are already limited to deductions of 28 percent for their charitable gifts because they are subject to the alternative minimum tax.
 Congress has long debated whether donors should get the same subsidy for gifts to wealthy universities and art groups that they get for contributions to nonprofit groups serving basic needs like food, shelter and health care.
 ''The administration's proposal is doing just that, reordering charitable priorities by taking money wealthy people would have given to other charities and making it go into the health care system'' through higher taxes, Mr. Sharpe said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 2, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about reaction to a proposal by the Obama administration that would limit the value of deductions for charitable gifts misstated the name of a fund-raising expert in Memphis. He is Robert F. Sharpe Jr., not Robert J. Sharpe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (93%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (79%); HEALTH CARE (78%); CHARITIES LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); ELI BROAD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1117 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DRILLING DOWN ON THE BUDGET; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Setting 'Green' Goals

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama budget promises what it calls a comprehensive effort to address global warming, slash oil imports and create a new ''green'' economy that produces millions of new jobs. 
 The White House estimates that the plan, built around a cap-and-trade program to limit greenhouse gas emissions, will produce $150 billion over 10 years beginning in 2012 to finance renewable energy projects and another $65 billion a year to pay for middle-class tax credits. Any further revenue from the sale of emissions permits will be returned to families, communities and businesses that suffer hardship as the result of higher energy prices, the budget blueprint states.
 Under the plan, 100 percent of pollution permits will be auctioned, meaning no sector of the economy will be exempted from paying for the right to emit carbon dioxide and other gases that contribute to global warming. This is consistent with Mr. Obama's campaign pledge, and it is a matter of fierce debate.
 The budget establishes relatively aggressive emissions reductions targets of 14 percent from 2005 levels by 2020 and 83 percent by 2050.
 The budget projects a large increase in spending at the Department of Energy in the current fiscal year, to $33.9 billion from $24.1 billion last year, because it includes some money from the $787 billion stimulus package just approved for research, weatherization programs and modernization of the electric grid. Energy Department spending drops to $26.3 billion for the fiscal year 2010, beginning in October, although the stimulus package provides an additional $38.7 billion for energy programs that will be spent over the next several years.
 The Department of Interior budget grows slowly, with new money for park maintenance, endangered species protection and renewable energy projects.
 At the Environmental Protection Agency, the budget projects a 34 percent spending increase for 2010, with much of the money devoted to clean water projects, a Great Lakes restoration program and across-the-board increases for regulation, research and enforcement. The agency also gets $19 million to establish an inventory of greenhouse gas emitters as a prelude to a national carbon control regime.
 John M. Broder

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT LAKES (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1118 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DRILLING DOWN THE BUDGET; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Obama Offers Broad Plan to Revamp Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's budget would make a down payment toward his goal of covering the uninsured, and he would pay for it in part by cutting federal payments to hospitals, insurance companies and drug companies.
 He would also increase premiums charged to Medicare beneficiaries with higher incomes for prescription drug coverage.
 Mr. Obama requested more than $6 billion for cancer research at the National Institutes of Health, up from $5.6 billion last year, and he announced a ''multiyear plan to double cancer research.'' 
 In addition, Mr. Obama said he would speed the approval of low-cost generic versions of expensive biotechnology drugs by establishing ''a new regulatory pathway'' at the Food and Drug Administration.
 And he said he would increase access to family planning services for low-income women by expanding eligibility under Medicaid. A similar proposal was dropped from the recent economic stimulus bill after it provoked an outcry from Republicans.
 Mr. Obama asked Congress to set aside $634 billion in a ''reserve fund for health care reform.''
 He provided no new information about how to cover the uninsured, saying he would work out the details with Congress later this year. But he did propose specific changes to save money, and many of his ideas face opposition from Washington lobbyists and the interests they represent.
 Mr. Obama would, for example, require drug companies to give bigger discounts, or rebates, to Medicaid, the health program for low-income people.
 Drug makers now must provide Medicaid with a discount equal to at least 15.1 percent of the average manufacturer price for a brand-name product. Mr. Obama wants to require discounts of at least 22.1 percent. Pharmaceutical companies have resisted such proposals in the past.
 Mr. Obama said he would save $176 billion over 10 years by cutting Medicare payments to health insurance companies that provide comprehensive care to more than 10 million of the 44 million Medicare beneficiaries. 
 Medicare pays private insurers an average of 14 percent more than it would cost to care for the same people in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. ''It's time to stop this waste,'' the White House said.
 Karen M. Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group, denounced the proposal. It would, she said, require people in private Medicare Advantage plans to bear ''a disproportionate share of the costs to reform the health care system.''
 The president also proposed cutting Medicare payments to hospitals that re-admit a large proportion of patients within 30 days after they are discharged. Such re-admissions sometimes indicate that hospitals provided poor care or did not properly coordinate care. 
 Under the proposal, hospitals would receive ''bundled payments'' that cover not only their own services, but also any care provided by nursing homes and home health agencies in the month after patients left the hospital.
 The White House said this proposal would save $26 billion over 10 years.
 Mr. Obama also proposed squeezing $37 billion out of the payments to home health agencies over the next decade.
 William A. Dombi, vice president of the National Association for Home Care and Hospice, a trade group, said this proposal would directly affect frail, sick older people.
 ''Patients would lose access to care very quickly,'' Mr. Dombi said. ''Over 70 percent of all home health agencies would be operating in the red.'' President George W. Bush made a similar proposal last year, but it died in Congress.
 Doctors praised one aspect of Mr. Obama's budget. He assumes that Congress will protect doctors from cuts in Medicare payments scheduled to occur under current law -- cuts of 21 percent in 2010 and about 5 percent in each of the next few years.
 ''We are very pleased,'' said Dr. Nancy H. Nielsen, president of the American Medical Association. ''All previous budgets assumed cuts in doctor payments.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); CANCER (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); ONCOLOGY (76%); APPROVALS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (67%); MEDICAID (58%); FAMILY PLANNING (55%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1119 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DRILLING DOWN ON THE BUDGET; Pg. 

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: An Additional $250 Billion Sought for Ailing Banks

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The president's budget seeks an additional $250 billion to help rescue financial institutions. The Obama administration was widely expected to seek more money for bank bailouts, and the new budget offers the first estimate of how much more the president thinks will be needed to save the financial industry. 
 Last year, Congress gave the administration broad flexibility to rescue financial institutions under the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program and about half of that has already been spent. Earlier this month, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, began to outline plans for spending much of the rest. 
 . The budget unveiled on Thursday for the fiscal year, which begins in October, suggested the additional $250 billion could be used to purchase troubled assets now weighing down the books of the banks. 
 The budget said that the money could be leveraged to support $750 billion in asset purchases. But it also noted that the new request ''does not represent a specific request'' and would be a reserve fund that could be used in various ways to help ailing financial institutions.
 ''As events warrant, the administration will work with the Congress to determine the appropriate size and shape of such efforts, and as more information becomes available the administration will define an estimate of potential costs,'' the budget said. 
 The budget release noted that estimates of the value of the financial assets already acquired by the government suggest that the Treasury ''will get back approximately two-thirds of the money spent purchasing such assets -- so the net cost to the government is roughly 33 cents on the dollar.''
 The budget significantly increases law enforcement resources for agencies that supervise Wall Street. It calls for a 13 percent increase in the budget of the Securities and Exchange Commission and a 44 percent increase for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. 
 The S.E.C. is expected to use the additional money to ''build its staff and technology resources'' and to promote a new program to ''better detect fraud and strengthen markets.'' The commodity futures commission will increase its oversight of energy and over-the-counter derivatives trading.
 The budget calls for financing increases for more agents to be hired by the Federal Bureau of Investigation to look into mortgage fraud and white-collar crime as well as for additional prosecutors and bankruptcy experts at the Justice Department to deal with growing problems arising from the financial crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK FAILURES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); FUTURES (67%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); COMMODITIES TRADING (62%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (61%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1120 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DRILLING DOWN ON THE BUDGET; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Agriculture

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
President Obama's budget calls for an end to direct payments to ''large agribusinesses that don't need them'' but the proposal is likely to meetfierce opposition from farm-state lawmakers, particularly from the South. 
 The president is recommending that direct payments to farmers -- those not contingent on crop prices -- be phased out for those with sales revenue of more than $500,000 a year, a proposal that would save $9.8 billion over a decade. More than 116,000 farms, out of 2.2 million total, had at least that level of sales in 2007. The president would also cap payments at $250,000 a year.
 The president's budget also calls for an end to government payment for storage of cotton under loan to the Department of Agriculture and a reduction in spending on overseas market promotion programs, particularly those that promote specific brands.
 The Department of Agriculture is expected to spend $8.8 billion on farm subsidies in 2009, of which about $5 billion are so-called direct payments. For years, some Midwest lawmakers and even President George W. Bush tried to curb the largest payments but have succeeded at only modest reforms.
 In 2006, for instance, the top 1 percent of farmers received 20 percent of all payments, according to the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit advocacy group that maintains a database of farm subsidies. Among the largest recipients are rice and cotton farmers. Lawmakers from the South, Texas and California have historically fought hard against payment limits.
 Already, farm organizations and farm-state lawmakers are balking. ''We just passed a fiscally responsible farm bill that made cuts to farm programs,'' Representative Collin C. Peterson, a Minnesotsa Democrat who is chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, said in a statement. ''So now is not the time to reopen it.''
 Bob Stallman, president of the American Farm Bureau Federation, said the cuts could do more harm than good by curtailing ''much-needed economic activity without yielding deficit reduction of any significant degree.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (77%); COTTON FARMING (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RICE FARMING (72%); COMPANY REVENUES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); COLLIN PETERSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1121 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: In Its 2nd Request for Funds, G.M. Reduces Fuel Economy Estimate

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The request from General Motors last week for billions of dollars in additional federal aid included a curious revision from an earlier application. 
 G.M. changed the way it calculated projections for the average fuel economy of its fleet in 2012 in a way that made the mileage numbers worse than if the company had been consistent in its methodology. 
 In its filing to the Treasury Department last week, when it asked for $12 billion more in assistance, G.M. said its cars would average 33.7 miles per gallon in 2012. That is a decline of 3.6 miles from its first filing, in early December. 
 Its estimate for the fuel economy of its light trucks also went down. G.M. said it would average 23.8 m.p.g. in the Feb. 17 filing for its trucks, S.U.V.'s and minivans, compared with an estimate of 27.5 in December.
 Given that G.M. is trying to impress the Obama administration with its turnaround plan, it would seem an odd move, since the president has often repeated his goal of improving the fuel economy of cars on American roads.
 G.M. said the reasons were twofold. It changed the way it calculated the numbers, and it also wanted to account for a possible tilt toward sales of bigger vehicles if gas prices remained at current levels in coming years.
 But critics contend the change may be a signal from G.M. that it may not be able to meet new federal fuel efficiency standards, or those that would be imposed by California if the Environmental Protection Agency grants the state's petition to impose its own mileage rules.
 Congress passed a law in December 2007 requiring automakers to achieve an average of 35 m.p.g. across all their vehicles by 2020. While in the Senate, Mr. Obama sponsored legislation requiring the automakers to achieve the equivalent of 40 m.p.g.
 Environmentalists said they were not happy with any sign that G.M. might be backtracking. 
 ''In December they issued a response to the Congress with their first salvation plan and G.M. was very specific, saying they were on track for 37.3 m.p.g. for cars and 27.5 for light trucks by 2012,'' said Daniel Becker of the Safe Climate Campaign run by the Center for Auto Safety, and a longtime critic of the auto industry. ''Last week they were 3-plus m.p.g. less than that for the same period. Which is true?''
 Greg Martin, a spokesman for G.M., said the company had based estimates in its first plan on expectations for its cars and trucks during the 2012 calendar year. But in last week's plan, it used expectations for the 2013 model year, which begins in October 2012 and continues through September 2013.
 If G.M. had used the model year numbers in its original plan, the overall difference would have also pointed to a drop in fuel economy, but only a decline of 0.5 m.p.g. 
 Mr. Martin said G.M. was striving to achieve better fuel economy across all its vehicles. He also said that interest in small cars fell last fall after gasoline prices declined, another reason that its forecast for fuel economy was not as optimistic. 
 ''It's amazing, with fuel economy, what $4 a gallon can mean,'' Mr. Martin said.
 He said the decline did not have anything to do with G.M.'s decision to discontinue its Saturn brand by 2011, or to sell Saab, the Swedish carmaker, whose lineups are dominated by cars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PETITIONS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1122 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Climate Of Change

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Elections have consequences. President Obama's new budget represents a huge break, not just with the policies of the past eight years, but with policy trends over the past 30 years. If he can get anything like the plan he announced on Thursday through Congress, he will set America on a fundamentally new course.
 The budget will, among other things, come as a huge relief to Democrats who were starting to feel a bit of postpartisan depression. The stimulus bill that Congress passed may have been too weak and too focused on tax cuts. The administration's refusal to get tough on the banks may be deeply disappointing. But fears that Mr. Obama would sacrifice progressive priorities in his budget plans, and satisfy himself with fiddling around the edges of the tax system, have now been banished. 
 For this budget allocates $634 billion over the next decade for health reform. That's not enough to pay for universal coverage, but it's an impressive start. And Mr. Obama plans to pay for health reform, not just with higher taxes on the affluent, but by putting a halt to the creeping privatization of Medicare, eliminating overpayments to insurance companies.
 On another front, it's also heartening to see that the budget projects $645 billion in revenues from the sale of emission allowances. After years of denial and delay by its predecessor, the Obama administration is signaling that it's ready to take on climate change. 
 And these new priorities are laid out in a document whose clarity and plausibility seem almost incredible to those of us who grew accustomed to reading Bush-era budgets, which insulted our intelligence on every page. This is budgeting we can believe in.
 Many will ask whether Mr. Obama can actually pull off the deficit reduction he promises. Can he actually reduce the red ink from $1.75 trillion this year to less than a third as much in 2013? Yes, he can.
 Right now the deficit is huge thanks to temporary factors (at least we hope they're temporary): a severe economic slump is depressing revenues and large sums have to be allocated both to fiscal stimulus and to financial rescues. 
 But if and when the crisis passes, the budget picture should improve dramatically. Bear in mind that from 2005 to 2007, that is, in the three years before the crisis, the federal deficit averaged only $243 billion a year. Now, during those years, revenues were inflated, to some degree, by the housing bubble. But it's also true that we were spending more than $100 billion a year in Iraq. 
 So if Mr. Obama gets us out of Iraq (without bogging us down in an equally expensive Afghan quagmire) and manages to engineer a solid economic recovery -- two big ifs, to be sure -- getting the deficit down to around $500 billion by 2013 shouldn't be at all difficult.
 But won't the deficit be swollen by interest on the debt run-up over the next few years? Not as much as you might think. Interest rates on long-term government debt are less than 4 percent, so even a trillion dollars of additional debt adds less than $40 billion a year to future deficits. And those interest costs are fully reflected in the budget documents.
 So we have good priorities and plausible projections. What's not to like about this budget? Basically, the long run outlook remains worrying.
 According to the Obama administration's budget projections, the ratio of federal debt to G.D.P., a widely used measure of the government's financial position, will soar over the next few years, then more or less stabilize. But this stability will be achieved at a debt-to-G.D.P. ratio of around 60 percent. That wouldn't be an extremely high debt level by international standards, but it would be the deepest in debt America has been since the years immediately following World War II. And it would leave us with considerably reduced room for maneuver if another crisis comes along.
 Furthermore, the Obama budget only tells us about the next 10 years. That's an improvement on Bush-era budgets, which looked only 5 years ahead. But America's really big fiscal problems lurk over that budget horizon: sooner or later we're going to have to come to grips with the forces driving up long-run spending -- above all, the ever-rising cost of health care.
 And even if fundamental health care reform brings costs under control, I at least find it hard to see how the federal government can meet its long-term obligations without some tax increases on the middle class. Whatever politicians may say now, there's probably a value-added tax in our future.
 But I don't blame Mr. Obama for leaving some big questions unanswered in this budget. There's only so much long-run thinking the political system can handle in the midst of a severe crisis; he has probably taken on all he can, for now. And this budget looks very, very good. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (71%); MEDICARE (66%); HOUSING MARKET (60%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1123 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Family Planning Services

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''For Uninsured Young Adults, Do-It-Yourself Medical Care'' (front page, Feb. 18): 
 While Gov. David A. Paterson's proposal will provide relief for some young uninsured New Yorkers, our worsening economic situation and the growing numbers of unemployed mean that there are more and more underinsured and uninsured New Yorkers seeking services -- and not all of them are young.
 As one of New York City's main safety net providers, we serve this population daily. We know firsthand the importance of New York State's investment in health care services, especially when it comes to family planning. For every dollar spent on family planning services, four are saved in Medicaid spending. 
 Let's continue to safeguard family planning financing, and ensure that women, men and teenagers have access to basic health care at a time when they need it more than ever.
 Joan Malin President and Chief Executive Planned Parenthood of New York City New York, Feb. 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY PLANNING (92%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICAID (88%); HEALTH CARE (88%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (88%); ADOLESCENTS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD OF NEW YORK CITY (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1124 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Big Changes On the Way In Lending To Students

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
The Obama administration outlined a vast overhaul of financial aid programs for college students, one that would end years of federal support to banks and other lenders, in its budget proposal unveiled on Thursday.
 The proposal would increase grants to the neediest students and allow those grants to rise slightly above the inflation rate, an effort to keep pace with tuition increases. 
 The size of existing federal loan programs would grow, and more families would be eligible to participate. And in perhaps the most controversial provision, the administration would lend directly to students and end its support of federally guaranteed student loans made by banks and other private companies. 
 ''Rather than continuing to subsidize banks,'' said the education secretary, Arne Duncan, ''we want to help more students.''
 Opposition to some of these proposals will be fierce, especially from lenders that for years have received a government subsidy on student loans. The potential impact drove down the stock of the biggest student loan company, Sallie Mae, by nearly 31 percent; it closed at $5.80 on Thursday.
 ''It's the biggest proposed change in federal student aid programs since the Higher Education Act was created in 1965,'' said Terry Hartle, senior vice president at the American Council on Education, whose members are colleges and universities. ''It is big, bold, comprehensive and controversial.''
 Lenders were quick to denounce the effort and to question the ability of the Education Department to handle more than $60 billion a year in federal loans to students and families. Last year, according to the College Board, the department made only $13 billion in loans directly to students.
 ''Direct loans are simply not subject to the same quality of service,'' especially when it comes to helping borrowers avoid default, Marcia Sullivan, director of government relations at the Consumer Bankers Association, a banking trade group, said in a statement.
 But in a conference call with reporters, Mr. Duncan said eliminating federal loans through banks would save $4 billion a year. (Congress also sets the maximum interest rate that lenders can charge students on the loans.)
 Eliminating the subsidies, Mr. Duncan said, will save money that can be used to help pay for the expanded aid in the form of grants to students.
 The guaranteed student loan program through banks ''is on life support,'' Mr. Duncan said. In part because of the credit crisis, lenders are now relying on federal programs or the Education Department to buy the student loans and finance more lending. 
 The proposed changes would not take effect until 2010, giving the Education Department time to prepare for a much bigger program of lending directly to students. Officials at the department also emphasized that it would hire private companies to service the loans, and that it had already put out a request for bids.
 The political battle over the guaranteed loan program involves a philosophical debate over how involved private lenders should be in a program to make college affordable. Banks and other lenders, though, are in a weaker position politically because of the financial crisis. 
 George Miller, the California Democrat who is chairman of the House education committee, hailed President Obama's proposal as a ''solid plan to make federal student loans more reliable.'' 
 Republicans sounded a different note. Howard P. McKeon, of California, known as Buck, and the ranking minority member of Mr. Miller's committee, said in a statement that ending the guaranteed loan program was a ''government takeover of the private sector-based student loan program, taking away options and benefits from students while adding tens of billions to the government's balance sheet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); INFLATION (57%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: SLM CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (55%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1125 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Iraq Withdrawal Plan Gains G.O.P. Support, Including McCain's

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama won crucial backing on Thursday for his Iraq military withdrawal plan from leading Congressional Republicans, including Senator John McCain, the party's presidential nominee, who spent much of last year debating the war with Mr. Obama.
 As the president prepared to fly to Camp Lejeune, N.C., on Friday to announce that he would pull combat forces out by August 2010 while leaving behind a residual force of 35,000 to 50,000 troops, he reassured Congressional leaders from both parties that his plan would not jeopardize hard-won stability in Iraq.
 But Republicans emerged from a meeting Thursday evening more supportive than several leading Democrats, who complained earlier in the day that the president was still leaving behind too many American forces. 
 Mr. McCain said during the private White House meeting that he thought the withdrawal plan was thoughtful and well prepared, according to several people who were in the room. His spokeswoman, Brooke Buchanan, confirmed by e-mail on Thursday night that Mr. McCain is ''supportive of the plan.''
 The convergence of Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain on Iraq would have seemed highly improbable just a few months ago, when they clashed harshly on the future of the American mission there. Mr. McCain accused Mr. Obama of being naive and opposed his withdrawal plans. At one point, Mr. McCain said Mr. Obama ''would rather lose a war than lose a campaign.''
 Even since the inauguration, Mr. McCain, who represents Arizona, has remained a tough opponent of Mr. Obama, at least on economic matters. But the two have come to a common ground of sorts on Iraq, the issue that once defined their rivalry.
 Mr. McCain's views were echoed by other Republicans briefed in the State Dining Room by Mr. Obama, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Obama team told two dozen lawmakers from both parties that at least 90,000 of the 142,000 troops in Iraq would be withdrawn by August 2010 -- 19 months after the president's inauguration, or three months longer than the time frame he had outlined as a candidate.
 Most withdrawals will take place next year to allow commanders to keep as many forces as possible through parliamentary elections in December. Mr. Gates and Admiral Mullen told the lawmakers that Gen. David H. Petraeus, the Middle East commander, and Gen. Ray Odierno, the Iraq commander, were comfortable with the plan, according to people in the room.
 Representative John M. McHugh of New York, the ranking Republican on the House Armed Services Committee, said Mr. Obama had reassured him that he would revisit his plan if circumstances changed. 
 ''The president's objective to withdraw U.S. combat forces from Iraq is one that we should pray for, plan for and work toward,'' Mr. McHugh said. ''However, I remain concerned that the security situation in Iraq is fragile, and we should work to mitigate any risks to our troops and their mission.''
 Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, and other senior Republicans were likewise generally supportive, while advocating flexibility to preserve the security gains since President Bush sent more troops two years ago, according to Congressional aides.
 But even before the session, Democrats criticized the size of the residual force, even though Mr. Obama said consistently during the campaign that he would leave troops behind to continue training Iraqi soldiers, hunting terrorists and protecting Americans in Iraq.
 ''I'm happy to listen to the secretary of defense and the president, but when they talk about 50,000, that's a little higher number than I anticipated,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, told reporters before heading to the White House. His spokesman said after the meeting that Mr. Reid still held those concerns.
 Another person briefed on the session said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House speaker, was particularly upset. She kicked off the public criticism on Wednesday by saying she did not understand ''the justification'' for 50,000 troops. 
 Senators Patty Murray of Washington State and Charles E. Schumer of New York echoed those sentiments on Thursday. ''Fifty thousand is more than I would have thought,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''We await the justification for why that would be.''
 But Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who accompanied Mr. Obama to Iraq last summer, said a remaining force of 50,000 was appropriate. ''It seems logical to me you would need a force of around that level,'' he said in an interview. ''The critical issue here is the missions that these troops are going to perform.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Soldiers at Fort Carson, Colo., unloaded luggage this month for troops who had recently returned from a 15-month tour in Iraq.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK WILKING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN M MCHUGH (79%); ROBERT M GATES (59%); RAY ODIERNO (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1126 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Angry At Possibility Of Losing Out On Benefits

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Robbie Brown contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As governors in nine states, mostly in the South, consider rejecting millions of dollars in federal stimulus money for increased unemployment insurance, there is growing anger among the ranks of the jobless in those states that they could be left out of a significant government benefit.
 The stimulus bill recently passed by Congress includes incentives to states to expand benefits to many more jobless people, including part-time workers and those who have cycled in and out of the work force, who are not covered in many states. 
 The Republican governors of Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina and Texas, along with Alaska and Idaho, have raised protests, saying that expansion could eventually require them to raise taxes. 
 On Wednesday, Gov. Phil Bredesen of Tennessee became the first Democratic governor to express reservations on the issue. 
 For people like Henry Kight, 59, of Austin, Tex., the possibility that the money might be turned down is a deeply personal issue.
 Mr. Kight, who worked for more than three decades as an engineering technician, discovered in September that because of complex state rules, he was not eligible for unemployment insurance after losing a job at a major electronics manufacturer he had landed at the beginning of the year. 
 Unable to draw jobless benefits, he and his wife have taken on thousands of dollars in credit-card debt to help make ends meet.
 It is precisely these kind of regulations, involving such matters as the length of a person's work history or reason for leaving a job, that the federal government is trying to get the states to change. Such a move could extend benefits to an estimated half-million more people, according to the National Employment Law Project, a liberal group in New York that supports the changes. 
 Mr. Kight and other unemployed workers said they were incensed to learn they were living in one of a handful of states -- many of them among the poorest in the nation -- that might not provide the expanded benefits.
 ''It just seems unreasonable,'' Mr. Kight said, ''that when people probably need the help the most, that because of partisan activity, or partisan feelings, against the current new administration, that Perry is willing to sacrifice the lives of so many Texans that have been out of work in the last year.''
 He was referring to Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who has said he may decline the extra money rather than change state policy.
 ''I remain opposed to using these funds to expand existing government programs, burdening the state with ongoing expenditures long after the funding has dried up,'' Mr. Perry wrote in a letter to Mr. Obama last week. 
 The governors contend that once the federal money ran out, they would have to continue providing the new benefits, which they say would force them to raise taxes on businesses. The federal money will end in two or three years in some states, or much later in others, depending on the size of the state allocation. 
 Proponents say that nothing would prevent states from changing the laws back at that time.
 The anger at the governors' positions goes beyond just the unemployed workers who could directly benefit from the changes. Because eligibility rules for unemployment insurance are complicated and vary by state, many unemployed people do not even know whether they would be affected. 
 There is also confusion over what parts of the stimulus money are in danger. The governors have mostly said they do not object to the stimulus bill's $25 per week increase in unemployment benefits, or a new federal extension of benefits. 
 As a result, many laid-off workers across the South have been fretting over precisely what they might lose out on, even as they express astonishment that they might not receive the help that jobless people in other states will get.
 ''I don't understand the whole thing,'' said Kelley Joyce, 43, of Myrtle Beach, S.C., about indications from Gov. Mark Sanford that he may reject some of the stimulus financing in that state. ''Apparently because he has money and he doesn't have to worry about everybody else who doesn't have money.''
 South Carolina, which has the nation's third-highest unemployment rate at 9.5 percent, ruled Ms. Joyce was ineligible for benefits for the same reason as Mr. Kight after she lost her job as a marketing assistant in November.
 The first third of the $7 billion available to states to expand unemployment benefits is contingent on the states' changing eligibility rules in such a way that Mr. Kight and Ms. Joyce would receive benefits. It requires states to consider an ''alternative base period'' when determining someone's eligibility. 
 Currently, when considering a person's work history, most states do not include his wages in the current or preceding quarter. Instead, they look to see what the person earned in the four quarters before that, which can often hurt low-wage workers, women and others just entering or returning to the work force.
 In Mr. Kight's case, he was unemployed for the second half of 2007, after losing an earlier job he had at a different electronics manufacturer in a downsizing. As a result, when he applied for unemployment benefits, he did not have enough immediate work history to qualify.
 ''I have worked for so many years, a total of probably 30 years, contributing to the support system that helps people when they get in a tough spot like I'm in,'' Mr. Kight said. ''I haven't needed it too much in the past, but I sure could use it right now.''
 About 40 percent of applicants who are now disqualified from receiving benefits because they do not earn enough would qualify if states offered an alternative base period, according to the National Employment Law Project. 
 To be eligible for the other two-thirds of the money set aside for unemployment benefits, states would have to provide benefits to at least two of these four groups of unemployed people: those only available to work part-time; workers who left their jobs for a compelling family reason, like a spouse moving to take another job, to take care of a sick child, or in cases of domestic violence; workers with dependent children seeking additional benefits; and workers who need additional benefits to last them through re-training.
 On Tuesday, Erica Greer, 32, and her mother, Candace Foss, 59, who lost her job as a data management specialist at Home Depot in late January, went to the State Capitol in downtown Atlanta from Kennesaw, Ga., a suburb where they live, to deliver a message to Gov. Sonny Perdue not to reject any of the stimulus money.
 Mr. Perdue has said he fears the long-term consequences of accepting the money.
 Ms. Foss got a severance package from Home Depot, so she has not yet applied for unemployment benefits. It appears she would be eligible for benefits, but she and her daughter said they wanted to stand up for unemployed Georgians and fight for their benefits. They wound up speaking to an aide to the governor for about 10 minutes and submitted a letter to Mr. Perdue.
 ''I don't think he truly understands the plight of his citizens,'' Ms. Foss said. ''He's surrounded by people with good jobs, who make good salaries. He's not surrounded by people like me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has said he may decline some federal stimulus money rather than change state policy on benefits.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY CABLUCK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia has said he fears the long-term consequences of accepting the federal stimulus money.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN AMIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
On Wednesday, Gov. Phil Bredesen of Tennessee became the first Democratic governor to express reservations on the issue.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK HUMPHREY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Candace Foss, who lost her job, and her daughter Erica Greer went to the Capitol in Atlanta to stand up for other Georgians.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); ELECTRONICS (66%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (51%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%); PHIL BREDESEN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); SONNY PERDUE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1127 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.B.A. ROUNDUP; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Rockets Keep Cavs' Offense Off Balance

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Houston Rockets held LeBron James without an assist for the first time in his career and limited Cleveland to its lowest point total of the season, beating the visiting Cavaliers on Thursday night, 93-74. 
 Yao Ming scored 28 points and Ron Artest added 15 while harassing James on defense. James scored 21 points, but went 7 for 21 from the field. The Cavaliers had season-low point totals in the first (11) and third (10) quarters.
 Cavaliers forward Ben Wallace broke his right leg in the second quarter and will miss four to six weeks, the team said.
 LEAGUE LINES UP $200 MILLION The N.B.A. has lined up $200 million, through JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, to distribute to teams that need money.
 Between $13 million and $20 million will be available to each of 12 teams, Commissioner David Stern said Thursday. The money can be used for any purpose, including helping teams deal with operating losses incurred because of the slumping economy.
 Stern said the money was not a bailout. ''It's exactly the opposite,'' he said. ''This was a show of strength in the credit worthiness of the N.B.A.'s teams.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); BONE FRACTURES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ROCKETS (94%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (93%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1128 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: China Says U.S. Distorts Facts in Report on Rights

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Chinese authorities reacted caustically on Thursday to an annual State Department report on global human rights that called China's respect for rights not only ''poor,'' but also worsening in its persecution of ethnic minorities and dissidents. 
 The state news agency Xinhua called the report's section on China groundless and irresponsible, saying it ''willfully ignored and distorted basic facts'' about human rights conditions and the nation's ethnic, legal and religious systems. ''The report turned a blind eye to the efforts and historic achievements China has made in human rights that have been widely recognized by the international community,'' the Xinhua statement said. It called the annual report an American pretext for interfering in the domestic affairs of other nations. 
 The State Department document was issued just days after Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, in her first official visit to China, said publicly that American concern over China's human rights practices would not impede cooperation on strategic issues like the economic crisis and global warming. Human rights groups and some others expressed dismay at her remarks, which they said undercut the United States' ability to influence China's human rights policies and its treatment of dissidents and other persecuted individuals.
 At the release of the report on Wednesday, Karen B. Stewart, the State Department's senior human rights official, said that the document's pointed criticism of China's record neither ran counter to Mrs. Clinton's remarks nor was likely to damage cooperation between the nations. 
 As for China's reaction, she said, ''I think we'll have a full dialogue with the Chinese on all areas'' of policy. 
 While sharp, China's reaction did not significantly differ from its reaction to the human rights assessment delivered by the Bush administration a year ago. Xinhua's five-paragraph statement largely repeated, sometimes word for word, its 2008 response. 
 The government -- in keeping with its practice since 2000 -- also followed with its own sharply critical analysis of the United States' human rights record, which was published by Xinhua. The report criticized the United States for a host of ills that it said impeded human rights, including ''widespread violent crimes'' and the wealth gap in the United States, as well as arms sales overseas and the ''trampling'' of the sovereignty of countries including Iraq. 
 The State Department document mentioned China, Russia, Zimbabwe, Egypt and a handful of other nations in its introduction as states where human rights conditions had deteriorated during 2008. It said Russia had ''continued a negative trajectory'' in domestic rights matters and accused Zimbabwe of a campaign of terror against the government's political opponents that has led to the torture, disappearance or death of hundreds. 
 The 44-page section on China particularly criticized the government's treatment of its Tibetan and Uighur minorities, and what it termed ''increased detention and harassment of dissidents and petitioners.'' 
 But the section also offered scattered instances of approval. The number of nongovernmental organizations in China rose by more than 9 percent in 2007, the last year for which records are available, despite harsh restrictions on the groups, the State Department said. China also ''experimented with various forms of public oversight of government,'' from telephone hot lines to public hearings on proposed legislation, in an effort to give citizens some say in policies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TORTURE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%); VIOLENT CRIME (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1129 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DRILLING DOWN ON THE BUDGET; Pg. 

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Foreign

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's budget of $51.7 billion for the State Department and foreign assistance is purposely vague, experts say, as the administration works to figure out its overseas spending priorities during an economic crisis at home. 
 The proposal represents a nearly 10 percent increase over the 2009 budget of $47.2 billion -- an amount the White House says puts the United States ''on a path to double foreign assistance,'' although the budget does not specify a time period.
 As he tries to repair frayed relations around the world, the president has vowed to put more emphasis on diplomacy. The budget, for instance, includes a pledge to increase nonmilitary assistance to Pakistan and Afghanistan ''to revitalize economic development and confront the resurgence of the Taliban.''
 But the administration may be rethinking other foreign priorities like global health -- in particular the signature program of Mr. Obama's predecessor, former President George W. Bush, to increase financing to fight the global AIDS epidemic, said Stephen Morrison, director of the Global Health Policy Center at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
 Mr. Morrison expects that ''on ethical and moral grounds,'' the Obama White House will continue to provide anti-retroviral medications for those already on them at American expense. But he said Mr. Obama might shift financing to other infectious diseases, like malaria and tuberculosis, or to other health priorities like clean water or family planning. 
 He said, promoting foreign assistance could prove a tough sell when Americans are suffering at home. ''There's going to have to be a strong case made,'' Mr. Morrison said, ''that these investments have concrete, verifiable impacts on people's lives.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); AIDS & HIV (73%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (71%); TALIBAN (69%); MALARIA (67%); TUBERCULOSIS (67%); ETHICS (67%); EPIDEMICS (67%); ANTIVIRALS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1130 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Rocky Mountain News Fails To Find Buyer and Will Close

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The Rocky Mountain News, the oldest newspaper in Colorado, will publish its final edition on Friday, the E. W. Scripps Company said, adding Denver to the long list of American cities with just one daily paper. 
 Scripps said The Rocky, as it is known, lost $16 million in 2008, and no buyer had emerged in the almost three months since the company publicly acknowledged that it wanted to sell the paper. The close comes as a blow to employees and readers, but not a surprise. Scripps executives have said that if they could not find a buyer, they might close the tabloid.
 Rich Boehne, chief executive of Scripps, traveled to Denver to break the news to the staff in the paper's newsroom. According to The Rocky's own account of that gathering, some of the employees cried. The workers were told that they would remain on the Scripps payroll through April 28.
 Mr. Boehne said that just one potential buyer expressed interest in the paper, before realizing that the economic challenges it faced were overwhelming.
 Newspapers around the country are suffering from falling advertising, tight credit and declining circulation, but papers are in particular trouble in the few metropolitan areas that still have more than one daily. One of Seattle's papers, The Post-Intelligencer, might close soon; the two Detroit papers have decided to stop home delivery some days of the week; and the owner of the two Philadelphia papers recently filed for bankruptcy, as did one of the two papers in the Twin Cities.
 Since 2001, The Rocky, which has weekday circulation of 210,000, has had a joint operating agreement with its rival, The Denver Post, owned by MediaNews Group. They have shared business expenses like printing and delivery, while competing in journalism.
 Scripps said it was negotiating with MediaNews to unwind the partnership. The Post stands to gain some of The Rocky's readers and advertisers, but without a publishing partner, the surviving paper could also face higher operating costs.
 Greg Moore, the editor of The Post, sent a memo to his staff Thursday naming 11 journalists he was hiring from The Rocky, including six columnists.
 Founded in 1859 -- it would have celebrated its 150th birthday in April -- The Rocky claims to be not just the oldest newspaper in the state, but the oldest continuously operating business. The journalistic reputation of the paper, which Scripps has owned since 1926, has risen in recent years. It won four Pulitzer Prizes in this decade, including three for photography, and it was a finalist for two others. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Employees of The Rocky Mountain News were told Thursday that Friday's issue would be the 150-year-old newspaper's last.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELLEN JASKOL/ROCKY MOUNTAIN NEWS, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%)

COMPANY: E W SCRIPPS CO (93%); DENVER POST CORP (90%)

TICKER: SSP (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%)

PERSON: RICHARD A BOEHNE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1131 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Education; DRILLING DOWN ON THE BUDGET; Pg. 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Student Loans

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's budget proposal on education would for the first time index student-aid Pell Grant to inflation, guaranteeing low-income college students a stable grant amount, and pay for that expensive shift by eliminating $4 billion in annual subsidies to private banks who make student loans. 
 ''The president has proposed the biggest change in the federal programs that help students finance a college education since the main higher education law was written in 1965,'' said Terry Hartle, a vice president at the American Council on Education, which represents hundreds of colleges and universities.
 Under the current system, college students in families with incomes low enough to qualify receive a Pell Grant, but the amount of the grant depends on how much Congress votes for the program, and in recent years that amount has not kept pace with inflation. The administration now proposes to guarantee not only that students will receive grants, but also that it will keep pace with inflation.
 The current maximum grant is about $4,730, but beginning on July 1 that will rise to $5,350 as a result of the largest historical increase in the Pell program, already approved as part of the president's economic stimulus bill. In 2010, the maximum grant is to rise to $5,550.
 The budget blueprint also proposes sweeping changes in the way the federal government provides student loans. For nearly two decades, the government has run two parallel student loan programs, one based on subsidies to private lenders and another as a direct government lending program.
 Under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, the government has paid a subsidy to banks and loan companies to make loans to students at a congressionally mandated interest rate. But during the turmoil in the financial markets last year, dozens of lenders withdrew from participation in the program, saying that they could not obtain capital at a cost that would make student lending profitable, forcing intervention by the Bush-era Department of Education to insure that student loans would continue to flow.
 Education Secretary Arnie Duncan said on Thursday that the Family Education Loan Program program had for some time been ''on life support.'' 
 The Obama administration now proposes to eliminate it. 
 ''That program has not only needlessly cost taxpayers billions of dollars, but has also subjected students to uncertainty because of turmoil in the financial markets,'' the administration's budget proposal says.
 In its place, the administration seeks to originate all new loans through its direct lending program, first established in the Clinton adminstration.
 Hundreds of private lenders currently receive subsidies under the Family Education Loan Program, and they will vehemently oppose these proposed changes. The largest of the private lenders is Sallie Mae, whose stocks plunged.after the plan was unveiled.
 Administration officials said their proposals would increase the budget of the Department of Education by about $500 million, in addition to the $81 billion already appropriated for 2009 and 2010 in the economic stimulus bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); GRANTS & GIFTS (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); FAMILY (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: SLM CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (57%)

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1132 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
Front Page
 An article on Feb. 18 about people in their 20s who, unable to afford health insurance, rely on a scattershot network of improvised remedies described incorrectly the operation of an insulin pump used by Robert Voris, 27, a diabetic who works at a restaurant in Brooklyn. The pump administers insulin but does not in fact monitor blood-sugar levels. The insulin is injected through intravenous tubing attached to the pump; the pump itself is not inserted under the skin. The article also misidentified the items Mr. Voris stockpiled in 2007, when he last had insurance. They were tubing and other supplies, not insulin pumps.
 Because of an editing error, the article also referred erroneously in some editions to the $706-a-month income limit for a single adult to qualify for Medicaid. That figure is less than what a full-time minimum-wage worker would earn -- not more. (Go to Article) 
 National
 An article on Thursday about a Supreme Court argument in an identity-theft case misattributed a comment from one of the justices, repeating an error in the court transcript. It was Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. -- not Justice John Paul Stevens -- who said: ''There's a basic problem here. You get an extra two years if it just so happens that the number you picked out of the air belonged to someone else.'' (Go to Article)
 A headline on a report in the National Briefing column on Wednesday about a decline in charitable giving referred incompletely to that drop. As the report correctly noted, the number of all charitable gifts of $1 million or more -- not just large bequests -- fell in the last half of 2008. (Go to Article)
 A chart on Wednesday with excerpts from President Obama's address to Congress on Tuesday referred incompletely to similar speeches that were not formal State of the Union addresses. Besides President Obama's speech and one by President Bush in 2001, a speech by President Clinton in 1993 was also not a State of the Union address.
 New York
 An article on Wednesday about a child abduction case involving a New Jersey man and his son that has strained ties between Brazil and the United States misstated, at one point, part of the name of a treaty both countries have signed that provides a mechanism to solve international child abduction cases. As noted elsewhere, it is the Hague Abduction -- not Adoption -- Convention. (Go to Article)
 Business Day
 An article on Wednesday about the quarterly earnings of several retailers misattributed the source of a comment by Terry J. Lundgren, chief executive of Macy's. Mr. Lundgren was quoted from a press release issued by the company; he did not make the comment in a conference call with investors. (Go to Article)
 The Arts
 An article on Wednesday about humanities scholars' concerns that their field will be hit hard by the economic downturn misstated the name of a new humanities database organized by the American Academy of Arts & Sciences with a consortium of organizations. It is the Humanities Indicators Prototype, not the Humanities Prototype Indicators. (Go to Article)
 A correction in this space on Feb. 12 about an article on hip-hop in China misstated the family name of the director of Acupuncture Records, who commented on the constraints faced by some musicians in China. As the article correctly stated, she is Wong Miao (not Wang Miao). The correction also misidentified the kind of music Acupuncture Records produces. It is electronic, not hip-hop. (Go to Correction)
 The Times welcomes comments and suggestions, or complaints about errors that warrant correction. Messages on news coverage can be e-mailed to nytnews@nytimes.com or left toll-free at 1-888-NYT-NEWS (1-888-698-6397). Comments on editorials may be e-mailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.
 Readers dissatisfied with a response or concerned about the paper's journalistic integrity may reach the public editor at public@nytimes.com or (212) 556-7652.
 For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or e-mail customercare@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (86%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (84%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DIABETES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); CHARITIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); TRANSCRIPTS (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); IDENTITY THEFT (52%)

PERSON: JOHN LUNDGREN (74%); BILL CLINTON (53%); JOHN ROBERTS (51%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (51%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); TERRY J LUNDGREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



1133 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1626 words

HEADLINE: Desperate Times Call for ... Liberal Arts?

BYLINE: AMANDA CHRISTY BROWN and KRISTIN MCGINN MAHONEY


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students examine the value of humanities education during a time of economic turmoil by reflecting on their learning experiences and discussing the role the humanities play in their lives in school and beyond. Click here for a companion lesson for Grades 3-5. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students examine the value of humanities education during a time of economic turmoil by reflecting on their learning experiences and discussing the role the humanities play in their lives in school and beyond. Click here for a companion lesson for Grades 3-5.
Authors:
Amanda Christy Brown, The Learning Network
Kristin McGinn Mahoney , The Learning Network
Suggested Time Allowance: Three to five class periods
Activities/Procedures:
Click here for a companion lesson for Grades 3-5.
1. Warm-Up/Do Now:
Note to Teacher: Though the article defines the humanities as including the arts, for simplicity's sake, you may wish to limit the following activities to include English/language arts, languages, history/social studies and civics. You may also wish to include any other humanities courses offered at your school, like religious studies or philosophy.
In their journals, students respond to the following prompt: "Imagine that budget cuts at our school forced us to stop teaching English, foreign languages, history, art and music. What would happen?" Tell students they may choose to respond to the cancellation of one or all of the subjects listed.
Once students have finished writing, invite them to share. Tell students that these subjects are all grouped together as the humanities, and that their value is often questioned during periods of economic trouble. Then ask the following questions to encourage deeper reflection:
What subjects would be left in the curriculum if the humanities were cut?
What value do these subjects have that the humanities don't?
How would the school experience be different without the humanities?
Why might the value of humanities be questioned during downturns in the economy?
What would be lost if languages, history and the arts ceased to be taught at our school? (Encourage students to think of specific experiences they would miss out on if this came to be.)
How might their loss affect you -- both individually and as a group -- and your future?
2. Article Questions:
As a class, read and discuss the article "In Tough Times, the Humanities Must Justify Their Worth," focusing on the following questions:
a. What have universities traditionally believed the purpose of a liberal arts education to be?
b. Why have questions about the importance of the humanities taken on a new urgency?
c. What are some signs of trouble for the humanities?
d. In what ways do the disciplines grouped together as humanities (language, literature, the arts, history, cultural studies, philosophy and religion) help people explore "what it means to be a human being"?
e. What practical and economic value do the humanities have?
f. Why are some in the field uneasy about "marketing" the humanities in this way?
g. Why does Anthony T. Kronman, a law professor, believe that studying the humanities is more urgent today than ever before?
h. Do you agree?
i. Why does the author refer to President Obama in the article?
j. What would happen if humanities education became a luxury that only the very rich could afford?
3. Activity:
Ask students to use the handout My Life of Learning to make a timeline of their learning in the humanities from their earliest memories forward, writing down significant moments that have to do with their learning in this domain. Tell them to write positive memories above the line and negative memories below the line, as in the model on the handout. Students should feel free to skip around in time as memories come to them. Tell students that they will be sharing these in class, so they should not write down anything they won't be comfortable sharing later with their classmates. Before sending them off to work independently, model your own timeline on the board for students.
Once they have completed their timelines, ask them to choose one experience and reflect on it more fully in writing, using it as a microcosm to show what they learned and how it applies to the real world and their lives. Ask them to examine (in their journals) what they learned from it, how it applies to today and how it influences their thinking and understanding about the world or themselves.
Then, have students post their timelines around the room and examine one another's, looking for commonalities.
Reconvene as a class and begin a discussion by asking the following questions:
What are some of the experiences you might have missed out on if the humanities were cut from school?
What value do these experiences have?
Besides the experiences themselves, what would you miss out on?
What are the implications for missing experiences like these?
How might their loss across the nation affect our country and world?
What is the value of the humanities?
What do we learn from them?
What values does our educational system implicitly and explicitly teach?
Revisit Professor Kronman's comments in the article: "But 'the need for my older view of the humanities is, if anything, more urgent today,' he added, referring to the widespread indictment of greed, irresponsibility and fraud that led to the financial meltdown. In his view this is the time to re-examine 'what we care about and what we value,' a problem the humanities 'are extremely well-equipped to address.' "
To wrap up, ask: Given the state of the world, why study humanities? Is it a luxury? What is the value of a liberal arts education now? What is the value of the life of the mind?
4. For Homework or Future Classes:
Individually, students write a personal statement about their experiences in school and what they have come to value about their education. They might write for an audience of their peers, of incoming students or for a college admissions board. Encourage them to use concrete evidence from their own history as scholars as they detail their beliefs. They might draw inspiration from or bolster their arguments with quotations from the article or from the nearly 400 comments on it.
Related Times Resources:

        
Additional Times Articles and Multimedia:
Opinionator blog post: "The Last Professor"
        
Op-Ed: "What Life Asks of Us"
        
Op-Ed: "Put Culture in the Cabinet"
Article: "Curriculum Designed to Unite Art and Science"
Article: "At Some Medical Schools, Humanities Join the Curriculum"
        
Learning Network Resources:
Lesson Plan: "Master in Training"
Creating a timeline collage of personal expertise
Lesson Plan: "Making the Grade"
Examining grade inflation
Lesson Plan: "A Textbook Case"
Nominating books to be read in school
Lesson Plan: "The American Scholar?"
Examining anti-intellectualism in America
Lesson Plan: "Is It Worth It?"
Sharing opinions about the value of a college degree
        
Archival Times Materials:
"Why the Rhodes Scholarships Are Not Technical"
"Humanities in Education"
'The Humanities: Castles for the Masses?"
        
Times Topics:
Humanities
Education and Schools
Colleges and Universities
        
Other Resources:
National Endowment for the Humanities
        
Vocabulary:
elite, civic, critical, sprawling, vocation, prerequisites, endowment, urgency, lamented, hiring freeze, irrelevant, vitality, staunchest, advocates, reassessment, disjunction, chasm, Ivory Tower, baldly, stem cell research, consumable, indictment, fraud, humanist, travesties, heyday, province, inevitable
        
Extension Activities:
1. Many schools across the country are currently cutting programs in the humanities because of budget shortfalls. Imagine that your school is forced to cut art, music or drama. Write a letter to the school board in which you argue the value of one of these subjects to save it from being cut.
2. In addition to humanities and arts, other major educational categories are the sciences (including math) and vocations and trades. What is the value of each of these? How do they overlap and inform one another? Stage a debate with peers in which one side defends and the other attacks the premise that, for example, budding carpenters should be required to read Shakespeare, musicians should study math, and so on, as opposed to being permitted or required to specialize at a young age.
3. Engage in a research project to find out how the education backgrounds of the adults around you have affected their careers and lives. Draw up questions to ask about your subjects' educational background and how they use and draw upon what they learned in their current lives at work and at home. Then interview parents, other relatives, teachers and school officials. In class, share results and then discuss whether they suggest that indeed the humanities are of value beyond school.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Global studies: Choose a country and research how it educates its children. Pay attention to factors like subjects taught, how students are grouped or tracked, the daily schedule, graduation requirements and any significant differences from the United States. Then present your findings in class. Engage in a discussion of how the educational systems of other countries reflect what they value. What place do the humanities hold in different places?
Language arts: Choose a novel, play, story or poem that had a significant effect on you and write personal essays exploring its influence on your life. You may wish to cast essays in the style of National Public Radio's series "You Must Read This."
 Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-12
Behavioral Studies Standard 3: Understands that interactions among learning, inheritance and physical development affect human behavior.
Language Arts Standard 1: Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
Language Arts Standard 7: Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts.
Language Arts Standard 8: Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning.

        
In Tough Times, the Humanities Must Justify Their Worth

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (98%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HISTORY (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); PHILOSOPHY (77%); WRITERS (77%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); BUDGETS (73%); RELIGION (68%); BUDGET CUTS (67%) American History; Civics; Current Events; Education; Fine Arts; Geography; Global History; Language Arts; Media Studies; Social Studies

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2011



1134 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2505 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: February 28, 2009

 BODY:
International
NEW LEADER OF A RUSSIAN REGION INHERITS BURDENS AND HOPES
Soon it will be spring, bringing a new season of war between Ingush militants and the federal forces of Ingushetia, a tiny republic that neighbors Chechnya. The country's new president has brought with him hope and a number of reforms. But whether his new approach can bring the country under control is another question -- and a crucial one for Russia. PAGE A6
PLAN FOR IRAQ PULLOUT ANNOUNCED
President Obama said he would withdraw combat forces from Iraq by August 2010 and all remaining American troops by December 2011. PAGE A6 
Deployed Soldiers React A8
PAKISTAN'S RIFT MAY TEST OBAMA
An intensifying political struggle between Pakistan's pro-American president and the main opposition leader is almost certainly diverting the government's attention away from fighting the Qaeda and Taliban insurgency. That is exactly what the Obama administration does not want. News Analysis. PAGE A7
MASS GRAVE FOUND IN BANGLADESH
Police officers combing through the headquarters of mutinous border guards in Dhaka, Bangladesh, found a mass grave containing about 30 bodies, a local police official said. PAGE A7
U.S. TRAINS AFGHAN PILOTS
The United States is training American pilots to fly the helicopters of the former Soviet Union so the American pilots can in turn train, or retrain, Afghan pilots who once flew for the Russians, the Taliban or powerful warlords. The program is aimed at giving Afghanistan the ability to defend itself from the skies and one day allowing the Americans to leave. PAGE A8
U.N. OFFICIAL FAULTS INTELLIGENCE
A United Nations human rights official, investigating practices at Guantanamo Bay, has concluded that evidence obtained from the interrogations there is tainted and that foreign law-enforcement and intelligence officials who took part in those interrogations violated their legal obligation to reject the use of torture and arbitrary detention. PAGE A8
FARMERS SEETHE IN ARGENTINA
Argentine farmers, already suffering from their country's worst drought in more than a half-century, reacted angrily to reports that Argentina's president was contemplating nationalizing domestic and foreign grain trading. Argentina's two main daily newspapers reported that President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner was considering the move to effectively monopolize the country's most important export industry. PAGE A8
VATICAN CALLS APOLOGY INSUFFICIENT
The Vatican said that an apology by a bishop who has denied the scope of the Holocaust was not sufficient to restore him to full communion with the Roman Catholic Church. PAGE A9
EUROPE TO MEET TO UNIFY PLANS
European leaders have called an emergency meeting for this weekend to tackle disarray and disagreement over how to rescue the hardest-hit economies in the 27-nation European Union. Fault lines between old and new members, and between the union's historic core and countries in the east, are reopening with a vengeance. PAGE A9
The Saturday Profile A9
This Weekend
MAGAZINE
Defeated at the polls, divided over issues and outflanked by the Democrats, Republicans in Congress turn their lonely eyes to ... the former Speaker of the House? PAGE 28
ARTS & LEISURE
U2 is arguably the last megaband, and 30 years into their run -- with no lineup changes, no breakups, and no reunion -- the group, still, unabashedly, wants to release blockbuster. PAGE 1
TRAVEL
On their first trip as a threesome, Matt Gross, his wife and their 6-week-old daughter headed to Venice, which is notorious for horrible hotels and rip-off rates. But the trio found that Venice in the wintertime was free of tourists and decidedly infant-friendly -- giving them a chance to experience the city at an Italian pace. PAGE 1
Fashion
BOOMING FASHION FOR THE SLUMP
What markets? With masterly crafted curvilinear dresses and sensuous curls of fabric, the latest collection from Raf Simons seems a stimulus bill in itself. Though under economic pressures like every other designer these days, Mr. Simons, the designer at Jil Sander, has refused to let up. PAGE C10
National
DEMOCRATS LIMIT FUTURE FINANCING
Of Washington Voucher Program
Congressional Democrats have quietly inserted rules into a huge spending bill that would place conditions on the small school-voucher program in Washington, D.C., and are urging the schools chancellor to prepare the city's public schools to re-enroll 1,700 students currently attending private schools at taxpayer expense. But Republicans argue that the conditions were an effort to kill the nation's only federally financed voucher program. PAGE A10
MAYOR RESIGNS AFTER E-MAIL OUTCRY
Dean Grose, the mayor of Los Alamitos, Calif., a small suburb of Los Angeles, said he would resign after a public outcry over his e-mailing of a photo of the White House that had been altered so that it appeared to be bordered by a huge watermelon patch. PAGE A10
A BELLWETHER ON IMMIGRATION
The outcome of the case of Vialine Jean Paul, above, one of 30,000 Haitian nationals who have been ordered deported from the United States, could be a test of whether the Obama administration will break with the strict immigration enforcement policies of the Bush administration. PAGE A11
DEMOCRATIC FISSURES ON BUDGET
Congressional Democrats cautiously embraced President Obama's budget, with its ambitious blend of new spending and tax increases. Yet fault lines began to show on important provisions regarding taxes, agriculture, energy and education. PAGE A12
CONSERVATIVES WONDER WHAT'S NEXT
At the annual conference of the Conservative Political Action Committee, there was a lot of serious thinking about what it means to be a conservative in the age of Obama. Some said that it was time for the Republicans to move to the center, but the hard right was pushing back at that notion. PAGE A13
CAPS, TRADES AND QUESTIONS
In proposing mandatory caps on greenhouse gases, linked to global warming, and a system for auctioning permits to companies that emit them, President Obama is taking on a huge political and economic challenge. And the full cost and benefits of controlling greenhouse gas emissions remain unknown, and perhaps unknowable. PAGE A13
OBAMA TO UNDO ABORTION RULE
In a move that had been expected for weeks, the Obama administration moved to undo a last-minute Bush administration rule granting broad protections to health workers who refuse to take part in abortions or provide other health care that goes against their consciences. PAGE A15
Obituaries
WILLIAM J. JORDEN
A former diplomatic correspondent of The New York Times who became a diplomat himself, serving as the United States ambassador to Panama and writing a highly regarded memoir of his involvement in the Panama Canal treaty negotiations of the 1970s. PAGE A20
New York
THE PERPETUAL PROTESTER,
Armed With Causes and Costumes
Every week, Robert Lesko scans NYProtest, a listing of street demonstrations distributed by e-mail by a fellow activist, and chooses three or four that match his leftist political leanings. He is one of the more ubiquitous activists at Manhattan rallies and is known for the colorful costumes he uses to attract press attention. PAGE A16
Crusader and Keeper of Secrets A16
SUSPECT ARRESTED IN FATAL BEATING
The police arrested a second suspect in the brutal beating death of an Ecuadorean immigrant in Brooklyn. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said that the suspect, Keith Phoenix, made a full confession in the killing of Jose O. Sucuzhanay, who was walking arm in arm with his brother on Dec. 7 when they were attacked and Jose Sucuzhanay was beaten with a bottle and an aluminum baseball bat. PAGE A17
Business
A TEXTILE CITY IS HOBBLED
By a Global Downturn
The once booming Chinese industrial city of Shaoxing had 20,000 textile and garment factories, crowded with workers knitting and sewing the wares sold at big American retailers like Gap and Wal-Mart. But those factories are closing as demand in the United States has waned. PAGE B1
QUESTIONS SURROUND CITI BAILOUT
The federal government's latest rescue for Citigroup is the biggest and most daring attempt yet to stabilize the nation's beleaguered banks. Will this plan, the third since October, be the one that finally works? PAGE B1
PROPPING UP A HOUSE OF CARDS
Joe Nocera writes that a bailout of the American International Group, the world's biggest insurer, is really a bailout of its trading partners -- which essentially constitutes the entire Western banking system. But he suggests that A.I.G. should evoke a special outrage. ''More than even Citi or Merrill, A.I.G. is ground zero for the practices that led the financial system to ruin,'' he writes. PAGE B1
CONTRACTORS AWAIT BUDGET DETAILS
President Obama's new budget increases military spending by 4 percent, but military contractors are wondering what the priorities of the new administration -- which has made clear it wants to shift spending from futuristic weapons systems to simpler arms that troops can use now -- will mean for the industry. PAGE B3
G.E. to Reduce Its Dividend B3
DRUG MAKER'S DOCUMENTS RELEASED
According to internal documents released in litigation, AstraZeneca covered up unfavorable studies of Seroquel, its $4.4 billion blockbuster antipsychotic drug. The lawsuit is between the company and lawyers for thousands of people who sued the company because they said the drug, above, caused diabetes and weight gain. PAGE B6
Arts
FAR FROM A FAIRY TALE:
The Walls of Bruno Schulz
The drawings of Bruno Schulz, a Jewish painter forced to illustrate a children's playroom in a Nazi officer's home before being killed, are on view for the first time at the Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum in Israel. And while this haunting exhibition will not end the controversy over whether they should have remained in Ukraine, it offers a look into artistic defiance in the face of overwhelming cruelty. PAGE C1
THE RETURN TO 30 ROCK
The comedian Jimmy Fallon is returning to the building and the network where he made his name during a six-year stint on ''Saturday Night Live,'' replacing Conan O'Brien as the host of ''Late Night'' on NBC. Although nervous, he remains excited with the sense that this is a job full of history and fraught with questions about the future. PAGE C1
MEDIA TWITTERS CAN'T TYPE NO
As news anchors and television personalities who have their own programs, Web sites, blogs and pages on Facebook and MySpace parcel out their lives 140 characters at a time, Twitter, the unfiltered and instant outlet for self-expression, is beginning to look more like yet another gateway drug to full-blown media narcissism, Alessandra Stanley writes. PAGE C1
ASSEMBLING THE QATAR ORCHESTRA
The Qatar Philharmonic, formed from scratch, is the latest effort by Persian Gulf nations to cultivate culture at home and raise its international standing abroad. The orchestra made its debut in Qatar in October and performed last week at the Kennedy Center as part of the festival Arabesques: Arts of the Arab World. PAGE C1
RENEWED PRAISE FOR A NOVELIST
In Oslo, a celebration is honoring the Norwegian novelist Knut Hamsun, who wrote ''Hunger'' and ''Pan'' and welcomed the brutal German occupation during World War II. Shunned by his countrymen and heavily fined for his spectacular wartime betrayal, Mr. Hamsun died in 1952 at 92. Why the festivities, then? Call it reconciliation therapy, or a national airing out. PAGE C1
A Messiaen Piece Returns Home C3
When Indie Met Classical C4
Film Review: 'Street Fighter' C7
Sports
HOW THE N.B.A. LEARNED
To Love (or Tolerate) the Zone
Some of the N.B.A.'s top-tier players were less than enthused when the N.B.A. legalized zone defenses -- in which players defend an area and not an individual opposing players -- in 2001. But the introduction of zones was intended to improve scoring and make games more aesthetically pleasing. And scoring is up, even as the stigma surrounding the defenses lingers. PAGE B11
OPENING UP THEIR WALLETS
The N.F.L. has said that it has been deeply affected by the recession, so Redskins owner Dan Snyder's spending spree in the early days of the league's free agency is especially jarring. The team signed Albert Haynesworth, the prize of the free agency class, to a contract worth $100 million, just hours after re-signing cornerback DeAngelo Hall to a six-year contract that includes $22.5 million guaranteed. PAGE B9
FROM THE MAJORS TO ITALY'S DUGOUT
Mike Piazza is settling into his new role as the hitting coach for the Azzurri, who will represent Italy at the World Baseball Classic. The team is a work in progress, much like Piazza's Italian. PAGE B10
RODRIGUEZ TO MEET WITH OFFICIALS
Alex Rodriguez is scheduled to meet with investigators for Major League Baseball on Sunday, according to a person with knowledge of the meeting. The investigators want to meet with Rodriguez to discuss how he received performance-enhancing drugs and whether the person or persons who supplied them had access to team clubhouses and provided the substances to other players. PAGE B11
MARBURY'S CELTICS DEBUT
Stephon Marbury's season debut came Friday night in Boston, where the former Knicks guard was signed by the defending champion, the Celtics. Marbury, who had developed a reputation as a malcontent, hopes to start anew, while the Celtics are looking to pad their backcourt, which has been thinned by suspensions and injuries. PAGE B11
Editorial
PLAYING WITH FIRE IN PAKISTAN
Almost no one wants to say it out loud. But between the threats from extremists, an unraveling economy, battling civilian leaders and tensions with nuclear rival India, Pakistan is edging ever closer to the abyss. PAGE A18
GUN SENSE AND NONSENSE
This week, the Supreme Court upheld an important restriction on gun ownership that bars people convicted of crimes involving domestic violence from owning guns. Unfortunately, the same good sense on gun violence did not prevail in Congress. PAGE A18
EVIDENCE AND HEALTH CARE REFORM
Medicare has proposed not to pay for so-called virtual colonoscopies because there is not enough evidence they would benefit people ages 65 and older. That may be disappointing for older Americans, but those sort of judgments will be fundamental to any successful health care reform effort. PAGE A18
Op-Ed
BOB HERBERT
Young people are getting hit especially hard in an employment environment that is worse than many people realize. PAGE A19
GAIL COLLINS
We have long since gotten used to the idea that movies are awash with product placements, that the basketball game we're watching is part of, say, the Doritos Home Classic at the Dunkin' Donuts Center. Now, you have to wonder if the postcrash networks are going to be taking things to a whole new level. PAGE A19
THE GREAT SOLVENT NORTH
Canadian banks were once notorious for their stodgy practices and government coddling. Now that they have weathered the financial crisis relatively well, these banks are widely praised for their conservatism. In an Op-Ed article, Theresa Tedesco, chief business correspondent for The National Post, argues that American banks could learn a few lessons from their neighbors up north. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (pg. A2
 pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); RELIGION (86%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); HELICOPTERS (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); DROUGHT (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARGENTINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (93%); BANGLADESH (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); CUBA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2011



1135 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: We Made It Through the Financial Aid Process!

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Big Test Before College? Filling Out the Financial Aid Form'' (front page, Feb. 22):
 As the parent of a high school senior, I was faced this year with the daunting task of filling out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. I was fortunate to know about College Goal Sunday, a nonprofit program that provides free information and assistance to families applying for financial assistance for higher education. 
 In January, I attended a session at a local high school. We were given a list of materials we should bring, if available. We were then walked through a worksheet, one question at a time, with ample opportunity to ask for clarification. As a result, this daunting project became easy to do. 
 I filled in the online form the next day, only having to add a handful of exact figures once our tax returns had been completed. I would like to express my gratitude to College Goal Sunday for making my life just a little easier in these tough times.
 Jane Chertoff Hudson, Mass., Feb. 22, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Yes, by all means let's simplify the Free Application for Federal Student Aid. But let's also commit ourselves to putting the emphasis in awarding financial aid back on aiding financially needy students. 
 The free application is intended to provide a common framework for assessing a student's ability to pay for college -- to award need-based financial aid. But over the last two decades, colleges and universities, and the states and the federal government, have been shifting financial aid away from need and toward merit.
 While ''merit aid'' sounds good, it is aid awarded to those who probably have more ability to pay for a college education. And that means less aid is available for those without the ability to pay. 
 Often, merit aid is awarded by colleges and universities more to attract and enroll students from higher income families than on any basis that truly deserves being called ''merit.'' Our country cannot afford this. We need every young man and young woman to attain a college degree to be contributing participants in our democracy and our economy. 
 We know that the biggest obstacle to attending college is the lack of money. Now, especially, we need to invest more in seeing that every young person has the financial wherewithal to attend college. That will require more need-based aid and less merit aid. And we need a good, clear way (the free application or some replacement) to help us determine who has greater need for financial aid.
 Douglas C. Bennett President, Earlham College Richmond, Ind., Feb. 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1136 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Maybe It's Time to Rethink The Cost of College Prep

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
WATCHING our sons' college funds dwindle to almost nothing, I am grateful that my older son is on his way to high school, not a university, this fall. Otherwise, we would not only be facing a staggering tuition bill, but we would also have to pay for what has become the obligatory precollege marathon.
 Perhaps nothing, except the anxiety before the birth of a first baby, can match the concern parents feel about prepping for college. There is the same desire to control the process and fear that making a mistake can ruin a child's future.
 So I can understand the inclination to buy every product and service possible to cover all bases. 
 But if anything good comes from these stressful economic times, it may be that parents will be forced to rethink the idea that more is always better. Countless test preparation courses and dozens of visits to college campuses are not only expensive but can unnecessarily add to the frenzy already surrounding the process.
 Providing good guidance is one thing, ''but I think the amount of money people think they need to spend is out of control,'' said Bob Sweeney, a counselor at our local school, Mamaroneck High School, in suburban New York.
 Take my friend Edie, whose son is a college sophomore. She estimates she spent more than $10,000 before he even started college.
 There was about $2,800 for a private college counselor, $150-an-hour SAT prep once a week in math and English (that's $300 weekly) over about five months and visits to about 10 campuses.
 ''This is a rich man's business,'' she said.
 My friends and I smugly tell one another that all we needed to be prepared for the SAT in the late 1970s were two sharpened No. 2 pencils. And campus tours? The first time I visited the University of California, Berkeley -- one of two universities I applied to -- was when I moved there.
 But that was about three decades ago. I know that we will offer our older son more than a few pencils and a pat on the head, but I also know that we don't have to indulge in every option in the quest to get him safely ensconced on a college campus somewhere.
 I tried to figure out what we might spend. First are the essentials: college application fees (averaging $60 per institution) and fees for the SAT ($45) and ACT ( $31). Financial aid is available to cover these fees, if necessary. The best way to get more information is to ask your child's school counselor or visit collegeboard.com for the SATs or act.org for the ACT.
 So if our child applies to 10 universities -- which seems unlikely but is apparently average in my part of the world -- and takes the admissions tests a few times, we're already up to nearly $1,000.
 And that is not counting add-ons.
 Parents and counselors I spoke with agreed that students should take at least one course to prepare for the SAT, if only to give them a sense of what the test is about and to alleviate anxiety. 
 National companies like Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions, the Princeton Review, Sylvan Learning and TutorVista.com, offer a variety of offline and online tutoring options at a wide range of prices. 
 For free help, check out Number2.com and the SAT and ACT Web sites.
 Mr. Sweeney, who has been a school counselor for 21 years, said that parents should think rationally about why they are paying for test preparation courses.
 ''I'm not against prep tests -- they can help give kids a certain confidence,'' he said. ''But I don't see the need for students who are already scoring high. It's like repolishing the apple. If your kid is getting close to 700, why spend thousands to get a few points higher?'' The top grade for each section of the SAT is 800.
 Then there are the campus visits, which can cost thousands of dollars if the colleges are across the country. 
 Tons of information is available online, including virtual tours, from the universities themselves and independent Web sites, like unigo.com, where students write reviews.
 But parents, students and counselors agree that, if at all possible, it is important to visit a few colleges to get a sense of the culture that you can only get by being there.
 There is another reason to visit: It shows interest, and colleges like to see that. It means you're probably not frivolously applying with no real intention of attending if accepted.
 But lots of people do not have the time or money to visit a wide range of schools. In that case, try to attach a campus visit to a vacation, experts say. Or visit after being accepted to decide where to go.
 Now what about private college counselors? A lot of parents I know use them, even though they acknowledge that they could probably get the same information themselves or through school counselors.
 But they like the security.
 ''The reality is, this is our first child, and it's a comfort,'' my friend Nancy said. ''We're trying not to get too stressed, but we want to do the best that we can for her.''
 Alex Weiner, the owner and head counselor of Collegewise, a college counseling company that has branches on the East and West Coasts, said his counselors offer hourly assistance or a $2,995 package to do everything, including helping to narrow a list of colleges, staging mock interviews and helping to select clothes for interviews.
 ''We brainstorm ideas for the essays and spend time talking about what to write about -- what makes their eyes light up, not what they think the college wants to know,'' he said. Then Collegewise counselors edit (not write, he specified) the essays.
 Parents who use private counselors also like the idea that someone else plays the role of police officer, urging their child to rework essays and submit applications on time. 
 Counselors cost $70 to $300 an hour or $750 to $6,000 for package deals, said Mark Sklarow, executive director of the Independent Educational Consultants Association.
 ''Most people don't need to hire a private counselor,'' Mr. Sklarow said, especially if the high school student has already decided where to apply. ''It can help a student who is really at sea or one who has specific learning or anxiety issues -- or one, who say, is very advanced in art.''
 He noted that some guidance counselors are too inexperienced or overloaded to adequately address a student's needs. Mr. Sweeney suggested at least giving the guidance counselor a chance before booking a private counselor. ''This isn't brain surgery,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''It's a matter of asking the right questions to help students narrow down their choices and develop the right list.''
 So we have three years before the process begins to mull this over, to try to maintain some sense of perspective and some shred of sanity. And, yes, most important, to restock the college saving accounts.
 E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon Totillo teaches an SAT preparatory class in mathematics, a new elective offered at Pelham High School in Pelham, N.Y.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1137 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: The Great Solvent North

BYLINE: By THERESA TEDESCO. 
Theresa Tedesco is the chief business correspondent for The National Post.

DATELINE: Toronto 

 BODY:
 HAS the world turned upside down? America, the capital of capitalism, is pondering nationalizing a handful of banks. Meanwhile, Canada, whose banking system had long been notorious for its stodgy practices and government coddling, is now being celebrated for those very qualities.
 The Canadian banking system, which proved resilient in the global economic crisis, is finally getting its day in the sun. A recent World Economic Forum report ranked it the soundest in the world, mostly as the result of its conservative practices. (The United States ranked 40th). 
 President Obama has joined the adoring throng. He recently said that Canada has ''shown itself to be a pretty good manager of the financial system in the economy in ways that we haven't always been here in the United States.'' Paul Volcker, former chief of the United States Federal Reserve, commented that what he's arguing for ''looks more like the Canadian system than the American system.'' 
 Most people don't know that the vision behind Canada's banking system, made up of a few large, national banks with branches from coast to coast, actually had its beginnings in the United States. Canada's system is the product of a banking framework inspired by Alexander Hamilton, the first American secretary of the Treasury. Hamilton envisioned the First Bank of the United States, chartered in 1791, as a central bank modeled on the Bank of England.
 Canadians found inspiration in Hamilton's model, but not all Americans did. In the 1830s, President Andrew Jackson opposed extending the charter of the Second Bank of the United States, perceiving it as monopolistic. Money-lending functions were then assumed by local and state-chartered banks, eventually giving rise to the free-market, decentralized system that America has today.
 Today, Canada's system remains truer to Hamilton's ideal. The five major chartered banks, the few regional banks and handful of large insurance companies are all regulated by the federal government. Canadian banks are relatively constrained in the amounts they can lend. Canadian banks are required to have a bigger cushion to absorb losses than American banks. In addition, Canadian government regulations protect the domestic banks by limiting foreign competition. They also keep banks broadly owned by public shareholders.
 Since Canada's financial services sector was deregulated in 1987, permitting the banks to buy brokerage houses, they have enjoyed vast earnings power because of their diverse businesses and operations. And in contrast to the recent shotgun marriages at bargain prices between ailing Wall Street brokerages and American banks, Canadian banks paid top dollar decades ago for profitable, blue-chip investment firms.
 Canadian banks are known to be risk-averse, and this has served them well. While their American counterparts were loading up their books with risky mortgages, Canadian banks maintained their lending requirements, largely avoiding subprime mortgages. The buttoned-down banks in Canada also tended to keep these types of securities on their books, rather than packaging them and selling them to investors. This meant that the exposures they did have to weak mortgages were more visible to the marketplace. 
 The big five Canadian banks -- Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank, Bank of Nova Scotia, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and Bank of Montreal -- survived the recent turmoil relatively unscathed. Their balance sheets remain intact and their capital ratios are comfortably above requirements. Yes, Prime Minister Stephen Harper's government may buy as much as 125 billion Canadian dollars (about $100 billion) worth of mortgages, increasing banks' capacity to lend. But this is small change compared with the scale of Washington's bailout.
 Few would have predicted that Canadian banks, long derided as among the least autonomous because of stringent government oversight, would emerge from the global mayhem as some of the more independent international players.
 Since Mr. Obama seems to admire the Canadian banking system, his administration might want to take a page out of its playbook. 
 This would entail building a national banking system based on a small number of large, broadly held, centrally and rigorously regulated firms. Imitating the Canadian model would require sweeping consolidation of American banks. This would be a very good thing. Washington had difficulty figuring out the magnitude of the financial crisis because there are so many thousands of banks that it was impossible for regulators to get into all of them. 
 Washington is already on the path to achieving consolidation. Eventually, some of the larger banks into which the government is injecting taxpayer money will probably be deemed beyond help, and will either be allowed to die or be partnered with other banks. The market will take its cues from this stress-testing, and make its own bets on which banks will survive. It's hard to predict how many will have survived when the dust settles, but the new landscape might consist of only 50 or 60 banking institutions. More radically, Washington could take over the licensing of banks from the states, or, at the very least, consider more stringent regulation of global and super-regional banks. After all, the Canadian system is considered successful not only because it has fewer banks to regulate, but because regulation is based on the tenets of safety and soundness. 
 There is no time to waste. Reconfiguring the American banking structure to look more like the Canadian model would help restore much-needed confidence in a beleaguered financial system. Why not emulate the best in the world, which happens to be right next door? At the very least, Hamilton would have approved.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEFF JACKSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); INSURANCE (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1138 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Haitians Look for Shift In Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Vialine Jean Paul has noticed a change when she drops her 7-year-old daughter off at school each morning in recent weeks. Her daughter, Angela, is not sure that her mother will be back to pick her up.
 ''She tells me, 'Mommy, good luck,' '' Mrs. Jean Paul said, choking back tears. ''She asks me, 'Mommy, if you go to Haiti, what will happen to me?' '' 
 Though Angela does not know it, the hopes of tens of thousands of Haitian immigrants and their relatives have become fixed on her mother's fate. Mrs. Jean Paul is one of more than 30,000 Haitian citizens who have been ordered deported from the United States. Her case could be an early test of whether the Obama administration will break with the strict immigration enforcement policies of the Bush administration. 
 After an estimated 1,000 people were killed in mudslides in Haiti last year, the government asked the United States to grant temporary protected status to Haitian immigrants -- relief that was extended when Honduras and El Salvador were hit by similar disasters. The designation is intended for countries in such dire trouble that receiving deportees would undermine their stability. 
 Deportations of Haitians were temporarily suspended last September, while the Bush administration considered the request. In December, the request was denied and the deportations resumed. 
 Lawyers say hundreds of people were detained, pushing detention centers across Florida beyond capacity. Hundreds of other immigrants were forced to wear electronic monitoring devices.
 Advocates for immigrants said the arrests and deportations have taken a toll on Haitian communities, tearing immigrants -- whose only crime was entering the United States illegally -- from their American spouses and children and condemning them to lives of poverty and violence in a country devastated by political instability and natural disaster.
 ''They told us they were going after criminal aliens,'' said her lawyer, Cheryl Little, referring to the immigration policies of the Bush administration. ''Would we be any safer if Vialine were deported? I think not. We are devoting a lot of resources going after the wrong people.''
 Mrs. Jean Paul, 35, had not set foot in Haiti since she fled 17 years ago, in the turmoil after a military coup. During her time in this country, she had married an American citizen and devoted herself to taking care of Angela, who suffers from an undiagnosed illness that causes severe headaches and vomiting.
 On Feb. 10, the date she was ordered to report for deportation after exhausting efforts to remain in the United States, she was on her way to an immigration office to turn herself in. Then her cellphone rang, and an immigration officer told her that her deportation had been delayed.
 Aides to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said she was reviewing the matter of Haitian deportations. 
 Meanwhile, the Haitian government has refused to issue travel documents to deportees, and the United States authorities said they were worried that confusion in Haiti over American policy was causing a surge in the numbers of Haitians trying to flee their country. 
 The Coast Guard intercepted 624 Haitians at sea in January, compared with none in November. Another 214 were intercepted on an overloaded freighter last weekend. 
 A decision on Ms. Jean Paul's case is expected March 9.
 Saintenese Mentor said her husband, Brice, might not have that long. A former aide at an adult education center and the father of two children born in the United States, he was detained six months ago, Mrs. Mentor said. 
 Mr. Mentor's lawyers said the authorities had told them his deportation was imminent.
 Mrs. Mentor said her 2-year-old son wakes up crying for his father every night, while her 3-year-old daughter has refused to learn to count or tie her shoes until he comes home.
 In the meantime, she said, without her husband's income, her family is close to losing everything. Their home is in foreclosure, she said, and their bills are months overdue.
 ''I'm waiting to see what God is going to do,'' she said. ''I'm only human. I can't do anymore.''
 A State Department official, who asked not to be named because temporary protected status is a Homeland Security matter, said the United States was aware of the hardship caused in Haiti by last year's storms. He noted that the United States responded with humanitarian assistance, including medical services provided aboard the amphibious assault ship Kearsarge.
 But, he said, the United States determined that a strong international presence in Haiti, led by some 10,000 United Nationspeacekeepers, gave that country sufficient support to accommodate deportees.
 ''This is a controversial position,'' the official said, acknowledging a flood of letters from Haitian advocates and members of Congress, along with newspaper editorials calling on President Obama to stop the deportations. ''But we believed Haiti had the structures on the ground that it needed to solve its problems.''
 Haiti's ambassador to the United States, Ray Joseph, disagreed with that assessment. Haiti's existence has largely been defined by chaos. But the storms, he said, deepened the crisis, fueling runaway inflation and food shortages. He said tens of thousands of storm victims have been left without proper shelter, and the country is plagued by violent crime.
 ''Haiti had a very, very bad year in 2008,'' Mr. Joseph said. ''Why send these people back, when we have no place to put them?''
 Louiness Petit-Frere exists on the charity of friends, according to his wife and relatives. He was detained six months ago when he and his wife, an American citizen went to request legal status for him. He was deported in January.
 ''He has no family there,'' said his wife, Sherly Desir Petit-Frere, who recently returned from visiting him. ''He has no water, no electricity, no work. It's hell for him.''
 Mr. Petit-Frere's brother, Sgt. Nikenson Pierre Louis, just returned from two combat tours in Iraq.
 ''All the hard work and fighting I did to defend this country, I feel like none of that mattered,'' Sergeant Pierre Louis. ''My brother was no criminal. He never got into trouble. And still they threw him back into a shark pool.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vialine Jean Paul, whose deportation case may be an early test for thousands of Haitians, with her 7-year-old daughter, Angela.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); DEPORTATION (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); COUPS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JANET NAPOLITANO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONDURAS (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1139 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Gentlemen, Race Your Start-Ups

BYLINE: By PAUL OBERJUERGE

DATELINE: FONTANA, Calif. 

 BODY:
Laid off by Bill Davis Racing the week before Christmas, Tommy Baldwin Jr. knew there was little demand for a 42-year-old crew chief in an economic downturn that was shredding race teams and leaving many Nascar veterans unemployed. His prospects for getting back into the Sprint Cup Series were as bleak as a corporate earnings forecast. 
 With all that free time, Baldwin said he started thinking and ''taking a look around at the parts and pieces and people that might be available.'' It prompted a decision. ''I'm going to build a racecar and a major Cup program, and that's it,'' he said. ''I'm a racer. I didn't know, really, anything else to do.''
 He cleaned out his savings and on Jan. 5 announced the creation of Tommy Baldwin Racing, a one-car team with big aspirations but little cash. 
 In no time a sort of Nascar barn-raising broke out. Unemployed mechanics turned up at Baldwin's shop in Mooresville, N.C., offering to work, free, for his makeshift team. On Jan. 12, he and his unpaid crew qualified for the Daytona 500, and three days later finished 25th in the Sprint Cup's biggest race, for a payday of $273,513.
 Baldwin's is one of a dozen underfinanced teams scrambling to gain ground in the nation's premier racing circuit, one that offers qualifying slots for 43 cars every Sunday yet is down to about 35 fully financed teams, from 50 in 2007. That leaves open seven to nine spots on the starting grid each week for those bold or reckless enough to chase them. 
 ''There's never been a better opportunity for teams with less funding, less personnel, to get some spectacular finishes and maybe a win,'' said Jeff Gordon, a four-time Cup champion. ''You'd be happy for them because it's a huge notch in their belt, but it's also not like you're battling them for a championship.''
 This new species of start-up owner spans the Nascar community. Jeremy Mayfield is a former Cup driver from Kentucky; Phil Parsons hails from Detroit and is better known as a Nascar trucks series television commentator; Kirk Shelmerdine is the Pennsylvania-born former crew chief for Dale Earnhardt; Kevin Buckler is a sports car veteran with experience in the trucks series who owns a vineyard in Sonoma County, Calif. 
 They practice fiscal sanity and share the romance of the quest, while hoping sponsors soon buy into their story line. 
 They are also proving that it is possible to race on the cheap, even at the elite Sprint Cup level, thanks to surplus equipment and crew dumped on the market by disbanded teams. ''I couldn't have done this a year ago,'' Mayfield said. ''I couldn't have done it six months ago. It's a unique situation.'' 
 Parsons, 51, said, ''Quite frankly, I never thought I personally would be in a position to be an owner in this garage.'' 
 The IEG Sponsorship Report, a firm that tracks sports marketing, predicts a 5.7 percent drop, to $3.3 billion, in corporate support of North American motor racing in 2009, a decline of $190 million, and the first downturn in 24 years. Tens of millions of dollars evaporated in the off-season. Corporate heavyweights like Texaco/Havoline and AAA gave up major Sprint Cup sponsorships; Wrigley's and FreeCreditReport.com ended lucrative deals. 
 In previous years, the back of the pack consisted of fairly dysfunctional teams blowing through $15 million or more per failed season.
 ''Everyone seems to want new blood, whatever business it is,'' said Buckler, owner of the Racer's Group, ''and I think if we can properly position ourselves to be at the center of the Cinderella story of a new team coming in and making it and find ourselves running solidly in the pack, that's my goal, to be that independent team that keeps the dream alive.'' 
 The new business model calls for small staffs, leased engines, borrowed technology, used haulers, rented workshops, cheap motels and commercial aviation. ''No Garage Mahals,'' Buckler said.
 Many in and around Nascar would like for one or more of the start-up teams to succeed. There is a sense that the sport is fossilizing around a handful of wealthy teams.
 Brian France, Nascar's chairman and chief executive, said at Daytona that breakthroughs by the upstarts would be very encouraging. ''Someone who says, 'I didn't have the biggest budget but was still competitive,' that would be a wonderful story to see unfold in 2009,'' he said.
 Jimmie Johnson, the three-time defending Sprint Cup champion, said, ''It's the sort of thing Nascar was founded on.'' 
 The circuit's standard Car of Tomorrow, now in use on every track, helps newcomers because it enables them to buy the same chassis the top teams are running. Nascar's decision to cancel preseason testing saved the newcomers hundreds of thousands of dollars, as well.
 ''Breaking through to the front ranks is a whole other level because those guys have spent millions and millions of dollars simply on those last couple of tenths of seconds per lap that are almost unobtainable to teams like us,'' Buckler said.
 The powerful group of Hendrick Motorsports, Joe Gibbs Racing, Richard Childress Racing and Roush Fenway Racing has supplied the winners in 34 of 38 races since the opening of the 2008 season. All 12 cars in the 2008 Chase for the Cup came from those four teams, which budget as much as $30 million a car and employ 100 people per driver. 
 Mayfield plans to spend $6 million this season and has about 20 employees on his team. Parsons counts ''about six full-time guys'' in mismatched T-shirts and jeans.
 What if a Nascar upstart wins a race?
 ''It would be fantastic, and for the millions of people around the country who are unemployed, it would make a great story,'' said H. A. Wheeler, a racing marketing consultant known as Humpy who used to operate Lowe's Motor Speedway in Charlotte, N.C.
 It also is an unlikely story, given that five and a half miles an hour separated the top qualifier from the bottom at the Auto Club 500 here last weekend, a significant gap over a long race. 
 A realistic goal for a newcomer is climbing into the top 35 teams in season points. That status guarantees a spot on the starting grid and the purse money that comes with taking a green flag, which equals $264,000 or more at Daytona, $82,000 or more at Fontana. Qualifying for all 36 Sprint Cup races can earn a team about $3 million. 
 ''If we make the races, the business model works,'' Parsons said. ''If we don't, it doesn't.'' 
 Some in Nascar worry that the shortage of fully financed teams will tempt new teams to ''game the system,'' as Buckler put it, by doing just enough to qualify, then dropping out of the race in its early stages, a practice known as ''starting and parking.'' It is a cynical tactic no team admits to but helps turn a profit without subjecting expensive equipment to the punishment of a long race. 
 For Baldwin, a racing lifer from Bellport, N.Y., whose father died in a 2004 crash at Thompson International Speedway in Connecticut, Nascar's economic distress offers an opportunity to become a player. And perhaps to pay his volunteer crew. 
 After two races, his team is 32nd in the standings and certainly more attractive to sponsors than it was two months ago when he was an unemployed crew chief with a vision.
 ''We're building a brand; we're a small team with low overhead and a big heart,'' Baldwin said, adding, ''You couldn't do this in any other sport.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A dozen underfinanced teams are scrambling to gain ground in the Sprint Cup series.
 The driver Jeremy Mayfield, left, preparing for laps at Auto Club Speedway, said, ''I couldn't have done this a year ago.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%)

PERSON: JEFF GORDON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (85%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1140 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: The Plug Is Pulled On a Sondheim Revue

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
An ambitious mixed-media project intended to pay tribute to Stephen Sondheim,and possibly to be staged on Broadway, has been canceled before its out-of-town tryout could be staged. The Alliance Theater of Atlanta said ''iSondheim: aMusical Revue'' had been canceled because of difficulties in raising money. The project was to have featured music written by Mr. Sondheim for shows including ''Gypsy,'' ''West Side Story'' and ''Sweeney Todd''; it was to have been directed by James Lapine, who collaborated with Mr. Sondheim on ''Into the Woods,'' ''Sunday in the Park With George'' and other shows. In a statement, the Frankel-Viertel-Baruch-Routh group of producers said, ''The show's extensive technical requirements for film and multimedia projection required raising what proved to be an extraordinarily large amount of additional money; millions, actually, which was simply unavailable for a noncommercial production in the current economic climate.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 4, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A report in the ''Arts, Briefly'' column on Saturday about the cancellation of a production of ''iSondheim: aMusical Revue'' planned for Atlanta misstated Stephen Sondheim's contributions to the shows ''Gypsy'' and ''West Side Story.'' He wrote the lyrics, not the music. (Jule Styne wrote the music for ''Gypsy,'' and Leonard Bernstein wrote it for ''West Side Story.'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (86%); THEATER (58%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (55%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%) GEORGIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1141 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; EAST SIDE JOURNAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: EAST SIDE JOURNAL Even in Tough Times, It Seems, a Person Needs Mascara

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
Below the well-connected crowds gossiping over salads at Barneys New York's top-level restaurant Fred's and the midtier floors full of wispy wives peering at price tags, there lives a well-scented community that has been relatively cushioned from the recession. 
 All it takes is 24 steps down to the subterranean makeup department to observe a bright beehive in one of the worst periods for retailers since the Depression. 
 Some credit the ''lipstick factor,'' the belief that women buy more lipstick in a recession. In fact, if the store's most recent semiannual ''bag event'' promotion is any indication, they are buying far more than lipstick. 
 While Rossana Jaquinto, senior manager of cosmetics, would not reveal specific numbers, she said the response to the event was strong. And even as the owners of Barneys have denied rumors that financial troubles may lead them to sell the company, most employees on the makeup floor have not had their hours cut. 
 The workers -- 75 fragrance and makeup salespeople behind 33 counters -- are a close-knit and seasoned bunch, clucking over customers like protective hens calming anxieties with moisturizers and mascara. And their customers are a varied lot, from the city's celebrities to the merely wealthy to the simply makeup-obsessed. 
 Because Barneys workers receive commissions even if they refer customers to other brands, they have been able to develop their own niches of expertise. Clients who want a fresh-faced look are sent to Jason Ascher, the floor's beauty guru, from Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Bridget Lembo, from Morris Park, in the Bronx, is known for painting smoky eyes. 
 And for advice on applying those $300 creams, Tony Reilly, a 12-year Barneys veteran from Sunset Park, Brooklyn, is the man to see.
 ''We're a little family,'' said Ms. Lembo, who has worked at the Nars makeup counter for three years. ''Everyone is willing to help each other out.''
 At the recent bag event, customers who spent $175 or more on makeup received a cosmetics bag filled with samples from 20 vendors, with treats like ''Lady Is a Tramp'' red nail polish and ''Rose Gitane'' lip gloss.
 Blair Hewes, a literary agent, snapped up a bag after spending about $200, buying a Diptyque firewood-scented candle for her boyfriend and a By Terry concealer and lip treatment for herself. Her friend also spent enough to receive a bag. Ms. Hewes, 23, said that even in a downturn, she would not cut certain purchases.
 ''There's sort of the makeup basics I will still get,'' she said.
 Caroline Ruggiero, a native of Rego Park, Queens, who has sold perfume for 32 years, repeats the advice her mother gave her from her time selling cosmetics during the Depression: Women will always spend on things like lipstick and perfume.
 And no recession can blunt the call of the city's mating rituals. While Ms. Lembo has no empirical evidence that makeup improves her clients' chances at love, she points to her record: Nearly all of the long-term clients she has helped through ''their breakups, their boyfriends'' in the past few years have gotten married. One is marrying in June.
 That is not to say that the recession is not felt at the Barneys makeup counters. 
 Shoppers note that the floor feels less packed with sharp-elbowed cosmetics lovers. Sales workers say that more customers acknowledge they have been laid off; they want to spend less and prefer more conservative colors. 
 Mr. Reilly finds that his customers are buying three creams rather than six. And in the lipstick and blush department, ''people want something more subtle,'' said Xiomara Ruperto of Middle Village, Queens, a counter manager for the Vincent Longo brand.
 Even if customers can resist the makeup, though, their pets may draw them in. Mr. Reilly says that while customers are spending less on face creams, they stop by with their dogs for the pet treats he offers. Among his regulars are Mr. Luke, the blond standard poodle; Foxy, the white dog rescued from a shelter; and Oliver, the sheepdog who lies down in front of Barneys until his owner takes him to Mr. Reilly for a biscuit.
 One bonus for the human regulars is the proximity to fame. Brian Bracero, who works at the By Terry counter, recalls the day last summer when he spotted one of his favorite singers, Diana Ross, at a nearby counter. ''She's the original diva,'' he said, ''all that hair and makeup.''
 Still, the staff is hearing about shoppers' tighter budgets more often. On a recent lunch break, Tina St. John perched on a wooden stool as Mr. Bracero quickly touched up her makeup. She did not attend the bag event because she did not want to spend $175. She did buy a blush and lip foundation for $102. 
 ''That's my limit,'' Ms. St. John said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brian Bracero, above, works in the makeup department at Barneys. Caroline Ruggiero, left, is a perfume saleswoman there. While gloom overshadows much of the retail sector, customers continue to spend on cosmetics, if perhaps more conservatively.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); COSMETICS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (76%); SALES FORCE (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); CELEBRITIES (70%); LITERARY AGENTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1142 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Yankees' Fan Plan Doesn't Sit Well

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Yankees will move into their $1.5 billion stadium in April with some fans angry at being assigned to seats far from where they sat in the old stadium and at losing the rights to buy tickets to the playoffs and the World Series.
 The aggrieved are mainly partial-season-ticket holders of 20-, 15-, 12- and 11-game plans, secondary in financial importance to those paying for 81 games, who were designated for the upper and outer reaches of the stadium. Their restiveness arises from a real estate problem: there are about 4,500 fewer seats at the new stadium, but the Yankees have already sold 23,517 full-season tickets, up 24 percent from 2008. 
 Those fans who have not been relocated according to their desires have two options: turn down the offers or enter a pool with other fans in the hope of staying in the stadium.
 The overall message some fans say they feel they received is simple: take it or leave it.
 ''I wish we could take care of everybody, I really do,'' said Lonn Trost, the Yankees' chief operating officer, who insisted that no mistakes were made in the moving process. And he attributed complaints to fans who did not heed the cautions written and mapped out in the team's 45-page relocation guide, not to any flaws in the relocation system. 
 ''If they had read it,'' he said, ''they couldn't possibly be asking these questions. They could be upset that they couldn't get what they wanted, but we laid it out in detail.''
 The guide does warn partial-season-ticket holders that their new seat locations ''will not likely be comparable to your current seat location'' in the old stadium, but injects some confusion by saying the team ''will consider your seating preferences.''
 Still, abiding by the relocation rules has been unsettling.
 Gerry Grossman, a salesman from Manhattan, said he and a friend were enraged at being offered a 20-game plan for two seats near the left-field foul pole for $85 each (without postseason-ticket rights) after being at field level, looking at left field, for $55 last year (with postseason), under a 46-game plan.
 ''We were crestfallen,'' he said. ''It felt like we'd been kicked out of the stadium.''
 He said the offer prompted him to write and call Yankee officials and scan posts from fans writing about the ticket relocation system on Web forums. 
 ''I stayed up until 2:30 in the morning looking for angles, and every once in a while reading about some illuminating interaction,'' he said. He said he received inadequate answers from Yankee ticket sales people about why two other fans, whom he said had lesser seniority, got a 41-game plan, or if seniority really mattered at all. On Thursday, his persistence was rewarded: he got a 41-game plan at $50 a ticket, on the second level, in a distant left-field burg, with postseason rights. 
 ''If I'd just sat back, I don't think I would have gotten that call,'' he said. ''I'm exhausted. They turned this into a job.''
 Steve Cohen of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., wanted a 15-game midweek plan (to replace a discontinued eight-game plan behind home plate), but was offered four tickets in a Friday night plan that he told the team conflicted with his weekend schedule. But he said he persevered and got four $20 tickets for 15 midweek games, high above right field. 
 Cohen said that the salesman said ''don't tell anybody'' about the switch.
 Eric Mendelson got a bargain he didn't want -- four $12 tickets in the 14th row of the bleachers in a 15-game plan, nothing close to the cozy $100 field-level seats on the third-base line that he has used mainly for business since 1993. He reluctantly said yes, even without playoff rights or tickets he once had to Old-Timers' Day and opening day.
 ''I've been in the shade, just under the overhang, and now I'm going to where the seats have no backs and everybody's drinking beer and cursing,'' he said. Mendelson, a commercial printer who grew up in the Bronx, first sat in the bleachers in 1965. 
 ''I'm near 50 and I don't want to go back,'' he said. ''I've earned my right out of them.'' He said he would give the tickets to business associates -- if they want to sit in uncovered heat -- and buy better seats on StubHub. 
 Although the demand for full and partial season tickets at the new stadium seems to contradict the expected impact of the dire recession, sales of the Yankees' premium seats, costing from $350 to $2,500 each, have needed a newspaper ad campaign and help from the residential real estate brokerage Prudential Douglas Elliman to perk up.
 ''The last two or three weeks, activity has been exciting,'' said Jim Ross, the team's senior vice president for business development. ''People recognize that opening day isn't far off and it's time to make decisions.'' The team hasn't offered discounts or additional amenities, but has extended the payment terms and made them available on partial plans.
 Ross wouldn't say how many more of the 4,300 premium seats remain unsold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); TICKET SALES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1143 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: News Editors Call Off Convention

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The American Society of Newspaper Editors canceled its annual convention on Friday in deference to the cost-cutting and turmoil in the industry, just days after the Magazine Publishers of America called off its annual conference for the same reasons. 
 ''Our members really need to be in their newsrooms, leading them through all the challenges they're facing,'' said Charlotte Hall, who is the president of the newspaper editors' group and the editor of The Orlando Sentinel. ''They also need to conserve their resources. I think travel expense is difficult for editors this year, for good reason.''
 She said registrations for the convention were lagging far behind previous years, making it clear that the four-day gathering -- scheduled for late April in Chicago -- would be sparsely attended.
 The industry is suffering from the combined forces of recession and the long-term challenge of the Internet. Indeed, the editors' group had been scheduled to vote on removing ''paper'' from its name and allowing Web-only news organizations to join. That vote will still take place -- electronically.
 The magazine conference, whose cancellation was announced on Monday, was to have been held in Boca Raton, Fla., in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (77%)

ORGANIZATION: MAGAZINE PUBLISHERS OF AMERICA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1144 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: All Around the World, Trade Is Shrinking

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
The world trading system, whose growth was deemed an inevitable part of globalization only a year ago, is now shrinking rapidly.
 Japan, a country built in large part on exports, reported this week that its exports in January were worth $47.2 billion, the lowest monthly total in more than four years and down 34 percent from the same month a year ago. 
 Even in the global recession of the 1970s, Japanese exports never dropped that fast.
 Most major European countries have not reported on January trade as yet, and the United States figures will not be out until March 13. But the rapid fall in trade has been experienced in virtually every country that has reported figures for January, as is shown in the accompanying graphs.
 A year ago, businesses in many developing countries were confident that they could ride out an American recession, if need be, without major problems. Not only were other industrialized countries still growing, but the volume of trade was growing between developing countries, and there seemed to be little reason that would suffer.
 Nonetheless, that is happening, perhaps because much of that trade was in items destined to be sent on to industrialized markets after further work. China's overall exports were down 17 percent in January compared with a year ago, even though exports to Japan and the United States were off by 10 percent or less. Shipments to other Asian countries were off by much more, including a drop of 29 percent in exports to South Korea.
 Chinese shipments to India were growing at an annual rate of more than 50 percent as recently as last summer. But in January, they declined by 18 percent.
 The 17 percent drop for overall Chinese exports, while large, is still modest compared with the declines being felt by other developing economies. The three largest economies in South America -- Argentina, Brazil and Chile -- reported declines of 27 to 42 percent. Exports from Taiwan were off 46 percent, and those from Singapore fell by 41 percent.
 The shrinkage of world trade may continue for some time, as recession-induced falls in demand are intensified by protectionist policies aimed at shoring up local industries. Developing countries without large foreign currency reserves may also be hurt by a drying up of credit to finance investment and trade.
 China is trying to offset the impact of the world recession with a broad stimulus program aimed at increasing local demand for products. But that option is not available for many countries, which do not have large foreign currency reserves and will take in less in taxes as unemployment rises amid factory layoffs. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Change in total exports: Year-over-year percentage change in U.S. dollar value
 Change in Chinese exports, by destination: Year-over-year percentage change in U.S. dollar value (Source: Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); RECESSION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (67%); LAYOFFS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1145 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 658 words

PERSON: SUSAN HARMSWORTH 

HEADLINE: Recession Hits Luxury Spa Business Across Countries

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
LIKE most other industries, the spa business is being affected by the downturn in the global economy. Susan Harmsworth, chief executive of Espa, a company based in Britain, reports that since October, 20 of her company's spa projects had been either postponed or canceled.
 On a recent visit to Manhattan, Ms. Harmsworth discussed the spa business and its prospects. 
 Q.How long have you been in the spa industry? 
 A. I've been in the spa business since 1970. I started a design consultancy to five-star hotels in 1988. I launched Espa, the brand, in 1993. 
 Q.How big is your operation?
 A. We're working in 55 countries, we have 45 projects under construction, we have about 20 gone on hold in this climate, we have about 70 spas we manage globally now, and we have about 200 spas that we supply products, treatments, training to.
 Our revenues are probably around $:20 million for the year ending April 1, 2009. That's product and services, fees for management, design and recruitment. This doesn't include revenue from each spa individually.
 Q.Which hotel brands do you work with and what is your business arrangement with them?
 A. We do all the One & Only hotels and all the Leela hotels in India. We do most Peninsulas, a lot of Ritz-Carltons, we work with Mandarin Oriental, Four Seasons, Bulgari. We have an operating contract for a period of usually about 15 years, and we get a base fee and a percentage on turnover and profit.
 Q.Why did you sell 40 percent of Espa to Istithmar World Capital, a private equity arm of Dubai World, last year?
 A. The spa industry isn't as profitable as people think, and to manufacture very high-quality products is also expensive. It's not like mass toiletries. So we built the infrastructure of our company and our team and our global presence very slowly and very solidly. When Istithmar approached us, we felt that the opportunity to maximize that a little bit quicker would make it much easier. 
 Q.How is the recession affecting Espa's business?
 A. We decided to go out and see all our clients, because our clients are huge international developers. We wanted to work out which sites were literally happening. The sites that were in planning that are on hold while they refinance are Kazakhstan, Costa Rica, Dubai, Macao, Las Vegas.
 The recession is the worst I've ever seen because it's so totally global. There's not a market that hasn't been affected. I don't have a client that's not affected. 
 Clever developers are doing the design phases of everything, of the whole resort, and then they're waiting because they think all bids from construction companies will go down. They may wait for another year or two. Projects have been canceled altogether because they can't be financed or the company's gone down. We have 10 projects that are on hold temporarily, there are probably 10 that have gone permanently, but then we gained others in December, in London, Marrakesh, Paris and another in Las Vegas. And 11 spas are opening in 2009. 
 Q.What are the trends now in the spa business?
 A. More people are going to spas in groups. There's an increase in male treatments, a lot of our city spas are 45 percent men. We're seeing the medi-spa. In the States, it does noninvasive procedures including fillers, microdermabrasion, Botox. We're seeing a big increase in spa cuisine. 
 Q.What treatment do you recommend for stressed-out Americans?
 A. What I recommend is they don't do this thing of running in for a 50-minute massage and then running out back to the office, which does them no good whatsoever. What we've found in the United States is that once somebody has felt the physiological advantage of using a steam room or heated jet pool, having a little sleep with an herbal tea, having a massage and having another little sleep, they just feel so totally different that they start then to think in a different way. You've got to try and slow people down and ground them. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUSAN HARMSWORTH (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESPA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); INDIA (78%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1146 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Even Worse For Young Workers

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The employment situation in the U.S. is, if anything, worse than most people realize. And huge numbers of young people, ages 16 to 30, are being beaten down in ways that could leave scars for a lifetime.
 Much of the attention in this economic downturn has focused on the growing legions of men and women who are officially counted as unemployed. There are now more than 11 million of them.
 But a better picture of the economic distress related to employment emerges when the number of jobless Americans is combined with two other categories of workers: the underemployed (those who are working part time, for example, because they can't find full-time work) and the so-called labor force reserve, workers who have abandoned their job searches but who would work if employment became available. 
 This total pool of underutilized labor has now risen above 24 million, according to researchers at the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston. That total will only grow in the coming months.
 The Obama administration has more than enough on its plate at the moment, but before long it will likely have to consider a range of additional strategies, beyond the recently passed stimulus package, for putting jobless Americans to work.
 A comparison of the number of people being thrown out of work in this recession with that of the severe recession of 1981-82 will indicate why. The peak unemployment rate was higher in that earlier recession than today's 7.6 percent, largely because the last big wave of the baby-boom generation was entering the job market in the early '80s. Those boomers who couldn't find work were officially counted as unemployed.
 What is different and more frightening about the current downturn is the number of people actually losing their jobs -- being laid off or fired. That number is dramatically, dangerously higher. 
 The government uses two different surveys to gauge employment data. The household survey, based on telephone interviews, showed that job losses in the 13 months that followed the beginning of the 1981-82 recession reached 1.53 million. In the first 13 months of this recession, the number of jobs lost, according to the household survey, has been a staggering 4 million.
 The payroll survey, which is based on employment records, showed job losses of 1.7 million in the first 13 months of the earlier downturn compared with 3.5 million in the current recession.
 Pick your poison. This is not the kind of downturn Americans are used to.
 The ones who are being hit the hardest and will have the most difficult time recovering are America's young workers. Nearly 2.2 million young people, ages 16 through 29, have already lost their jobs in this recession. This follows an already steep decline in employment opportunities for young workers over the past several years.
 Good jobs were hard to find for most categories of workers during that period. One of the results has been that older men and women have been taking and holding onto jobs that in prior eras would have gone to young people. 
 ''What we've seen over the past eight years, for young people under 30, is the largest age reversal with regard to jobs that we've ever had in our history,'' said Andrew Sum, the director of the Center for Labor Market Studies. ''The younger you are, the more you got pushed out of this labor market.''
 There were not enough jobs to go around before the recession took hold. So the young, the poor and the poorly educated were already suffering. Now that pool of suffering is rapidly expanding.
 This has ominous long-term implications for the country. The economy cannot perform well with such a large cohort of young people condemned to marginal economic status.
 Young men and women who remain unemployed for substantial periods of time find it very difficult to make up that ground. They lose the experience and training they would have gained by working. Even if they eventually find employment, they tend to lag behind their peers when it comes to wages, promotions and job security.
 Moreover, as the economy worsens, even the college educated are feeling the crunch.
 According to a report by researchers working with Mr. Sum: ''While young college graduates have fared the best in maintaining some type of employment, a growing fraction of them are becoming mal-employed, holding jobs in occupations that do not require much schooling beyond high school, often displacing their less-educated peers.''
 Employment problems have festered in the United States for decades. The economy will never be brought to a state of health until those problems are more thoughtfully and more directly engaged. This will become more and more clear with each passing month of this hideous recession. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); SALARY SURVEYS (61%); INTERVIEWS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1147 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
A DIFFERENT VIEW OF THE CITY
 To get to know New York, the photographer Stephanie de Rouge captured the entire length of Broadway in continuous, overlapping images. 
 nytimes.com/thecity 
 Bill Cunningham marvels at how people are wearing color on the streets of New York during Fashion Week, at art exhibits and on the way to work. He recommends adding color to your daily wardrobe as a pick-me-up if you're down about the economy. 
 nytimes.com/fashion
 Opinion
 THE OPINIONATOR Has Obamanomics Outdone Reaganomics?
 Does President Obama's budget mark a revolution, or is it just a bunch of fuzzy numbers?
 nytimes.com/opinionator
 PROOF
 A Perfect Pear
 The founder of a distillery in Oregon on how his life in local agriculture shaped his approach to making spirits.
 nytimes.com/proof
 SLIDESHOW: THE NEW SOUTH: PALMETTO, GA.
 An experiment in New Urbanism, the idyllic community of Serenbe aspires to be something of a Sonoma for the New South (though without the wine). 
 nytimes.com/travel
 AUDIO: HIP HOP'S ISLAND ROOTS
 Audio clips of U Roy ''toasting'' in 1975 and ''Wear You To The Ball'' (1969/70); Sir Lord Comic with ''The Great Wuga Wuga'' (1966-67); and Big Youth's ''Jim Squeechy'' (1973/74-75).
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 AUDIO: LOOKING TO THE HORIZON
 Members of U2 discuss the making of their new album, ''No Line on the Horizon.''
 nytimes.com/music
 INTERACTIVE: NEW YORK'S ATTORNEY
 As the Manhattan prosecutor, Robert M. Morgenthau presided over an office with almost 100,000 cases, 500 assistant district attorneys and some of the nation's highest-profile trials. A look back at the most significant cases he presided over during his 34 years in office. 
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 AUDIO: PATIENT MONEY COLUMN
 Ron Lieber, the Your Money columnist, and Tim Race, the business health care editor, discuss Patient Money, a column offering advice on handling the consumer pocketbook issues of health care. 
 nytimes.com/yourmoney

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On the Street: Bill Cunningham marvels at how people are wearing color on the streets of New York during Fashion Week, at art exhibits and on the way to work. He recommends adding color to your daily wardrobe as a pickme-up if you're down about the economy. nytimes.com/fashion (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Different View of the City: To get to know New York, the photographer Stephanie de Rouge captured the entire length of Broadway in continuous, overlapping images. nytimes.com/thecity (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DE ROUGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (72%); FASHION SHOWS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); RECORD RELEASES (67%); RAP MUSIC (67%); WRITERS (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1148 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: To Keep Students, Colleges Cut Anything but Aid

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
With the economy forcing budget cuts and layoffs in higher education, colleges and universities might be expected to be cutting financial aid. But no.
 Students considering a wide range of private schools, as well as those who are already enrolled, can expect to get more aid this year, not less. 
 The increases highlight the hand-to-mouth existence of many of the nation's smaller and less well-known institutions. With only tiny endowments, they need full enrollment to survive, and they are anxious to prevent top students from going elsewhere. 
 Falling even a few students short of expectations can mean laying off faculty, eliminating courses or shelving planned expansions. 
 ''The last thing colleges and universities are going to cut this year is financial aid,'' said Kathy Kurz, an enrollment consultant to colleges. ''Most of them recognize that their discount rates are going to go up, but they'd rather have a discounted person in the seat than no one in the seat.''
 So at Nichols College, a business-oriented school in Dudley, Mass., the president has asked staff members to teach classes normally handled by adjunct professors. The savings will allow the college to discount tuition for 20 prospective students and help 40 current students who could not afford to return. 
 Ithaca College, in upstate New York, is laying off faculty and cutting its 401(k) contributions as part of $4.2 million in budget cuts, but it is also offering increased tuition discounts that will make up the largest financial aid budget in its history. The college, which relies on tuition for more than 90 percent of its budget, saw the dangers of losing students last fall, when it had 240 fewer than anticipated, resulting in a $5 million decline in revenue. 
 ''The good news is that we haven't taken as much of a hit in our budget as some institutions that rely very heavily on their endowments,'' said Dave Maley, a spokesman for Ithaca, which has 6,000 undergraduate students. ''The alternative is, since we rely heavily on enrollment, any loss in student numbers hits us harder.''
 In a survey of 372 institutions in December, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities found that 93 percent said they were moderately or greatly concerned about preventing enrollment declines. Only 8 percent said they would cut financial aid, compared with 50 percent that said they had stopped hiring, 49 percent that had delayed construction or renovation and 22 percent that were freezing salaries. 
 It is a tricky balance. ''If they invest more dollars in financial aid, they may not end up with enough of an enrollment gain to offset the additional expense,'' said Nathan Mueller, an enrollment consultant. ''But if they don't do something, they can expect to see enrollment decline.''
 In some cases, colleges are increasing their aid budgets to cover current students who have found themselves unable to pay. But many are also increasing budgets for prospective students, anticipating that they will be needier as savings plans have suffered and home equity has declined. Northwestern University announced this week that it would require all departments to reduce their operating expenses by 5 percent, while financial aid is increased by 10 percent.
 While much of the assistance will go to the neediest students, institutions are also increasing merit aid.
 Albright College, in Reading, Pa., had been splitting its financial aid budget evenly between need-based aid and merit aid. But this year, it will tip the balance toward merit, with 60 percent. The college used to send offers of merit aid shortly after it mailed acceptance letters; this year, it sent them together in hopes of winning students over early. 
 Many colleges discount tuition an average of 30 to 40 percent. Still, by offering even a relatively small cut, colleges get students who pay a hefty price.
 ''The full-pays are few and far between,'' said Greg Eichhorn, the vice president for enrollment management at Albright. ''What we're looking for are better-pays.''
 Some schools have tried to reduce their merit-aid budgets over the last several years, arguing that an emphasis on need-based aid was more philosophically in line with their goals of getting a more diverse student body. But economic pressures may delay those aims. 
 At Dickinson College, in Carlisle, Pa., for example, merit aid, at its highest, made up about 22 percent of the financial-assistance pie. The share declined to 6 percent two years ago, but crept up to 7 percent last year and will increase to 8 percent for next year's entering class.
 ''The families I'm concerned about are the near-misses -- the $90,000 to $130,000 families, who almost qualify for aid but not quite,'' said Robert J. Massa, the college's vice president for enrollment. ''Those are the families I want to target more merit-based aid to.''
 The most selective colleges are also increasing or protecting financial aid: Cornell, Princeton and Vanderbilt, among others, have announced in recent weeks that they will continue plans to replace loans with grants, even as they suspend hiring searches and cut back on capital projects.
 But the issue is most pressing for the smallest and less-selective schools.
 ''Our biggest concern is losing students,'' said Tony Aretz, president of the College of Mount St. Joseph in Cincinnati. ''You have to cut your costs, and then you're in a death spiral -- students don't want to come to you because they sense you're on the rocks.''
 Dr. Aretz, like many presidents of colleges in the Midwest, sees public universities as his main competition. They have attracted a larger share of more affluent students in recent years. But with states cutting their budgets and public universities raising tuition, the private institutions also see an opportunity to win over parents now feeling economic pressure.
 Some pitches are more direct than others. California Lutheran University in Thousand Oaks is advertising a public school price tag to any student accepted at the University of California, Santa Barbara, or at the University of California, Los Angeles -- an average annual saving of $16,000 off the normal cost of $41,767.
 Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga., is offering $64,200 in merit aid over four years for anyone who is eligible to receive the state's HOPE scholarships, which were developed to attract stellar but not necessarily needy students to state colleges and universities. The discount will cut the cost of attending the private college in half. (To pay for the increase in aid, no cut is too small: the college even replaced its traditional holiday greeting card with an e-card.)
 The colleges are also trying to hold down tuition increases. But increases in financial aid are not without consequence. At Ithaca, officials project that tuition discounts will result in a net revenue decline of $2.66 million and force the college to carry a $2.5 million deficit, its first since the 1950s.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zulaikatu Mustapha, a freshman at Ithaca College, which says it needs full enrollment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Ithaca College has had to cut its budget by $4.2 million, but its financial aid budget this year is the largest in the college's history.
 Dave Maley, a spokesman for Ithaca College in upstate New York, says the institution, with its 6,000 students, relies more on tuition for its survival than it relies on endowment money.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); US 401K PLANS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1149 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: A Textile Capital of China Is Hobbled by a Downturn Gone Global

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Xie Qing contributed research in Shanghai.

DATELINE: SHAOXING, China 

 BODY:
This was a city that globalization built.
 Not long ago, 20,000 textile and garment factories were bustling here, crowded with workers knitting and sewing for six, and sometimes seven, days a week to produce the wares sold at big American retailers like Gap and Wal-Mart. 
 Now, demand is waning in the United States, and Shaoxing, a coastal city that is one of the world's biggest textile centers, has fallen victim to the global downturn.
 Factories here are closing. Some bosses have fled town, leaving thousands of workers in the lurch. And other owners are worried about mounting debts and the prospect of bankruptcy.
 Qian Jin, an industry expert, says Chinese textile companies are suddenly in a ''struggle for survival.'' A warning from Beijing last December was dire, too: As many as two-thirds of the country's textile and apparel companies could go broke. 
 ''We've seen our orders cut by a third over the past few months,'' says Yang Baolin, president of the Siris Knitting Company, which operates a factory in Shaoxing with about 1,800 employees. ''All the exporters are failing.''
 And the problems in the textile industry are just the start. China's once roaring economy is witnessing its sharpest slowdown in three decades. As many as 20 million migrant workers are already believed to be out of work. And with demonstrations over factory closings erupting in a string of coastal cities, Beijing has grown increasingly concerned about social and political unrest. 
 The government has already announced a $586 billion economic stimulus package to help keep factories operating. Some state-owned companies are being ordered not to lay off workers. Automakers, ship builders and electronics manufacturers have been designated for government bailouts. 
 But few sectors are as crucial to China's economy as the $450 billion textile and apparel industry -- proof of China's global trading prowess and a symbol of its development model, which is based on low-cost exports.
 Last year, the industry accounted for $153 billion of China's $300 billion trade surplus, far more than any other industry. And today, textile and garment makers employ more than 20 million workers, mostly migrant laborers from the country's poorest provinces.
 For those reasons, Beijing has been paying attention to the industry's travails.
 ''This industry absorbs a lot of employment. And this is important for social stability,'' says Sun Ruizhe, vice president of the China National Textile and Apparel Council. 
 Experts say that what happens in cities like Shaoxing could be a barometer of China's trading might, and a window into its social conditions.
 Shaoxing (pronounced SHAOW-shing), about 100 miles southwest of Shanghai, took off in the 1980s, as its rice paddies were turned into small businesses producing chemical fibers like nylon and dyeing fabrics for big-name retailers. 
 Before long, hundreds and then thousands of textile factories came to life. The city's population grew to four million as hundreds of thousands of migrant laborers from China's inland provinces gravitated here to live in company dormitories and toil long hours.
 Today, no city in China has as large a concentration of textile and garment producers, industry officials say. Sales from the city's huge textile bazaar, a sprawling mall that attracts 100,000 visitors a day, topped $9 billion last year, according to the local government.
 With the boom came new roads, BMW and Lexus dealerships, lakeside villas and luxury residences, with names like ''Global New York,'' ''Victoria Gardens'' and ''Money King Tower.''
 ''This city has too many millionaires,'' says Zhang Guowei, the 37-year-old general manager of Tiansheng Holdings, one of Shaoxing's biggest wool producers.
 Mr. Zhang's experience is a typical rags-to-riches tale from Shaoxing. Twenty years ago, he was a mechanic, earning about $4 a month. Now, he drives a Mercedes, talks about sending his daughter abroad for college and boasts about the tremendous growth of a factory complex here that has 3,000 employees, a worker dormitory, a movie theater and outdoor tennis and basketball courts. 
 Tiansheng imports wool from New Zealand, spins it into thread, washes it, dyes it and cuts it into pieces that are eventually used to make coats, pants and other clothing. The company's workers earn about $1 an hour or less. 
 Even Mr. Zhang said he was hurting, though he expected that his business would survive with help from the government.
 As early as 2007, rising oil prices began to drive up the cost of the chemical fibers that are used to make nylon clothing.
 Rising coal prices made operating a factory more expensive. And when China's currency, the yuan or renminbi, appreciated sharply against the dollar in early 2008, factories complained about being paid for exports in a sharply weakening currency.
 To add to the problems, a new labor law and fierce competition for young migrant workers pushed up wages by more then 30 percent in the last two years.
 Even more, fabric and textile buyers from America and Europe have come to expect cheaper prices, every year.
 ''They set a cheaper price and say 'Take it or leave it,' '' said Yang Lairong, general manager of the Jinchan Home Textile and Garment Company, which produces curtains and other home textiles for Wal-Mart and J. C. Penney. ''We're really being squeezed.''
 Worried about the factory downturn, Beijing has responded with a series of measures aimed at supporting textile producers -- tax credits and rebates, forcing state-owned banks to approve low-interest loans to factory owners and reducing water fees, among others.
 Last October, Beijing even dispatched one of its top officials to Shaoxing to urge local leaders to meet the downturn head on.
 ''We should bravely confront today's difficulties,'' Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said in a speech then, during a tour of the city's textile factories.
 But since then, things have only grown bleaker. The head of the Jianglong Group, one of Shaoxing's biggest dye factories, ran off in November, leaving behind 4,000 workers and more than $200 million in debts.
 Creditors pleaded with the government for help, and workers have demonstrated.
 Some industry officials say China's textile industry will continue to thrive, particularly because of cities like Shaoxing -- so-called textile cluster cities that dominate a particular end of the business by specializing and competing fiercely on price.
 ''We are confident China still has the advantage,'' says Mr. Qian, the industry expert in Beijing. ''We have specialty towns for shoes, socks and other items. Shaoxing is chemical fiber cloth, also dyeing. Southeast Asian countries don't have a complete integrated chain, so they can't compete with us.''
 But many experts forecast that thousands of factories could close in the downturn, walloping a city that has grown accustomed to boom times.
 Shen Ye, the owner of the Jinyu Textile Import and Export Company, whose orders are down as much as 80 percent, said some struggling factories were desperate but were afraid to seek bankruptcy. ''If a factory files for bankruptcy, it has to pay back taxes to the government, salaries to the employees or money owed to the bank,'' he said. ''What's left goes to private lenders. How much can be left? None! In order not to be beaten to death, they have to run.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker at the Tiansheng factory in Shaoxing, China, a city where 20,000 textile and garment factories once hummed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (93%); TEXTILE MFG (91%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); SYNTHETIC FIBERS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); CLOSINGS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); ELECTRONICS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (63%)

COMPANY: SIRIS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1150 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Paying Top Dollar, the Redskins Sign Haynesworth

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
Remember when the Washington Redskins gave fiscal and free-agent restraint a try? Apparently, that model for franchise building was so last year, and last year was not a particularly good one for the Redskins. So early Friday morning, the Redskins' owner, Daniel Snyder, reverted to form, doing a cannonball into the free-agency pool by signing defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth, the top prize of the free agents, to a seven-year contract worth a potential $100 million. The deal is expected to pay Haynesworth $32 million in the first 13 months. 
 The Redskins scooped up the 27-year-old Haynesworth, who spent his first seven seasons with Tennessee, only hours after free agency opened Friday. His signing came not long after Washington signed cornerback DeAngelo Hall to another lavish deal, a six-year contract that includes $22.5 million guaranteed. Hall joined the Redskins in the middle of the 2008 season and boosted their struggling defense. 
 For a league that says it has been affected by the recession, the Redskins' spree was jarring. The team recently laid off dozens of lower-level staff members, but Snyder has a history of making big-name acquisitions and sometimes overpaying for them. 
 When asked whom he had meshed with on the Redskins, Haynesworth replied, ''Obviously, Dan Snyder.'' 
 Snyder broke the bank for Haynesworth, the most dominant defensive tackle in the league and widely considered the best free agent available, but one who has not played a full season since his rookie year because of injuries (he had a knee sprain in 2008) and who has a reputation for occasionally taking plays off. Still, Haynesworth had 8 1/2 sacks in 14 games last season -- a huge output for a tackle -- and he immediately improves the Redskins' woeful pass rush.
 The Titans had hoped to re-sign Haynesworth, but he drew interest from a number of teams, including the Giants and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Haynesworth said Friday that he was shocked by the Bucs' bloodletting of veterans earlier this week and that he did not want to go to a rebuilding team. The Redskins outbid Tampa Bay anyway. 
 Even with $60 million in cap space, the Bucs did not sign a big name Friday, but they did acquire tight end Kellen Winslow from Cleveland in a trade for undisclosed draft picks. Winslow was the Browns' first-round draft pick -- the sixth over all -- in 2004, but Eric Mangini, Cleveland's new coach, is cleaning house and chose to get rid of one of the Browns' most talented but problematic players.
 Winslow clashed with Browns management last season after contracting a staph infection, and he has been injured frequently. Winslow, a Pro Bowl selection after the 2007 season, will provide the Bucs with a dynamic pass-catcher for an offense that needs lots of weapons, including a quarterback.
 The Minnesota Vikings might have finally solved their quarterback problem, or at least increased the competition for the job, when they completed a trade with the Texans for Sage Rosenfels, who had backed up Matt Schaub in Houston. The Vikings, who gave up a fourth-round pick, wanted Rosenfels last year, too. When they could not complete a deal, they brought in Gus Frerotte, who briefly flourished after replacing Tarvaris Jackson, who was benched early last season.
 Rosenfels, who started five games for Houston last season, will compete with Jackson, who showed promise but played poorly in a playoff loss to the Eagles. Frerotte was cut a few hours after Rosenfels was acquired. 
 In one of the most surprising moves of the day, the New England Patriots traded linebacker Mike Vrabel to the Kansas City Chiefs for an undisclosed draft pick. The Chiefs' new general manager is Scott Pioli, who left the Patriots to take over the Chiefs, and he surely knew the locker-room value a veteran like Vrabel could bring to a young team like the Chiefs. 
 The Patriots, who have little room under the salary cap, signed the veteran running back Fred Taylor, who spent his first 11 seasons in Jacksonville. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Patriots signed Fred Taylor, left, on the first day of free agency. The Redskins added defensive tackle Albert Haynesworth.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM GREENWOOD/GETTY IMAGES
 DUANE BURLESON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); SPORTS INJURIES (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); AWARDS & PRIZES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON REDSKINS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (85%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (66%) FLORIDA, USA (85%); TENNESSEE, USA (76%); OHIO, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2009



1151 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: A Bright Spot in Newspaper Advertising

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
Terry Widener has been selling newspaper ads for 35 years. But until last fall, Ms. Widener, a 53-year-old saleswoman at The Knoxville News Sentinel in Knoxville, Tenn., had never sold an Internet ad. 
 Then in a two-week sales ''blitz'' intended to test an innovative partnership between newspapers and Yahoo, she persuaded advertisers to buy $200,000 in online ads that ran on the paper's Web site and on Yahoo. That represented about a seventh of the amount she typically sells in an entire year. 
 ''I'm pretty much from the old school,'' Ms. Widener said. ''It was such a learning experience. Hopefully I am going to sell more and more online.'' 
 Many newspaper owners and publishers have similar hopes. They say that the partnership with Yahoo is one of the only bright spots in an otherwise horrible advertising market.
 Through the partnership, ad salespeople at newspapers pitch local businesses on advertising packages that let them reach visitors to the newspapers' Web sites and Yahoo users in the area. The newspapers also use Yahoo technology that lets them charge more for ads on their sites.
 A similar sales blitz at The Ventura County Star, a small daily north of Los Angeles, netted nearly $1 million in sales in the run-up to Christmas, or roughly 40 percent of what the paper sold in online ads in 2008. The Naples Daily News in Florida did even better: The late-January blitz generated $2 million in sales, or more than half what the paper sold online in 2008. Some larger newspapers have had similar successes. 
 ''If we could do just shy of $1 million in two weeks in a horrible economy, what does it mean for us when the economy turns?'' asked George H. Cogswell III, publisher of The Ventura County Star. 
 Yahoo, which has been struggling with internal turmoil and slowing growth, is also hailing its alliance with the newspaper consortium as one of its most important efforts. The consortium has grown to nearly 800 dailies, up from 176 in 2006.
 ''It seems to be hitting the sweet spot for both newspapers and Yahoo,'' said Lem Lloyd, a Yahoo vice president for the partnership. 
 No one expects that the partnership will make up for what's ailing Yahoo or the newspaper industry any time soon. Consider that on Friday E. W. Scripps, the owner of the Knoxville, Ventura and Naples newspapers, closed The Rocky Mountain News, one of its flagship properties. The San Francisco Chronicle, one of the first papers to make use of all parts of the Yahoo alliance, is being threatened with closure by its owner, the Hearst Corporation. 
 Yahoo's bet on the newspaper consortium will not give a meaningful lift to its finances this year or tilt the balance in its fight with Google, which dominates the online ad business.
 ''In 2009, this partnership is not material,'' said Hilary Schneider, executive vice president for North America at Yahoo, who is one of the driving forces behind the alliance. ''If you look at the long-term opportunity, it is material, and it continues to exceed our expectations.'' 
 The partnership began in 2006 and was initially focused on sharing employment classifieds. But over the last year, about half of the newspapers in the alliance, including some smaller newspapers owned by The New York Times Company, have agreed to begin testing two new elements of the relationship. 
 One is a new ad system from Yahoo, currently installed at about 100 newspapers, that allows them to sell graphical ads on their sites that are aimed at specific audiences, like car buyers or sports enthusiasts. The system puts users into those groups based on the pages they visit online, a technique known as behavioral targeting. 
 This allows publishers to sell, say, high-priced travel ads not only on travel pages but also on any page visited by a user interested in travel. An advertiser may have paid 50 cents to reach every thousand visitors to a high school sports page, for example, said Leon Levitt, vice president for digital at Cox Newspapers. ''Now it doesn't matter where the page is on the site,'' Mr. Levitt said. ''All of a sudden we can sell that page for $15'' for every 1,000 visitors who are interested in travel, he said. 
 The other new element of the partnership allows newspapers to sell ads on Yahoo pages, with the two sides sharing the resulting revenue. That lets newspapers promise advertisers that their messages will reach a larger portion of the local audience, helping the newspapers compete more effectively with television. 
 Between its print and online editions, The Ventura County Star, for example, reached about 56 percent of its local audience. With the addition of the Yahoo pages, it now reaches 85 percent of Ventura residents, and it can also tell advertisers that they can reach Yahoo's audience in the larger Los Angeles market. 
 ''It is certainly a new opportunity,'' Mr. Cogswell said. 
 Yahoo benefits too, by being able to tap into some 7,500 sales people at newspapers across the country. The additional ads translate into higher rates for pages that typically command low ad prices, like those on Yahoo's mail service, Mr. Lloyd said.
 Some newspaper executives have been worried that a management shake-up at Yahoo could put the partnership at risk. Ms. Schneider said Carol Bartz, Yahoo's new chief executive, is squarely behind the alliance. ''Carol looks at this partnership as core to Yahoo's future,'' Ms. Schneider said. 
 Ken Doctor, a newspaper industry analyst with Outsell, said losing Yahoo's support would be a blow to newspapers. ''For the companies that are in it, this is the No. 1 growth initiative in 2009 and 2010,'' Mr. Doctor said. 
 For now, however, that growth provides only a small dose of relief for an ailing industry.
 ''It's a new source of revenue that we think is going to be a growing source of revenue,'' said William Dean Singleton, the chief executive of the MediaNews Group, which owns 54 dailies and is one of the original members of the consortium. ''It is still small compared to the recessionary print declines we are seeing.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hilary Schneider and Lem Lloyd of Yahoo, which has formed an alliance with newspapers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA BRANDI LIFLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (91%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (91%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); WEB SITES (76%); CLOSINGS (74%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); HEARST CORP (84%); KNOXVILLE NEWS-SENTINEL CO (58%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NAPLES, FL, USA (69%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1152 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Saudi Prince Is Humbled By Citigroup

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr. and ERIC DASH

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The bad news arrived by telephone early this week at the Saudi headquarters of Prince Walid bin Talal. 
 Citigroup, the investment that had transformed Prince Walid from an obscure Arabian royal into the Warren E. Buffett of the Middle East, was spiraling down around him.
 And now, on the line from New York, was Citigroup's chief executive, calling personally to tell the prince that the United States government would substantially increase its stake in the troubled financial company -- a step that would cost the prince dearly. 
 As it did Friday. The stunning collapse of Citigroup's share price, to a mere $1.50 on Friday from a record $55 in 2006, has hurt investors worldwide. But few reputations have suffered as severe a blow as that of Prince Walid, who owns about 4 percent of the company.
 In its third attempt to stabilize Citigroup, the government announced Friday that it would increase its ownership stake to as much as 36 percent by converting part of its large preferred investment stake to common stock, Other preferred stockholders could own a 38 percent stake of the bank if they all convert their shares. That would dilute existing common shareholders, who together would now own just 26 percent of the bank. 
 Those investors include Prince Walid, who injected close to $600 million into Citigroup's predecessor, Citibank, when it was foundering in 1991. At the time, the price of $10 -- $2.98, adjusted for stock splits -- seemed a bargain. 
 But Prince Walid and several other investors from the Middle East and Asia, including the Abu Dhabi investment fund, are now suffering the public embarrassment of seeing their investments in Citigroup evaporate. With their ties to the royal families of their respective countries -- Prince Walid is the grandson of Saudi Arabia's founding king, Abdul-Aziz Ibn Saud, and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority invests the surplus cash of Abu Dhabi's kingdom -- these two investors are among the world's most influential. 
 Now they must decide whether to lose their preferred investor status and join the investor rank and file as common equity holders alongside the United States government. 
 Prince Walid, like other large holders of preferred shares like the government of Singapore, has said he will exchange his preferred stock for common shares. But the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority has not agreed to the deal and is looking to solicit a legal opinion to assess its options, people briefed on the fund's thinking said. 
 A spokesman for the fund declined to comment.
 That the investment authority finds itself in such a position is not without irony. When Abu Dhabi invested in Citigroup, an uproar was raised that this stake represented the first stage of a creeping influence by government-owned investment funds over American financial companies. Now, it is the United States government that is, in effect, taking over, leaving Abu Dhabi and other foreign investors in a lurch.
 Indeed, if the Abu Dhabi fund were to convert its shares, it would forgo the 11 percent interest it is now paid quarterly and lose dependable cash flow at a time -- with oil prices low and its neighboring emirate Dubai in a dire economic condition -- when the demands for capital at home have never been higher.
 For Prince Walid, the developments at Citigroup are a stinging embarrassment. In November, he made a public splash by increasing his Citigroup stake, thus becoming its largest shareholder when the government carried out its second financial rescue.
 Asked in an interview on CNBC if he could foresee Citigroup requiring additional government money, and if he would invest again, the prince responded with his typical flair.
 ''I believe this is a very far- fetched situation,'' he said, saying that in his many conversations with ''Mr. Vikram,'' as he called Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, he had been assured that the bank would have enough capital for the next 12 to 18 months. ''This is cherry on the cream and we will take it.''
 Prince Walid could not be reached for additional comment.
 As befitting his status as a Citibank savior, the prince has received special investor care. For many top Citigroup executives, a ritual pilgrimage to see him was expected. Sanford I. Weill, who created today's fallen colossus, was a frequent visitor to the prince's tent in the desert. His successor, Charles O. Prince III, as well as his recently departed chairman, Robert E. Rubin, also met with the prince frequently. 
 Early this week, Mr. Pandit phoned Prince Walid to propose that he convert his preferred stock -- which would no longer pay a dividend -- to common. After speaking for a few minutes, the two put their top lieutenants on to discuss the confidential details, people close to the situation said. 
 From Citigroup's Park Avenue offices, Gary L. Crittenden, the chief financial officer, reviewed the transaction for about 20 minutes with the prince's head of business affairs. With Citigroup's preferred stock trading at around 20 to 30 cents on the dollar, the bank held out the carrot that investors might be able to convert it at a premium to its current market price. 
 Soon thereafter, Citigroup received word that the prince would go along. 
 For the prince, whose net worth was most recently estimated by Forbes at $21 billion, the new government action is just his latest investment setback. 
 Early this year, his company, Kingdom Holdings, reported a $7.9 billion loss as some of his biggest portfolio investments, like the News Corporation, Time Warner and Songbird Estates, which manages the Canary Wharf office development in London, have plummeted.
 He has suffered further indignity at home, where the share price of Kingdom has lost more than half its value since the company went public on the Saudi stock exchange in July 2007.
 The Abu Dhabi authority, like all global investors, has also been hit by the world economic downturn, as well as lower oil prices -- and it has tended to have a much larger position in equities, especially those in emerging markets, than other funds. 
 Brad W. Setser, an analyst at the Council of Foreign Relations, estimates that the Abu Dhabi fund lost more than 30 percent last year, bringing its size down to about $300 billion from a peak of $480 billion -- a figure that is much lower than some of the larger public estimates and one that executives within the authority acknowledge is closer to the truth. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: For years, Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia was hailed as a financial wizard as a result of his investment in Citigroup.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS MORI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (72%); STOCK SPLITS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (91%); WARREN BUFFETT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1153 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Military Contractors Nervously Await Budget Details

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
The good news for big military contractors from President Obama's budget this week was his proposal to increase the basic Pentagon budget by 4 percent, to $534 billion. 
 But now the companies are contending with a new question: what will the priorities of the new administration -- which has made clear it wants to shift spending from futuristic weapons systems to simpler arms that troops can use now -- mean for the industry? 
 The big contractors ''are sitting on the edge of their seats,'' said Gordon Adams, a professor at American University in Washington and an expert on the defense budget. 
 The defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, said this week that he would probably not decide the fate of some marquee weapons systems -- including the Air Force's supersonic F-22 jet fighter and the Navy's plans for a new high-tech destroyer -- until April. 
 In an effort to blunt some of the inevitable lobbying, he has taken the extraordinary step of requiring members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to sign documents promising not to leak any details of the deliberations. 
 In addition to the basic budget, the Obama administration expects to spend at least $130 billion to cover the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, bringing the total defense budget to $664 billion in fiscal 2010, which begins Oct. 1. 
 That is slightly higher than the $654 billion the government has set aside in the current fiscal year -- the most it has spent, in inflation-adjusted terms, since World War II. 
 Some military executives acknowledge that the spending proposal for next year remains generous given the government's spiraling budget deficits. 
 ''It's a good number in this economic climate,'' said Kendell Pease, a spokesman for General Dynamics, the giant military contractor. 
 But, he said, ''There are so many contentious issues to decide, and nobody is going to do anything in Congress until they see the line-item decisions.''
 Investors also seem unnerved by the uncertainty; the stocks of the leading military companies fell even harder than the general market averages Friday.
 Investors were also concerned that with the plans to gradually withdraw forces from Iraq, the level of supplemental war funding will drop sharply in the future.
 Ronald Epstein, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, said in a research note that this could end up ''marking the end of the defense spending boom.''
 But other analysts said some of the savings in Iraq could be offset by greater spending in Afghanistan. James McAleese, whose company, McAleese & Associates, advises military firms on legal and business issues, said Mr. Obama's proposed budget could also increase next year's spending on weapons acquisitions and research by $6 billion.
 But the military contracting industry is consumed now with the parlor game of guessing which prominent programs Mr. Gates will cut back or scrap as either ''gold-plated'' or troubled -- and whether industry lobbyists will be able to persuade Congress to overturn some of those decisions. 
 Perhaps the most controversial program is Lockheed Martin's advanced jet fighter, the F-22, which the Bush administration tried for years to halt, saying it was a cold war relic. Many analysts say they believe that a compromise to produce 60 more of the planes, at a cost of $9 billion to $11 billion, is likely, especially if the Air Force agrees to finance part of the cost by canceling other programs.
 But others say President Obama's statement this week that ''we're not paying for cold war-era weapons we don't use'' did not bode well for the F-22.
 Other cuts seem clearer. During his campaign, Mr. Obama raised questions about the $10 billion missile defense programs -- with parts led by Northrop Grumman and Boeing seeming most at risk -- and the Army's $160 billion modernization program, also led by Boeing. 
 Given Mr. Gates's focus on systems that can help save lives, the Army should be able to hold onto its financing for a network of robots and other sensors to provide troops with better combat intelligence, Mr. McAleese said. But the Army might have to revise its plans for eight types of new ground vehicles.
 Analysts say another likely target is the new DDG-1000 destroyer, which relies on sophisticated electronics systems from Raytheon. Even the Navy would like to drop the ship in favor of building more vessels of an earlier class.
 Mr. Obama also said recently that he did not need a costly and long-delayed new fleet of presidential helicopters. 
 But because of cancellation fees and contractual obligations, it may make more sense to take possession of at least the first five, said Danielle Brian, executive director of the Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit group that investigates government waste.
 ''We understand that the cost of canceling them could be too high,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The defense secretary said that he would probably not decide the fate of some weapons, including the F-22 jet, until April (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFTERIS PITARAKIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (92%); BUDGETS (92%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); LOBBYING (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%)

COMPANY: GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (53%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%); US NAVY (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%)

TICKER: GD (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1154 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Open Arms To Budget, With Caveats

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For years, Congressional Democrats tried to avoid anything that would let Republicans slap the tax-and-spend label on them. But on Friday, they cautiously embraced President Obama's budget, with its ambitious blend of new spending and tax increases, calculating that they could turn the old attack line to their benefit. 
 As they began to digest the administration's fiscal blueprint, even Democrats with reservations hailed it as a long-overdue example of honesty in federal budgeting after years of what Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, called ''fudgeting.'' 
 Several said they saw the tax increases as reasonable ones that could be sold to the public in difficult economic times, especially since middle-class taxes would be cut under the president's plan.
 ''The American people have been denied the truth for many years,'' said Representative Jim Cooper, a Tennessee Democrat who has long warned of the dangers of rising deficits. ''They are willing to take their medicine if it leads to a strong country.''
 Yet even as Democrats praised what they described as the bold, broad strokes of the spending plan, fault lines began to show on important provisions regarding taxes, agriculture, energy and education, making it clear some elements would be revised or jettisoned as the proposal makes its way through Congress over the next two months. 
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Budget Committee, said Mr. Obama's call to raise federal dollars by limiting income tax deductions for families earning above $250,000 might have to be rethought. ''That may be a bridge too far,'' Mr. Conrad said. 
 Other lawmakers and some advocacy groups warned that the limits could cut donations to already struggling charities by reducing the value of deductions for contributions from donors in the upper tax brackets. 
 While most Americans would get a slight tax cut under Mr. Obama's plan, the budget would also allow Bush-era tax breaks for the wealthy to expire. Some Democrats said they were uneasy about that as the country struggled to end a recession. 
 ''I am certain that it is going to be very difficult and doesn't work to be raising taxes in a time when we are experiencing major adjustments in our economy,'' Senator Nelson said.
 Administration officials emphasized their push to halve the deficit in Mr. Obama's first term and noted that the central tax increases would not take effect for two years, when a rebound of the economy is expected to be under way. Some Democrats said that seemed acceptable when balanced against the tax cuts for the middle class.
 ''The increases in most cases, as I see it, restore the tax burden that existed in 2000,'' said Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota. ''And it seems a perfectly reasonable thing to do.'' 
 Representative Steve Cohen, another Tennessee Democrat, said: ''People want to see equity and fairness. You have to have some taxes to balance the budget. You can't have all the services that are required -- defense, energy, education, health care -- and not have taxes.''
 Leaders of the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of House Democrats who push against deficit spending, called the budget ''a good starting point'' and indicated they would argue for deficit reduction, a position shared by Mr. Conrad.
 ''Cutting the deficit in half in the first five years is the right order of magnitude,'' Mr. Conrad said. ''The investments in reducing our dependence on foreign energy, excellence in education and health care reform are right on target in terms of priorities.'' 
 But while there was general support among Democrats for the broad outlines, specific provisions are already dividing the party, in some cases exposing longstanding policy rifts that tend to cut along geographic rather than party lines. 
 Mr. Conrad said he was troubled by a proposal that would eliminate so-called direct payment farm subsidies for producers with more than $250,000 in revenues. (A threshold of $500,000 in revenues, widely reported earlier, was an incorrect figure given in the printed version of the president's budget summary.) The current cap on eligibility is $750,000 in farm income; Mr. Obama's plan could end subsidies for farmers who have high revenues but no income after expenses. 
 But Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa and chairman of the Agriculture Committee, said he was pleased that Mr. Obama was moving to curtail a subsidy program Mr. Harkin had long opposed. ''I have never been a fan of direct payments,'' the senator said. 
 To some, the debate was reminiscent of 1993, when President Bill Clinton narrowly forced through a five-year economic plan that raised taxes, limited military spending and funneled money to favored Democratic initiatives. 
 Republicans stood united in their opposition and ended up wresting control of Congress from the Democrats in 1994.
 But Democrats and others say the comparison is flawed because there was no economic crisis when Mr. Clinton increased gas taxes and raised income tax rates on affluent Americans. In addition, Congressional Democrats were unraveling in 1993, while in the November election, the party increased its majority in both chambers.
 Republicans, while raising objections to the budget plan, did credit the White House for a bold proposal that laid down a clear ideological marker. ''They are really swinging for the fences,'' said Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota.
 Mr. Cooper said the budget was a provocative plan that could spur needed debate in Congress about just what the government pays for and how it pays for it. ''We have an opportunity to find federal programs that are wasteful and eliminate them,'' he said. ''I am ready to do that in programs big and small.'' 
 Representative Charlie Melancon, a Blue Dog Democrat from south Louisiana, said he had already begun explaining to wealthy constituents that the looming tax increases represented a rebalancing after President George W. Bush's tax cuts. 
 ''Why do they want to tax the rich?'' he said, quoting some of his well-off constituents who benefited from the Bush tax cuts. ''I said because they gave you all your money back for a couple of years.'' 
 Mr. Melancon said he believed that honest budgeting would eventually lead to fiscal responsibility. ''It's not going to be a fun period in my life nor anyone else that's in the Congress,'' he said. ''But we must do these things to reform the spending habits of the federal government.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Jim Cooper, Democrat of Tennessee, said the public would support tax increases if they led to ''a strong country.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INCOME TAX (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JIM COOPER (73%); KENT CONRAD (58%); BYRON DORGAN (58%); BEN NELSON (58%); BILL NELSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1155 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: 'Great Society' Plan for the Middle Class

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
Opponents of President Obama's proposal for a sweeping new government activism in the economy call it a return to a traditional tax-and-spend philosophy, a step back to the era of Lyndon B. Johnson. 
 It may also be a postmodern, post-Clinton form of liberalism.
 Unlike the sweeping social programs of the 1960s, the Obama plan, with its talk of ''green jobs'' and energy efficiency savings, seems aimed more at a middle class that missed out on the boom than at the nation's poorest, who would benefit to a significantly lesser extent. To be sure, there are some elements of Mr. Obama's $3.6 trillion budget that are aimed at aiding the nation's poorest -- for example, turning Pell Grants for college into what amounts to a new entitlement program -- but in his sales pitch, that has hardly been one of its biggest selling points. 
 Instead, the budget is advertised as a way of addressing the three issues that Mr. Obama talked about most often in his campaign: a far larger federal role in education, in providing near-universal health care and in energy policy. Its most expensive new provisions, like the $630 billion placed in reserve for the creation of a national health care fund and $250 billion set aside to bail out failing banks and fragile industries, are aimed a middle-class American workers who face the double threat of losing their jobs and their health insurance at one time. 
 And for the first time, an American president has moved to tax industries whose emissions trap greenhouse gases -- a step that President George W. Bush argued would bring American industry to its knees. 
 Of course Johnson's budgets were built when the nation was becoming increasingly aware of its crippling poverty rates, which was seen as one of the great social issues of the day, while Mr. Obama is responding to a sense that the middle class is falling behind the wealthiest Americans.
 There is a boldness to the strategy -- the kind of boldness that worked for Mr. Obama during the presidential campaign -- that is breathtaking. He is gambling that the combination of his political capital and the urgency created by the economic crisis gives him a moment that may never come around again. 
 But along the way, he appears to have shed President Clinton's fear of being labeled an old-fashioned liberal. 
 To deflect the criticism that he is returning to an era of big government, Mr. Obama is relying on new packaging. He is being highly specific about how taxes on the wealthy would be redirected to programs that resonate with those who were listening to his campaign promises. 
 ''There are striking similarities to Johnson and Great Society,'' said Robert Dallek, the presidential historian who has written extensively about Johnson's promise of an end to poverty, a commitment made in a State of the Union address 45 years ago, and one that he was only able to deliver on in part. 
 ''Obama's rhetoric is not as grandiose,'' Mr. Dallek said. But he sees risks as well -- the risk that Mr. Obama could reinvent Johnson's mistake. ''Vietnam proved, in a few years, that you really can't do guns and butter. And I worry that Afghanistan could be the parallel for Obama.''
 If Johnson's rallying cry was an end to poverty in the world's richest nation, Mr. Obama's is an end to the Reagan Revolution. With the proposed tax increases on couples making more than $250,000, Mr. Obama has declared that trickle-down economics -- the theory that the entire country benefits as the nation's richest amass and spend -- was a fantasy. He denounced it in moral terms, declaring in his budget that ''there is something wrong when we allow the playing field to be tilted so far in the favor of so few.''
 Emphasizing the focus on the middle class, that same budget noted that from 2000 to 2007, the heart of the Bush presidency, ''median income among households headed by those under 65'' fell by about $2,000. 
 Moreover, as Eugene Steurele, the vice president of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, points out, even the long-term spending in Mr. Obama's budget does not have a tremendous effect on projected deficits. ''In the long term, it's existing health care spending and Social Security that account for these huge deficits, and he hasn't addressed that issue yet.'' 
 By contrast with Mr. Obama, Mr. Clinton was far more cautious. He came to office only four years after Ronald Reagan left Washington, and the rise of the Republican ''Contract with America'' in the mid-1990s kept the Reagan philosophy alive. 
 Moreover, Mr. Clinton was, of course, more beholden to the wealthiest Democratic donors. Mr. Obama's wildly successful campaign strategy of raising hundreds of millions of dollars over the Internet from small donations gives him more political running room. (It also raises the question of whether wealthy voters, who overwhelmingly supported him, will now begin to reconsider their support.)
 What begins now is the hardest part of the battle for Mr. Obama, the program-by-program debates that end up transforming (and oftentimes bloating) a federal budget. It will be a battle Johnson himself, much more a creature of the Senate than Mr. Obama, would have relished. 
 But for the new president, legislative victory alone is not enough. Like Mr. Clinton, he will have to convince the markets, which have been singularly unimpressed by his stimulus package, that America can afford the changes he is making. He must persuade the Chinese, among others, to lend the money to pay for it. And he must convince Americans that he can bring back more activist government without bringing back the worst aspects of big government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama's budget reflects his campaign priorities.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EMISSIONS (76%); HISTORY (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (63%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (50%); POVERTY RATES (50%); BANK FAILURES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1156 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Greenhouse Gas Gamble

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Andrew C. Revkin and Jad Mouawad contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In proposing mandatory caps on the greenhouse gases linked to global warming and a system for auctioning permits to companies that emit them, President Obama is taking on a huge political and economic challenge. 
 Business lobbies and many Republicans raised loud objections to the cap-and-trade program Mr. Obama proposed as part of his budget this week, saying the plan amounted to a gigantic and permanent tax on oil, electricity and manufactured goods, a shock they said the country could not handle during economic distress.
 Green groups and supportive members of Congress applauded, saying the proposal was long overdue after eight years of inaction on climate change under President George W. Bush. The costs, they said, would not begin to bite until at least 2012. 
 But the full costs and benefits of controlling greenhouse gas emissions remain unknown, and perhaps unknowable. While there is rough consensus on the science of global warming -- with some notable and vocal objectors -- there is less agreement on the economics of the problem and very little on the policy prescriptions to address it. And while a cap-and-trade approach bears substantial cost, it also brings a benefit whose value is incalculable -- a steady decrease in emissions that scientists say will over time reduce the risk of climate catastrophe.
 Mr. Obama's budget estimates $645 billion in cap-and-trade revenue over the next 10 years that will largely be paid by oil, electric power and heavy industries that produce the majority of carbon dioxide and other gases blamed for the warming of the planet. Many of these costs are expected to be passed on to consumers.
 But Mr. Obama offered a sweetener in the form of tax relief for lower- and middle-income families and billions of dollars in new spending for renewable sources of power to cut emissions and ultimately, it is hoped, bring down the cost of energy. He also plans to spend billions to weatherize homes to bring down heating costs for the poor.
 Congress has debated versions of a cap-and-trade regime for years but never enacted one, in part because it would become so complex. The House is working on such legislation now; Senate leaders promise action later this year. Mr. Obama laid out only broad principles and targets, and his aides admit that revenue estimates are only a rough guess and will depend on whatever emerges from Congress. The White House projects the program to be in place starting in 2012.
 Mr. Obama and his allies have a steep hill to climb. The recession-scarred public rates global warming low on its list of priorities. Lobbyists for business interests are lined up to weaken or kill any carbon regulation effort. The president's own party is divided over costs, and many Republicans hate the whole idea.
 ''Let's just be honest and call it a carbon tax that will increase taxes on all Americans who drive a car, who have a job, who turn on a light switch, pure and simple,'' said John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader. ''And if you look at this whole budget plan, they use this carbon tax as a way to fund all of their big government ideas.''
 One utility executive, Thomas Williams of Duke Energy, predicted that electricity rates would jump as much as 40 percent in states that are reliant on coal for much of their power, like Indiana and Kentucky.
 ''It's a coal state stickup,'' he said. He based his figures on a first-year price of $20 per ton of carbon dioxide emissions, a higher price than used by others who have studied the Obama proposal.
 Some economists support Mr. Obama's approach to curbing emissions because they say the other main alternative, a tax on polluting fuels, is politically unpopular.
 But others warn that a cap-and-trade bill could produce great volatility in permit prices and drive up energy costs. 
 ''It's much easier for me to think of scenarios where cap-and-trade goes crazy, prices fluctuate like mad, and people get turned off,'' said Martin Weitzman, a Harvard economist. ''That could end up discrediting the system for a decade or a generation.''
 Supporters of the plan acknowledge that there will be price increases and an uneven distribution of costs. But the White House allocates tens of billions of dollars in tax relief and promises to return any excess revenues directly to the public. Over time, officials contend, new technologies, like hybrid-electric cars and more efficient power plants, will lower energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions at the same time.
 ''We're in a different world,'' said Nathaniel Keohane, director of economic policy at the Environmental Defense Fund, a supporter of strong and immediate action on climate change. ''The president understands, and the world is coming to understand, that the costs of doing nothing are high to catastrophic.'' 
 Dr. Keohane said numerous independent studies, as well as the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Control, estimate the cost of a carbon-reduction program like that advocated by the president would be around 1 percent of gross domestic product per year by 2030, which he considers a reasonable trade-off. Industry-financed studies, not surprisingly, found a higher cost.
 Veronique Bugnion, managing director for research at Point Carbon, a consulting firm on emissions trading, said the Obama plan would lead to gasoline price increases of about 6 percent, or 12 cents a gallon at current American prices, starting in 2012 and rising gradually until 2020. Average utility rates would rise about 7 percent nationwide, she predicted, although with significant regional variations.
 Mr. Obama's plan dedicates $15 billion a year of revenue from the sale of emissions permits to develop new sources of clean energy. But that leaves a large pool of potential government income -- by some estimates, as much as $200 billion a year by 2020. How that money would be spent is expected to lead to a huge battle in Congress.
 Paul Bledsoe, a spokesman at the National Commission on Energy Policy, a bipartisan research organization, said policy makers should not forget that the purpose of a cap-and-trade plan is to reduce carbon emissions and global warming, not to finance pet projects or balance the federal budget.
 ''A cap-and-trade system is absolutely essential to spur private sector innovation, but must be combined with clean energy technology funding to meet the president's ambitious emissions goals,'' he said. ''This funding should be a top priority when dealing with revenue generated by the program.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Feb. 28 about the Obama administration's proposal for mandatory caps on greenhouse gases linked to global warming misstated part of the name of the United Nations panel that reviews scientific evidence on global warming. It is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, not Climate Control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FAMILY (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1157 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Sharper Downturn Clouds Obama's Spending Plans

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
The economy is spiraling down at an accelerating pace, threatening to undermine the Obama administration's spending plans, which anticipate vigorous rates of growth in years to come.
 A sense of disconnect between the projections by the White House and the grim realities of everyday American life was enhanced on Friday, as the Commerce Department gave a harsher assessment for the last three months of 2008. In place of an initial estimate that the economy contracted at an annualized rate of 3.8 percent -- already abysmal -- the government said that the pace of decline was actually 6.2 percent, making it the worst quarter since 1982.
 Disturbing portents were also underscored as the Treasury announced that it was greatly expanding its stake in Citigroup to 36 percent, from 8 percent. General Electric, a corporate behemoth that once seemed impregnable to trouble, announced that it was slicing its stock dividend by two-thirds in a bid to preserve capital. 
 The fortunes of the American economy have grown so alarming and the pace of the decline so swift that economists are now straining to describe where events are headed, dusting off a word that has not been invoked since the 1940s: depression.
 Economists are not making comparisons with the Great Depression of the 1930s, when the unemployment rate reached 25 percent. Current conditions are not even as poor as during the twin recessions of the 1980s, when unemployment exceeded 10 percent, though many experts assert this downturn is on track to be significantly worse. 
 Rather, economists are using the word depression -- a subjective term with no academic definition -- to describe a condition of broad and extreme economic distress that remains stubbornly in place for much longer than a typical downturn.
 This is more than a matter of semantics. As the government determines its spending plans, readying another infusion of cash for troubled banks while contemplating an additional bailout for the auto industry, the magnitude of those needs will hinge on the extent of the damage. 
 Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody'sEconomy.com, now places the odds of ''a mild depression'' at 25 percent, up from 15 percent three months ago. In that view, the unemployment rate would reach 10.5 percent by the end of 2011 -- up from 7.6 percent at the end of January -- average home prices would fall 20 percent on top of the 27 percent they have plunged already, and losses in the financial system would more than triple, to $3.7 trillion.
 Allen Sinai, chief global economist at the research firm Decision Economics, sees a 20 percent chance of ''a depressionlike possibility,'' up from 15 percent a week ago. 
 ''In the housing market, the financial system and the stock market, we're already there,'' Mr. Sinai said. ''It is a depression.''
 Yet, in drawing up the budget, the White House assumed the economy would expand by a robust 3.2 percent in 2010, with growth accelerating to 4 percent over the next three years.
 ''It's a hope, a wing and a prayer,'' Mr. Sinai said. ''It's a return to a sanguine view of the economy that is simply not justified.''
 If, as is widely anticipated, the economy grows more slowly than the White House assumes, revenue will be lower, forcing the government to cut spending, raise taxes or run larger deficits. 
 Economists also criticized as unrealistically hopeful the assumptions by the Federal Reserve as it began so-called stress tests to gauge the health of the nation's largest banks. In testimony, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said that the nation's unemployment rate would most likely reach 8.8 percent next year.
 ''That forecast just doesn't seem realistic,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington, ''and I don't think it helps the Fed's credibility to make these sorts of forecasts right now.''
 As federal regulators estimate potential losses at banks, the harshest assumptions they are testing entails the unemployment rate topping out at 10.3 percent -- the highest level since 1983, but hardly the worst case. 
 By Mr. Baker's reckoning, the unemployment rate may exceed 12 percent -- the highest level since tracking began in 1948.
 ''We continue to see across-the-board numbers coming in worse than we expected,'' Mr. Baker said. 
 By Mr. Zandi's estimation, in the most likely case, the unemployment rate will reach 9.3 percent next year. The distress in the financial system, the job market and real estate have become inextricably intertwined.
 As troubled banks remain hesitant to lend, even healthy companies are laying off workers. As more Americans lose jobs, they are cutting spending, depriving businesses of revenue, and falling behind on house, car and credit card payments, multiplying losses in the financial system. As more homes land in foreclosure and would-be buyers fail to secure mortgages, housing prices fall further, adding to the losses of the banks -- a downward spiral.
 Many economists expect that the labor data to be released next Friday will show that as many as 700,000 jobs disappeared in February, lifting the unemployment rate near 8 percent and pushing total job losses to more than four million since the recession began in December 2007. 
 Given the brutal forces at play, some experts question the administration's decision to publicize the bank stress tests, as opposed to conducting them quietly. 
 ''It invited the interpretation that this was the beginning of triage for the banks, that we were going to start lining them up and shooting them,'' said Alan S. Blinder, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve and a professor at Princeton. ''There are some things in the bank supervisor role that you just keep secret.''
 Others argue that the tests could sow needed assurance. ''The stress test could create transparency,'' said Alan D. Levenson, chief economist at T. Rowe Price in Baltimore.
 As the gruesome data accumulates, this much is already clear: Transparency is not for the squeamish.
 Mr. Levenson noted that the weakening economy was destroying demand for goods and services even faster than the $787 billion stimulus program could replace it.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Projections for the Economy: Annual change in real gross domestic product, projected.(Sources: Office of Management and Budget
Federal Reserve Board)(A1)
A Wide Range of Forecasts: The White House released its budget on Thursday based on projections that the economy would return to fast growth next year and unemployment would be lower. But many economists contend that its projections are too optimistic.
Forecasts of change in Real Gross Domestic Product
Forecasts of the unemployment rate(* Based on the projections released by Consensus Forecasts, Blue Chip and Survey of Professional Forecasters in February.)( The government's worse case test for banks receiving bailout money.)(Sources: Office of Management and Budget
Federal Reserve Board
 Moody's Economy.com)(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); DIVIDENDS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); BANK FAILURES (62%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1158 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: As Iceland Goes, So Goes Ireland?

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: DUBLIN 

 BODY:
What separates Ireland from Iceland?
 According to a local joke, the letter C. According to Morgan Kelly, about six months. 
 The stunning fall of Iceland late last year and the spreading contagion of the financial crisis have ignited fears -- fanned by bloggers, analysts and a small group of outspoken economists like Mr. Kelly -- that Ireland, another small, open economy plagued by deficits and an outsize banking industry with incalculable losses, may suffer a similar fate. 
 Known in this country as Dr. Doom, Mr. Kelly, whose eyes burn with the intensity of his prophesy, calls himself the Nouriel Roubini of Ireland -- a nod to the now world-recognized economist at New York University who was one of a handful of experts who predicted the credit collapse. 
 ''We have gone from the Celtic Tiger to Bob the Builder -- this place is vaporizing,'' Mr. Kelly said as he sipped coffee in a cafe here. An economist at University College in Dublin who specializes in medieval demographics, Mr. Kelly began sounding the alarm of a coming real estate crash in late 2006, the peak of the property boom. 
 Now, he expects the economy to contract 20 percent.
 And his latest prediction -- to which he attaches a 25 percent probability -- is that Ireland will default, and that Anglo Irish Bank, the recently nationalized bank that has become a reviled symbol of rampant lending and corruption, has not only underestimated its loan losses, but has a swelling book of derivatives contracts gone bad. 
 The result, he warns, could be bank losses at Anglo Irish and other banks that supersede the Irish government's promise to guarantee all liabilities in the banking sector. What would follow would be a run on the banks, an inability of the government to finance its 12 percent budget deficit and ultimately, a bailout by the European Union. 
 ''That is the optimistic scenario,'' Mr. Kelly said, arguing that his worst fear is a collective economic failure of several countries in eastern Europe, along with Ireland and those on the southern periphery of the euro zone -- Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal -- that would be beyond the capacity of any government or group of governments to stem. 
 ''It's not about the property developers and the banks anymore -- it is about the survival of Ireland,'' he said. 
 In many ways, this ''blood-dimmed tide'' that Mr. Kelly fears resembles more an apocalyptic fancy of William Butler Yeats than rigorous economic thinking. Mr. Kelly's view is in the distinct minority here -- but so was Mr. Roubini's in the United States. 
 Among the fraternity of economists in Dublin, Mr. Kelly's perspective is seen not only as outlandish based on the facts, but bordering on the irresponsible. 
 ''People are talking aloud about what-if scenarios as if they are real,'' said Gerard O'Neill, an economist and consultant in Dublin whose research has shown that the more the Irish public is exposed to such negative views, the less it spends -- a classic example of John Maynard Keynes's paradox of thrift. 
 ''This talk of disaster is so one-sided and irresponsible,'' Mr. O'Neill added. ''It is bad for Ireland.'' 
 Mr. O'Neill and other economists like Patrick Honohan, a former economist at the World Bank who teaches at Trinity College Dublin, argue that Ireland will never go the way of Iceland because Ireland's public debt is a manageable 40 percent of gross domestic product. The banking sector, more than 200 percent of national income, does not even approach that of Iceland, they add, which was about 10 times the size of its economy. 
 Mr. Honohan said that at worst, bank losses will compose about 20 percent of national income. ''Are we another Iceland? No. The numbers just are not big enough,'' he said. 
 It is a view shared by the government, though Mary Coughlan, who as deputy prime minister oversees trade and industry, acknowledged in an interview that there was a need to ''reinstate our record internationally.''
 As for the worst-case assumptions, she shook her head, citing fiscal measures and the continuing bank cleanup. ''We will not be another Iceland,'' she said. 
 Still, as the slump deepens, it is becoming evident that the controversy surrounding Anglo Irish -- and the broader threat it may pose to the Irish economy -- is putting intense pressure on the government. This week, police raided the bank's offices as part of an investigation into a murky web of insider dealings and undisclosed loans that has infuriated the public. 
 Once a sleepy domestic bank, Anglo Irish became one of the biggest property lenders in Europe, its loan book growing at more than 30 percent a year. 
 And now Dublin -- a small town where gossip travels quickly -- is consumed with speculation that the government is not adequately investigating a brewing scandal over more than 400 million euros ($510 million), that Anglo Irish lent to a ''golden circle'' of real estate developers to support its sinking stock price. 
 And this week, even the country's police force took to the street. ''There was corruption in Enron and Madoff and they took them all away in handcuffs,'' said Brian Finn, 50, a patrolman from the industrial town of Drogheda. ''But in this country they don't even touch the crooks.'' 
 Ms. Coughlan said the inquiry into Anglo Irish continues. ''People want heads on plates,'' she said. ''But we have to be careful. We are a democracy, after all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Morgan Kelly, an Irish economist, predicts a collapse.
 The Garda, or the Irish police force, organized a protest of a new tax on public sector pensions.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DEREK SPEIRS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); NATIONALIZATION (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (62%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (57%)

COMPANY: IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%) IRELAND (95%); ICELAND (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); GREECE (73%); PORTUGAL (70%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1159 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: F.D.I.C. Increases Fees To Insure Bank Deposits

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Declaring the decline in its insurance fund an emergency, the board of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed on Friday a one-time $15 billion increase in insurance premiums on the nation's 8,300 banks. 
 When combined with a longer-term fee increase also approved on Friday, the new fees mean that banks must pay $27 billion to replenish the insurance fund this year, nine times more than last year. The increase immediately evoked protests and predictions that it could further curtail lending nationwide.
 F.D.I.C. officials said Friday morning that such a drastic step was necessary because the insurance fund, coping with the surging number of bank failures in the last year, has dropped below a legally mandated minimum. 
 ''It is a very tough call,'' the board chairwoman, Sheila C. Bair, said Friday, just before the 4-to-1 vote. ''I wish there was an easy out. There is not.''
 The agency, which currently insures deposits on accounts worth up to $250,000, estimates it will lose $65 billion through 2013 as a result of bank failures. Already this year, 16 banks have failed, compared with 25 last year and just three in 2007. Another 252 banks are currently on the agency's watch list, meaning they are at risk of failing. There were 76 banks on the list as of the end of 2007.
 The sole vote against the fee increases came from John M. Reich, an F.D.I.C. board member and federal banking regulator whose last day of government service was Friday. 
 ''The Congress, Treasury, the Fed and we regulators are clamoring for banks to lend money,'' he said, estimating that for each extra dollar banks must pay in deposit insurance it will mean $12 less in new loans.
 The jump in fees will be particularly painful for smaller community banks, which generally pay a higher assessment rate, said Camden R. Fine, president of the Independent Community Bankers of America.
 ''The F.D.I.C. has decided to levy such a heavy burden on Main Street banks to indirectly pay for the economic wreckage caused by the incompetence and greed on Wall Street,'' he said.
 For a healthy bank with $1 billion in domestic deposits, its F.D.I.C. insurance premiums will rise to $3.2 million this year, from $500,000 last year, agency officials said, an increase that Mr. Fine predicted would translate into higher banking fees, fewer loans or lower savings account interest rates.
 F.D.I.C. officials said they believed they had no other choice because the balance in the agency's insurance fund, after accounting for bank failures last year and those expected this year, had dropped to $19 billion, its lowest since the end of the nation's last major banking crisis in 1993. Without the emergency assessment, they believed that the fund would have run out of money. The agency could turn to the Treasury for help, but it prides itself on being self-sufficient, meaning that banks, not taxpayers, cover any losses resulting from failures.
 As a concession to the industry, the F.D.I.C. board also voted Friday to declare an ''exceptional'' economic situation, legally allowing them to replenish the insurance fund to the legal minimum over seven years instead of the normally required five years. But it also reserved the right to impose future emergency special assessments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman, said it was ''a very tough call.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BANKING LAW (72%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1160 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Which Way Out of the Wilderness?

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
What does it mean to be a conservative in the age of Obama?
 For many of the 8,500 who signed up to attend the annual Conservative Political Action Conference here, it means denouncing the $3.6 trillion budget President Obama put forth this week, while asking the unthinkable: ''Does this mean the Reagan revolution is over?'' 
 It means declaring war, as Newt Gingrich, the movement's guiding light, did here on Friday, against Mr. Obama's ''European socialism transplanted to Washington,'' a phrase fast seeping into the conservative lexicon. (Mr. Gingrich also deplored ''the Bush-Obama big spending program,'' a sign that former President George W. Bush, a onetime hero to conservatives, was being thrown overboard.) 
 It means wincing, ever so slightly, at the name of the messenger Republicans put forth to respond Tuesday to Mr. Obama's address to Congress. ''Um, you know, I think Bobby's had better days,'' said Ralph Reed, former executive director of the Christian Coalition, referring to Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. ''But I thought the content of the message was great.''
 To be a conservative in the age of Obama is to be thinking, deeply, about the movement's future. Many conservatives see Mr. Obama's budget as a wonderful gift, tied up neatly in a red bow that screams ''tax and spend.''
 Yet even as they predicted that the budget would lead to a Republican revival in 2010, those gathered here were grappling with just how their movement would reinvent itself at a time when Americans are terrified of economic disaster and inclined to back the new president.
 ''Many people are asking, 'Will this be the end of the Reagan revolution?' '' said Saul Anuzis, former Michigan Republican chairman, adding, ''This is going to be our time to redefine what we stand for as a movement.''
 Conservatives here agreed that redefinition would come with new leaders, and new messengers. Yet the search for new leadership occurs as the movement is undergoing a generational shift, a point that was underscored Friday by the announcement that the prominent Christian conservative James C. Dobson, 72, was stepping down as chairman of Focus on the Family. 
 Many here said they were looking to younger leaders in Congress, among them Representatives Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House Republican whip; Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin; and Aaron Schock of Illinois. Perhaps reflecting that, those at the CPAC gathering seemed disproportionately young.
 ''Look at this place,'' Mr. Anuzis said, scanning the crowd. ''The future leaders of our movement and our party are somewhere in this room. They have not even emerged, and I think that's a good thing.''
 But the movement and the party are not one and the same. Many Republicans believe that the answer to the party's woes is to become more moderate, to move to the center. The right wing, though, is pushing back against that notion. 
 At 75, Lewis K. Uhler is a veteran of the Reagan revolution; he worked for ''the governor'' as an assistant health secretary during Reagan's California days.
 On Friday, Mr. Uhler said it was time for conservatives to ''take the next step'' beyond Reagan, by promoting recent research specifying prudent limits on spending and taxes.
 ''We are devotees of limited government,'' he said, ''but until recently we had no way to identify what our limits should be.''
 At the other end of the generational spectrum, Daniel Sheill, 26, a recent law school graduate from Michigan, said conservatives should leave Reagan behind. ''All this constant talk about Reagan -- Reagan did this and Reagan did that,'' Mr. Sheill said. ''Well, Reagan's been dead for five years.''
 If there was any consensus here, it was that conservatives needed not new ideas but rather new ways of packaging old ideas, as well as messengers -- like Mr. Jindal, who is of Indian descent, and Michael Steele, the first African-American chairman of the Republican National Committee -- to appeal to a broader, multicultural swath of the nation.
 Some conservatives say they already have the perfect messenger: Mr. Obama himself.
 ''Barack Obama has done what George W. Bush wouldn't do and John McCain couldn't do,'' said John Gizzi, political editor of the conservative journal Human Events, ''and that is to breathe new life and fresh perspective into the small-government, less-spending canons that are the gold standard of conservatism.''
 If there was any doubt about Mr. Obama's impact, evidence could be found at tables stacked high with critical books like ''The Obama Nation.'' 
 And a young cartoonist, William Warren of the advocacy group Americans for Limited Government, displayed his latest work, a lampoon of the iconic Obama campaign poster. The cartoon tweaks the president for sounding gloomy about the economy; an asterisk adjoins the word ''hope,'' with the phrase ''some terms and conditions may apply.''
 Mr. Warren, 23, said he was confident that conservatives would rise again, though he confessed that he did not quite know how. ''Sometimes,'' he said, ''you have to restructure yourself and figure out what you believe in. I'm still figuring it out myself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among those at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference, in Washington, was Samuel J.Wurzelbacher, a k a Joe the Plumber, who signed copies of his book there Friday morning.
 An appeal for petition signatures was one manifestation of the protest against what Newt Gingrich denounced as President Obama's ''European socialism transplanted to Washington.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BOBBY JINDAL (66%); ERIC CANTOR (57%); AARON SCHOCK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1161 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: The Coming Battle Over the Budget

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama, Breaking 'From a Troubled Past,' Seeks Budget to Reshape U.S. Priorities'' (front page, Feb. 27):
 Many Republicans claim that Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal did not succeed in bringing us out of the Great Depression, but rather that the huge government spending related to fighting World War II did. 
 Let's assume that's true. I say, then, let's spend as if we were in World War II and our very survival depended on it. President Obama's budget appears to do exactly that. 
 Don George Atlanta, Feb.
 27, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Bold Plan Sweeps Away Reagan Ideas,'' by David Leonhardt (Economic Scene, front page, Feb. 27):
 Statistics on rising economic inequality in the United States often make people's eyes glaze over. They shouldn't. 
 President Obama's attempt to restore some semblance of economic equality and fairness is of paramount importance. It's the right thing to do morally.
 It is also essential to re-establishing an economy and culture that can, in turn, stand behind all other necessary and vital policy changes, in every sphere of social life.
 Consider the contrast: the soaring economic inequality of the Reagan-Bush era concentrated wealth and power. That has egregiously distorted our political system, tilting policy in favor of perpetuating inequality and frustrating crucial reforms. The bitter fruits of that distortion are evident all around, most obviously in the regulatory lapses that contributed to economic calamity.
 It is going to require enormous effort to ensure that President Obama's bold, good and essential budget proposal survives the torturous journey through Congress.
 Richard E. Sclove Amherst, Mass., Feb.
 27, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Leonhardt writes that President Obama's ''proposals seek to reverse the rapid increase in economic inequality over the last 30 years.'' 
 This ''rapid increase'' has not been a result of an increase in the number of wage earners making $250,000 to $300,000 annually, but rather has resulted from executives making millions or tens of millions of dollars annually, and sometimes more. It has also come from the enormous amounts of investment income, which is taxed at a lower rate. 
 Increasing taxes on individuals and families making more than $250,000 a year may increase overall government receipts (or it may not, as it may act as a deterrent to working harder), but it will not correct the vast wealth inequality.
 Mimi Blaurock Los Altos, Calif., Feb.
 27, 2009
 The writer is a medical doctor.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''President Obama's Budget'' (editorial, Feb. 27):
 Writing the budget was the easy part. The hard part, and where President Obama could really make his mark, will be to ensure that taxpayers get the maximum return on their trillion-dollar investment. 
 Two areas that scream for his attention are education and health care. Mr. Obama needs to change the nation's attitudes toward these huge social programs. Currently, too many people take them for granted or just assume that they are beyond repair. 
 He must challenge students and parents to meet the responsibilities of school. And likewise, he should challenge every American to live a healthier lifestyle, thereby reducing the overall strain on the system. In short, President Obama needs to not only spend, but also lead.
 Timothy O. Corkery Needham, Mass., Feb.
 27, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''Progress on Health Care'' (editorial, Feb. 27) describes the coming struggle over President Obama's plans for health reform, in which powerful stakeholders will be lining up in opposition as legislation goes through Congress. 
 All those stakeholders except the most important ones -- members of the American public -- will have their say and defend their ''rights.'' The first task, before we begin to calibrate the policies of change through accommodation, is to give those main stakeholders the power to exercise their reasonable rights. 
 Once there was an ideological divide between members of the public, between the ''haves'' and the ''have-nots,'' but now the rising numbers of disaffected ''used-to-haves'' in the middle class could play a significant role by presenting a coherent voice, as they did in November.
 Lewis Lefkowitz Nashville, Feb.
 27, 2009
 The writer is a medical doctor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); POLITICS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009



1162 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Braced for a Higher Tax Bill, Some May Dodge the Bullet

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER and TARA SIEGEL BERNARD; Catherine Rampell and Amanda Cox contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The wealthiest stand to lose the most under President Obama's proposed budget, while individuals with lower incomes could gain in many different ways. 
 But many of those in between -- those with household incomes of $200,000 to $400,000 or so -- may not see as much of a difference in their tax bills as they may have feared.
 Plenty of people in this income range live in high-cost areas of the Northeast and California and stretched, rightly or wrongly, to afford their homes when real estate prices were higher. They may not consider themselves rich at all, laughable as that may seem to people earning far less in the middle of the country. But they've been worried sick as the president has persistently defined them as rich enough to pay more in taxes -- at the exact moment when their jobs may be in danger or their small businesses or commission income may be suffering. 
 It turns out, however, that many of them were already subject to pretty high taxes because they were paying the alternative minimum tax. Even if the new tax increases go into effect, the amount of taxes they owe may not change much, according to Clint Stretch, the managing principal of tax policy at Deloitte L.L.C. in Washington. That's because the amount they owe under the regular income tax system, while higher under Mr. Obama's plan, may not push them out of A.M.T. territory, he said.
 But higher-income people in states with lower income or property taxes are more likely to pay bigger sums under the president's proposals, depending on their income and deductions. 
 And Mr. Obama's tax plan would affect people -- mostly those with high incomes -- who work for hedge funds or private equity firms and pay only a 15 percent capital gains tax rate on much of the money they take home. Now, they would pay ordinary income tax rates, as much as 39.6 percent, on everything.
 In any event, none of this would start until 2011, which gives the economy a chance to recover and taxpayers time to estimate the impact on themselves. 
 The budget proposal also contains new or improved tax breaks for low-income workers, college students and millions who earn less than $65,000 and want to save more for retirement. Besides taxes, there are education and health programs in the new budget that will benefit people with low and moderate incomes. 
 Not all of these measures will survive the Congressional haggling process. This week's proposals are probably the worst case for high-income people. 
 But it sure looks as though some wealthy people will pay more. Whether it's more than their fair share is a debate for the ages. Since they are bearing the brunt of the changes, however, we'll detail the ones that affect them.
 The top two federal income tax brackets would rise to 36 percent and 39.6 percent from 33 percent and 35 percent, respectively. This would affect married couples who earn more than $250,000 in gross income, and singles who earn more than $200,000, according to Mr. Stretch of Deloitte. 
 Upper-income people will also find that their income tax deductions are not worth as much. Most families in the top two tax brackets itemize tax deductions. Mortgage interest, property taxes, charitable contributions and state income taxes are some of the most popular deductions. 
 Under the proposed budget, however, taxpayers will get less in deductions. Currently, the benefit of itemizing increases as you move up the income ladder. For someone in the existing 35 percent tax bracket, $10,000 in itemized deductions would reduce a tax bill by $3,500. But the Obama plan would limit that deduction to 28 percent, cutting tax liability by only $2,800.
 Here's what would happen to a married couple in New York with two children under the age of 17, a $300,000 household income and itemized deductions of $75,000 ($36,000 in mortgage interest, $6,000 in charitable contributions, $18,000 in state income taxes and $15,000 in property taxes). 
 Under the current tax system, they would owe $56,400 in federal taxes, which is the amount they pay because their circumstances force them to pay the alternative minimum tax. Higher-income individuals generally need to run two calculations when they are doing their federal taxes, one under the regular tax system and another using the A.M.T. The A.M.T. does not allow several deductions like property taxes and state income taxes. Taxpayers pay whichever bill is higher.
 The couple's total federal tax bill under the existing, regular tax system would have been $48,300, $8,100 less than the A.M.T. tax due. That difference would shrink to $5,800 under President Obama's system, according to Deloitte. That would not be enough to push the family out of A.M.T. territory. Thus, they'd still owe the same $56,400.
 But if their income rose, that difference would shrink to zero, and the A.M.T. amount would then become less than the regular income tax. ''At some point, you have enough income and small enough deductions that all of the Obama changes would hurt,'' Mr. Stretch said. 
 According to the Internal Revenue Service, 27 percent of households earning more than $200,000 annually live in the Northeast and 25 percent live on the West Coast, both prime areas for the A.M.T.
 People in the top two brackets would also pay more in taxes on their investments. The rate paid on capital gains and qualified dividends would rise to 20 percent from 15 percent (middle income families, or those in the 25 percent and 28 percent tax brackets, would still pay 15 percent). 
 The budget would make permanent the ''Making Work Pay'' tax cut, which was passed as part of the Recovery Act for 2009 and 2010. This provision provides a refundable tax credit of up to $400 for working individuals and $800 for married couples filing their tax returns jointly. 
 The credit begins to phase out at income levels of $75,000 for individuals and $150,000 for married couples filing jointly. 
 Since the credit is ''refundable,'' you'll get money back even if you have no federal income-tax liability. The credit will be distributed by reducing the amount of taxes deducted from your paycheck for Social Security and Medicare.

GRAPHIC: CHART: For Some Families, a Wash: Under President Obama's tax plan, some families could end up paying the same amount in taxes as under the current law. They would still have to pay the alternative minimum tax. And while taxes they would owe under the regular income tax system would increase with the Obama plan, they would not increase enough to exceed the amount owed under A.M.T.(Example assumes that the two top tax brackets of 36 percent for couples with taxable incomes above $208,850 and 39.6 percent for those above $372,950 are reinstated, and that expected new limits on itemized deductions are imposed.)(Source: Deloitte L.L.C.)(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); HOME PRICES (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (90%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009

 
