

401 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Slip on Worries Over Effects of Katrina

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market gave up ground last week on concerns that the economy may be slowing and inflation rising in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. 
 Some investors will be in a holding pattern until Tuesday when Federal Reserve policy makers are to decide whether to raise short-term interest rates. 
The weekly market decline occurred despite a rally on Friday, which was not powerful enough to make up for earlier deficits.
 Consumer confidence fell sharply this month, according to a preliminary survey released on Friday by the University of Michigan. The drop in early September was bigger than the monthly decline after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, but some economists said it was likely to be temporary.
 For the week, Dow Jones industrial average declined by 36.62 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 10,641.94. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3.57 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 1,237.91. The Nasdaq composite index fell 15.16 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 2,160.35. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.27 percent from 4.12 percent the previous week. Gold futures for December delivery rose to $464.50 an ounce. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.NokiaNYSE: NOKThe maker of cellphones said that its sales were improving and that it was introducing a mobile e-mail device to compete with the BlackBerry from Research in Motion.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $16.61WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.47%EST. '05 P/E: 17.16Knight RidderNYSE: KRIThe newspaper publisher said third-quarter earnings would drop about 20 percent from the period a year ago because of falling ad sales and higher newsprint costs.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $60.70WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.01%EST. '05 P/E: 16.75CEC EntertainmentNYSE: CECThe restaurant company warned that its third-quarter earnings would be lower than expected, as several of its Chuck E. Cheese restaurants in Louisiana remained closed in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $32.45WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.35%EST. '05 P/E: 15.40Able EnergyNNM: ABLEThe heating oil company said it signed a letter of intent to buy an oil refinery in Somerset, Ky., for $19.5 million. The refinery produces gasoline and heavy fuel oils for homes and industry furnaces. It supplies 46 gas stations.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $14.81WEEK'S CHANGE: +21.29%EST. '05 P/E: --Kansas City SouthernNYSE: KSUThe railroad operator said it settled a tax dispute with the Mexican government over a railway that the company bought earlier this year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $23.06WEEK'S CHANGE: +15.30%EST. '05 P/E: 36.03VicalNNM: VICLThe biopharmaceutical company expanded a licensing deal with Merck that increased potential payments for developing cancer and H.I.V. drugs. Separately, it said it received a $2.9 million grant for research.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $5.06WEEK'S CHANGE: +19.91%EST. '05 P/E: --EchoStar CommunicationsNNM: DISHThe satellite TV provider said it added a channel to the Dish Network dedicated to Hurricane Katrina relief efforts. Its shares fell on concerns about rising industry costs.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.85WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.25%EST. '05 P/E: 9.51ToppsNNM: TOPPThe maker of trading cards and bubble gum said it would not sell its candy business but would eliminate an unspecified number of managerial jobs to save money.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $8.67WEEK'S CHANGE: -10.71%EST. '05 P/E: 33.35(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); BONDS (78%); FUTURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); WEATHER (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); INTEREST RATES (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



402 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Don't Jump to Conclusions (Especially After Hurricanes)

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IT'S easy to make snap judgments about events like Hurricane Katrina: bad news for the economy, at least in the short run, but good news for energy profits, right? It's also easy for investment strategies to be spun around by them. And that should be a consideration for any investor who's thinking of making major changes to a portfolio in Katrina's aftermath. 
 Days after Katrina crashed into the Gulf Coast -- disrupting vital ports and sending energy prices soaring in its immediate wake -- many investors quickly jumped to one of two conclusions.
For starters, a number of the stock market's bulls became convinced that the Federal Reserve would have to stop raising short-term interest rates, given the weakened state of the economy. Bears, meanwhile, thought that the storm could cause an inversion of the yield curve, meaning that yields on long-term bonds would begin to pay less than short-term securities. 
 Are either of these possibilities a lock? Let's start with the Fed. 
 Some people now think that when the Fed's monetary policy committee convenes on Tuesday, it will keep its target for the federal funds rate, which financial institutions charge one another on overnight loans, at 3.5 percent. Before Katrina, a quarter-point rate increase was considered a virtual certainty. If the Fed stops raising rates, conventional wisdom says the effects would be bullish for the equity markets. After all, stocks went on a tear after the Fed ended rate-tightening cycles in 1989 and 1995.
 Yet it's still far from certain that the Fed is done raising rates. In a speech in Chicago on Sept. 7, more than a week after Katrina dealt a body blow to the economy, Michael H. Moskow, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, expressed concern that core inflation was ''running at the upper end of the range that I feel is consistent with price stability.'' Such language would indicate that Fed officials are worried not only about post-Katrina economic growth, but also about the effects of higher energy and commodity prices on overall inflation. 
 Robert C. Doll, president and chief investment officer at Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, observes that ''there are now a bunch of people running around saying the Fed is done.'' In light of that new sentiment, he wonders, what will happen if the Fed announces another increase on Tuesday?
 And even if the Fed doesn't raise rates that day, it may not yet be finished. ''I could see the case for the Fed pausing in September or even November, based on the uncertainties generated by the storm,'' said Nicholas P. Sargen, chief investment officer at Fort Washington Investment Advisors. ''But if someone said to me that this is the end of the story on rate hikes, I would disagree with that.''
 Even if Mr. Sargen is wrong and the Fed is done for good, investors don't necessarily have a green light to start pumping money into equities. 
 Ned Davis Research studied the historical performance of the Dow Jones industrial average after Fed tightening cycles. While stocks did rally in a big way in 1989 and 1995, the average performance of the Dow in the 12 months after the Fed finishes has been a loss of 3.9 percent, dating back to 1920. In fact, in 9 of the last 16 cases, stocks have lost ground in the next 12 months. 
 What's important for investors isn't necessarily when the Fed is done tightening -- it's why. Is it stopping because inflation is no longer a threat or because the economy is slowing on its own? Or, worse, what if the Fed stops raising rates because the economy is in real trouble?
 Now, let's turn to the other snap judgment about Katrina: that it would prompt a flight to safety into bonds, theoretically driving down long-term interest rates to the point that they yield less than short-term debt. That phenomenon is called an inverted yield curve, and, historically, it has been an indicator of impending recession.
 The fear of an inverted curve seemed to be justified when worried investors drove money into Treasuries in the first four days after the storm, lowering the yield on the 10-year to as low as 3.98 percent from as high as 4.18 percent.
 Yet a little more than a week after the storm, the 10-year Treasury yield bounced back. On Friday, it stood at 4.27 percent.
 Indeed, market watchers are now divided about whether Katrina will invert the yield curve or do the opposite: steepen it. ''I can make arguments for both cases,'' said Tobias M. Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup. 
 For example, the bond market might rally -- and yields decline -- if investors truly feared that the economy would slow because of higher energy costs. Alternatively, bonds could just as easily sell off if investors started believing that those higher costs were leading to an inflationary spiral. That, in turn, could send long bond yields higher, steepening the curve.
 EVEN if the curve does invert, does that necessarily spell doom for the stock market? No. 
 To be sure, stocks do perform much better on average when the curve is flat or steep as opposed to inverted. But Mr. Levkovich recently studied stock market performance in periods after yield curve inversions, going back to 1920. In three of the last seven periods, the Standard & Poor's 500 index of blue-chip stocks actually gained ground in the year after the curve inverted.
 While inverted yield curves typically foreshadow recessions, which are bad for stocks, those recessions sometimes don't manifest themselves until one year -- or, in some cases, two -- after the inversion, said Anthony Chan, managing director and senior economist at J.P. Morgan Asset Management. So investors should try not to overreact.
 ''Today, information disperses so fast that we're reacting in nanoseconds to the news,'' Mr. Chan said. Yet, he said, our initial responses to market or economic turmoil often end up being wrong. 
 Mr. Chan's advice to investors: ''In these circumstances, you have to be careful not to react in the short-term to the noise, because the risk of being whipsawed is so great.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''After the Fed Finishes''The Federal Reserve has raised and lowered interest rates many times over the years. In the 12 months after periods of Fed rate increases since 1969, stocks have often performed well. But since 1920, they have lost ground, on average, after such periods.Performance of the Dow industrials in the 12 months after the Fed's last moves in rateraising cycles.April 3, 1969: -14.7%April 25, 1974: - 2.9Feb. 15, 1980: + 6.2May 5, 1981: -12.1Feb. 24, 1989: +14.2Feb. 1, 1995: +40.2May 16, 2000: + 2.6Avg. since 1920: - 3.9(Source by Ned Davis Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); YIELD CURVE (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit; Hurricanes; Katrina (Storm)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (81%); MERRILL LYNCH ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS LLC (52%); FORT WASHINGTON INVESTMENT ADVISORS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



403 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Out on Her Own, but Not for Long

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
HER business career and personal life have blended into one very sweet confection.
 In 2000, Dawn Casale left Barneys New York, where she had been the women's accessories manager at the Madison Avenue store, to become a cookie maker -- and cookie seller, packager, shipper and promoter. The one-person business she was starting was reflected in the name she chose for the venture, One Girl Cookies.
The baking was to be done in the small kitchen of her Greenwich Village apartment, and the other tasks wherever in the apartment they could be accommodated. 
 In her first full year, 2001, Ms. Casale sold 2,500 pounds of her petite handmade cookies, bringing in $34,000. Last year, by then with a co-owner (more about this later), the business sold 7,000 pounds for $150,000, Ms. Casale said recently. 
 She projects revenues this year of $300,000 from her cookies, which are still handmade, largely the size of a bite or two, and include varieties like a hazelnut sandwich filled with chocolate cinnamon ganache and a nut butter topped with toasted coconut. 
 By early 2002, Ms. Casale said, ''I realized I couldn't do it alone anymore.'' So she hired a baker (more about this, too, later) and moved into professional kitchen space in Manhattan that she sublet from a caterer, who became her first wholesale customer. Then, three weeks ago, One Girl moved into its latest home, at 68 Dean Street in Brooklyn, just off a trendy strip of Smith Street in Boerum Hill. It has a still larger production space as well as room for additions: a retail shop and a coffee bar, which will be completed soon. 
 The additions, Ms. Casale said, are among the changes that she hopes will spur a financial breakthrough, toward net returns greater than the annual ''small profits'' One Girl has realized so far. Revenues may have sharply increased, but as the business has grown, so have the costs.
 Why did she move to baking soda and butter from belts and brooches?
 After six years at Barneys, ''I felt I was at a dead end,'' said Ms. Casale, 34. A promotion to group manager, she said, would have involved ''a lot of time spent in the office'' rather than working on floor displays and dealing directly with salespeople, both of which she enjoyed.
 So she decided to build a business out of another activity that she had long enjoyed.
 Growing up, she said, she baked frequently with her mother and her three sisters. Also, the start-up costs of a home-based cookie business were minimal, she said, unlike the expansion expenses later. Those expenses, Ms. Casale said, have been partly financed with the aid of more than $100,000 in loans.
 Much of One Girl's early business came from, or through, customers, colleagues and vendors she had dealt with at Barneys. Word of mouth from satisfied customers helped, she said, as did promotional efforts like tastings at Dean & DeLuca, currently One Girl's largest wholesale customer. 
 Wholesale sales currently account for about 60 percent of One Girl's revenues, Ms. Casale said. Bernard Reynolds, executive vice president of the Retail Bakers of America, an industry group, said small bakeries whose revenues come largely from a small number of wholesale buyers ''may be more prone to pressure,'' if the buyers seek a lower price, than bakeries that rely more heavily on retail sales. 
 Ms. Casale agreed, saying that this was one reason for the planned retail shop, and for planned sales on an Internet site that is to be upgraded with a $2,000 small-business grant. The money was awarded by a program sponsored by the city's Department of Small Business Services and Commission on Women's Issues. One Girl's sales so far have largely been through telephone orders.
 The company now has two employees working with Ms. Casale and her co-owner. Which brings us to the information promised earlier. The co-owner and the baker she hired in 2002 are one and the same: David Crofton, who went from employee to business partner two years ago.
 Then, three months ago, they partnered again: they married.
 One need not ask where the cookies for that occasion came from.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ONE GIRL, ONE PARTNER -- Dawn Casale, once an accessories manager at Barneys, started a cookie business in 2000. David Crofton, left, is now co-owner and her husband. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKIE & CRACKER MFG (89%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); SALES FORCE (74%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (73%); BAKED GOODS (72%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (72%); CATERING SERVICES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



404 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Gas Prices Shake Up Commuting Routines

BYLINE: By GREG CLARKIN

 BODY:
IN the predawn darkness, John Ficke picks up his coffee, then rounds up fellow commuters for the 60-mile drive from Torrington to Fairfield. 
 On the platform of the Bridgeport train station, Tony Davis can watch traffic crawl southbound on I-95, traffic he sat in a few weeks ago before switching to the train to New York.
On her hourlong drive from New Britain to Storrs, Janice Palmer has turned off the air-conditioning, sweating it out with the windows up while watching her speed.
 And Kristen Werden is ''pounding the pavement'' around her job in Shelton, working to find passengers for the van pool she is determined to start. 
 Different commuters with very different commutes, but driven to make a change by one common factor: $3-a-gallon gasoline.
 All across Connecticut, commuters are teaming up and slowing down, trading wheels for rails, all in an effort to save money on gas. Even as gas prices retreat from above $3.50 a gallon, many commuters have decided to make major changes to the way they travel to and from work to save money.
 ''Higher energy prices siphon off buying power,'' said Donald Klepper-Smith, chief economist with DataCore Partners, a consulting firm in New Haven. ''But people still need to get to work and still need to do the grocery shopping.'' 
 Mr. Klepper-Smith said it costs the average Connecticut family, with two cars to fuel and a house to heat, as much as $2,500 more a year than it did five years ago, a $200-a-month increase.
 The jump in gas prices over the last few months, capped by the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, forced many consumers to ''rethink their driving habits,'' he said.
 That's what it took for Mr. Ficke to alter his commute.
 ''When it got to the point where gas was costing me $30 a day, I had to do something,'' he said.
 He had always looked for car pool partners for his 120-mile-a-day commute, but a few weeks ago he went even further. He searched various ride-share Web sites, but was unable to find a match, so he began calling friends and acquaintances he could pick up and drop off along the way.
 As a result, some days he has as many as three passengers in his Dodge truck and makes multiple stops before arriving in Fairfield, where he is a transportation supervisor for the Board of Education.
 Mr. Davis abandoned his S.U.V. for the train to commute to his publishing job in New York when gas hit $3 a gallon.
 ''I probably save $200, maybe $250 a month,'' Mr. Davis said as he waited for a train in Bridgeport.
 Commuting by train also lets Mr. Davis leave for work later. It was after 7 a.m. as he waited for a train, a full hour later than when he used to leave when driving.
 Shemshat Soltanova, a paralegal in Norwalk, traded her car for the train from Bridgeport about six weeks after it became too costly to fill up her car.
 ''I don't want to use my car,'' she said. ''At these prices it would cost me $45 to fill it up for a week.'' Her monthly train ticket costs $58 and she estimates her monthly savings to be more than $200.
 But there are commuters who don't have the options of finding riders to share the costs or switching to mass transit.
 Ms. Palmer drives about 45 miles each way between New Britain and Storrs, where she is director of communications for the Neag School of Education at the University of Connecticut. She said that by late summer her gas bill was approaching $65 a week.
 ''It hurt when I figured it out,'' Ms. Palmer said.
 She set out to find passengers to car-pool with, but was unsuccessful. Her alternative was to change her driving habits. She asked herself ''What's in my power to do?
 ''I slowed down a bit on the highway and really stuck to the speed limit,'' she said. ''And I paid attention to not coming to quick stops and start-ups at stop signs.''
 And she closed the windows to reduce drag and shut off the air-conditioning.
 ''I shut it off on some of the hottest days of the year and it was quite a hot ride home,'' she said.
 All of the measures paid off.
 ''I honestly felt that I got one extra trip, one way, out of the five days,'' she said.
 The jump in gas prices have sparked a boom for organizations devoted to getting people out of their cars and into van pools. The offices of Rideshare in Windsor were swamped with calls over the Labor Day weekend. Connie Dice, vice president for business development, said that on a normal weekend Rideshare would get one or two e-mail messages or phone calls inquiring about its statewide commuter van service, Easy Street. The agency provides the van, and the riders share the driving and juggle the schedules, all for about $100 a person each month. Some of the vans go to New York City and other out-of-state destinations for Connecticut commuters. 
 ''Normally in a good quarter we're looking to start maybe seven vans,'' Ms. Dice said. ''We now have calls from 38 people interested in starting a service.''
 One of those new van pools could include Mrs. Werden. She commutes 40 miles round trip from Southbury to her job as a client services manager for Sirva Relocation in Shelton and is fed up with gas prices.
 ''As soon as it hit $2.75, $3 a gallon, it was just too much,'' Mrs. Werden said. Her gas bill was approaching $400 a month when she decided to act.
 ''I said, 'I just can't foresee spending this much money,''' she said.
 Mrs. Werden needs five other commuters to meet the minimum for a van, and she has lined up two co-workers so far. She is working with Easy Street and is posting fliers in the office building where she works to find the last three riders. 
 ''We can make it work,'' Mrs. Werden said.
 John Lyons, president of MetroPool, a transportation consulting firm in Stamford, has seen a surge in calls from commuters looking for other options.
 ''The intensity of the phone call is different,'' he said. ''It's much more urgent. People are saying, 'I can't deal with these prices anymore.'''
 Jean Stimolo, executive director of Rideworks Commuter Services in New Haven, has noticed that more and more companies are becoming involved in offering employees other ways to get to work.
 ''Some companies are being motivated by $3-a-gallon gas prices,'' Ms. Stimolo said. ''We've had a number of companies come to us,'' looking for van pools for their employees. 
 And statistics show Metro-North benefiting from the high gas prices. Dan Brucker, a spokesman, said a count of riders into Grand Central Terminal during the morning rush hour on Sept. 8 found an increase of 3 to 4 percent, more than double what Metro-North expected. There were an additional 2,500 riders spread evenly across the railroad's three lines.
 Mr. Brucker called the increase ''uncommon'' and said that it ''represents a significant jump in the number of customers.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A sign that points the way to relief for some strapped commuters.
 Metro-North stations like the one in Fairfield, above, are much busier because of higher gas prices. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (63%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%) Roads and Traffic; Commuting; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Car Pools; Railroads

PERSON: Greg Clarkin

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



405 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Sikorsky's Airship Enterprise (Of Sorts)

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
STRATFORD has long been known for building helicopters, but lately it has become a popular port of call for airships.
 In the last couple of years, an increasing amount of airships, otherwise known as blimps, decorated with advertisements have been using Sikorsky Memorial Airport in Stratford as a temporary base between flying over major sports events, concerts and beaches in the New York metropolitan area.
Kurt Sendlein, operations manager at Sikorsky, said the number of airports that have a large open fields that can accommodate the blimps is dwindling. 
 ''There are just fewer places for them now,'' he said.
 The Ameriquest Airship Freedom is 207 feet long, 60 feet tall and filled with 270,000 cubic meters of helium. It travels about 50 miles an hour at about 1,500 feet, though the craft can go as high as 9,000 feet.
 George Spyrou is president of Airship Management Services in Greenwich, which owns six airships worldwide, including the $5.5 million Ameriquest tethered at Sikorsky last week.
 Mr. Spyrou said that since the 2001 terrorist attacks, security concerns at airports closer to New York City have made landing spots more scarce. 
 ''We've have encountered more and more restrictions,'' he said. ''Sikorsky has become attractive to us because we're still in the region, but we can skirt the controlled airspace in New York most of the time.'' 
 Mr. Spyrou also said his airships have been used by the New York City police department for surveillance. 
 Mr. Sendlein said that airships visit Sikorsky Airport about 20 times a year and that the fees they generate amount to about $20,000 yearly. He said their presence also helps the area's economy. 
 ''Some have crews of close to 20 people that travel with them in trucks and vans and use local hotels restaurants and other businesses, and visit attractions in the area when they are not working,'' Mr. Sendlein said. 
 David Anderson, a member of the ground crew for the Hood airship, which left Sikorsky last Monday for a three-hour flight to Boston, said the topography near the airport also makes it ideal. 
 ''There aren't a lot of hills and trees that can create unstable air that can move the ship around a lot,'' he said.
 When a blimp is tethered at Sikorsky, one crew member is constantly on site, watching the ship and checking helium levels. 
 The blimps frequently cover 250 to 300 miles a day. The Ameriquest blimp holds eight passengers, and a pilot and co-pilot. 
 Katherine Board, 30, one of the pilots of the Hood ship, which holds four passengers and one pilot, also said Sikorsky is a good stopping point.
 ''There is a heavy population around here, so whoever is advertising on the ship gets great exposure,'' she said. ''And the people who run the airport are very good. They look out for us.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ameriquest Airship Freedom, 207 feet long and 60 feet tall, was recently tethered in an open field at Sikorsky Memorial Airport, left. Below, a worker inspecting the craft. (Photographs by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); HELICOPTERS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); CITIES (71%); TERRORISM (67%); POLICE FORCES (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) Airships; Sikorsky Memorial Airport (Stratford, Conn) ; Airports; Advertising and Marketing; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: Airship Management Services

PERSON: George Spyrou; Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (94%) Stratford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



406 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Conventional Wisdom

BYLINE: By Akhil Reed Amar. 
Akhil Reed Amar, professor of law at Yale, is the author of ''America's Constitution: A Biography.''

 BODY:
EVERY year, Sept. 17 to Sept. 23 is officially designated Constitution Week, celebrating the fact that during this stretch in 1787, the Philadelphia framers unveiled their handiwork. But the only thing that happened then and there was that a proposed Constitution signed by several dozen statesmen became public. 
 Only months later did the document actually become law, after Americans agreed to it in a series of unprecedented votes held from Georgia to New Hampshire. In that unsung ratification process, New York emerged as the decisive battleground state -- the Florida and Ohio of the 1780's. 
When the Philadelphia framers floated their proposal, they knew the difficulty of the task that lay ahead. Never in history had so many people been allowed to vote on the basic ground rules of government. Even the most democratic of ancient Greek constitutions had been handed down from on high by individuals -- Athens's Solon and Sparta's Lycurgus -- rather than voted on by the citizenry. In America, ordinary citizens had not been invited to ratify the Declaration of Independence or the various state constitutions written in 1776 or the continental Articles of Confederation drafted in 1777. 
 In dramatic contrast, the 1787 Philadelphia proposal by its own terms would not go into effect unless at least nine out of 13 state conventions said yes. Significant too, was the state-by-state adoption of special election rules enabling ratification conventions to represent the people in an especially democratic manner. New York led the way, temporarily waiving its usual requirement that voters had to own a certain amount of property and, for the first time in its history, allowing all free male adult citizens to select convention delegates. 
 New York also let all freemen serve as convention delegates, regardless of whether they met the usual property requirements for serving in the State Senate. Of course by modern standards, even this voting base, which excluded slaves and women, was too narrow. Yet it was far broader than anything previously seen in New York -- or in most other places, for that matter -- and thus set a precedent for further voting expansions in later years. 
 New York also led the way in deciding the Constitution's fate and clarifying its central meaning. In mid-June 1788, a full nine months after its conception at Philadelphia, the Constitution was still struggling to be born. Eight states had said yes, one shy of the mark. Then, New Hampshire and Virginia voted their approval -- enough to put the document in operation, but only among the states that ratified it. At this point, all eyes turned to Poughkeepsie, where New York's ratifying convention was being held and where the Constitution's anti-Federalist opponents initially held a commanding lead. Without the acquiescence of New York -- with its critical harbors, rivers and landmass -- could the Philadelphia blueprint really work as planned? 
 In late July, the Poughkeepsie convention finally said yes, by a vote of 30 to 27. A switch of only two votes would have reversed the outcome. 
 With New York now safely on board, the document's future was assured. True, Rhode Island and North Carolina had yet to say yes, but neither state was militarily nor economically indispensable. Thus the Constitution's more perfect union initially went into effect without the two stragglers; when George Washington took his oath of office in early 1789, he did so as president of the 11 United States.
 But exactly how were these states united? Did a state that said yes in the 1780's retain the right to unilaterally say no later on, and thereby secede? If not, why not?
 Once again, it was in New York that the answer emerged most emphatically. At the outset of the Poughkeepsie convention, anti-Federalists held a strong majority. The tide turned when word arrived that New Hampshire and Virginia had said yes to the Constitution, at which point anti-Federalists proposed a compromise: they would vote to ratify, but if the new federal government failed to embrace various reforms that they favored, ''there should be reserved to the state of New York a right to withdraw herself from the union after a certain number of years.''
 At the risk of alienating swing voters and losing on the ultimate ratification vote, Federalists emphatically opposed the compromise. In doing so, they made clear to everyone -- in New York and in the 12 other states where people were following the New York contest with interest -- that the Constitution did not permit unilateral state secession. Alexander Hamilton read aloud a letter at the Poughkeepsie convention that he had received from James Madison stating that ''the Constitution requires an adoption in toto, and for ever.'' Hamilton and John Jay then added their own words, which the New York press promptly reprinted: ''a reservation of a right to withdraw'' was ''inconsistent with the Constitution, and was no ratification.'' 
 Thus, it was New York where the document became an irresistible reality and where its central meaning -- one nation, democratic and indivisible -- emerged with crystal clarity. Move over, Philadelphia. New York, too, deserves credit this week as Americans commemorate our Constitution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); ELECTION LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); CLASSICS (74%); POLITICS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (52%) United States Politics and Government; Constitutions

PERSON: Akhil Reed Amar

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



407 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Looking For a House And a Turret

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN. 
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A VICTORIAN mansion -- that's the kind of home Cynthia von Buhler was holding out for. Was it possible?
 It was certainly worth a try. Ms. von Buhler would stay up late, scrutinizing online listings for grand historic homes, and searching the Craigslist Web site for words like ''mansion.''
 ''Believe it or not, there are some,'' she said.
 A Victorian mansion suits her. She and her former husband owned one in Boston, where they lived with many pets -- cats, birds and even rats -- that she uses as models for her artwork. Ms. von Buhler, an illustrator and multimedia artist, is of some renown in Boston, where a larger-than-life photograph of her was posted for several months earlier this year on a highway billboard advertising the Calendar section of The Boston Globe. 
 Nearly four years ago, in the midst of a divorce, she moved to Manhattan's meatpacking district. She was living in a gigantic loft that was also used as a gallery and event space when she went online and met Russell Farhang, a jazz violinist with a day job in technology management.
 Eventually, they spent most of their time at his place, a big one-bedroom rental in Park Slope, Brooklyn. It wasn't in great shape, but it was only $950 a month and, unlike the loft, didn't have strangers constantly traipsing through.
 But Ms. von Buhler, 40, dreamed of a bigger place, where she could fit all of her artwork and animals, and where they could settle long term. Mr. Farhang, 31, was starting to feel that buying was financially prudent.
 ''I am risk-averse and cautious, whereas Cynthia is completely impulsive, so we offset each other well,'' he said. ''She was saying, 'Let's go get something now.' I was saying, 'I would like to wait a year.' I was afraid of what it would mean to go from paying $950 a month to $4,000 all of a sudden.''
 Both got their way. They started hunting, but it took a year to find a place that made them truly happy.
 They initially thought of buying a two-bedroom apartment in a Brooklyn brownstone, but Mr. Farhang decided they were several years too late. ''Brooklyn is over from a buying perspective,'' he said. ''It seemed sad to buy a place for $400,000 to $500,000 that was smaller than the one we were renting for $950.'' 
 They pored over brownstoner.com, a favorite Web site, which decried inflation in Brooklyn and confirmed their own observations on price.
 ''I would get discouraged and say, 'Let's forget it and in the meantime we will save every penny,''' Mr. Farhang said. ''But Cynthia would take the computer into the other room and house hunt for hours, and in the morning there would be all these e-mails waiting for me.'' 
 Another favorite Web site, forgotten-ny.com, introduced them to places they had never heard of. Often, on weekends, the two would pick a neighborhood that sounded interesting and drive out, just to see. Ms. von Buhler swooned over the Victorian mansions in Ditmas Park. They identified the houses they liked by color -- pink, blue, green.
 But all were overpriced or in grave disrepair. The pink house, at more than $900,000, was appraised for much less. The blue house, at almost $1 million, was far from the subway. The green house, at around $800,000, was not just run-down but had ''what appeared to be drug-addicted squatters living there intermittently,'' Mr. Farhang said.
 By the new year, they started reading about the encroachment of Manhattan megabrokers into Ditmas Park, and noticed that prices were soaring.
 ''When we started looking, nobody was selling,'' Ms. von Buhler said. ''We weren't seeing the really gorgeous houses but the smaller versions that were not architecturally unique.'' Now, houses that seemed overpriced at $850,000 were listed for more than $1 million.
 By now, though, even Mr. Farhang was sold on the idea of a mansion. ''We realized it might be worth it to get something really big and extraordinary'' and move yet farther out, he said. They hoped to spend $700,000 to $800,000, or $1 million at the very most.
 Farther out included Jersey City, where they fell for a Victorian mansion, all Gothic splendor, on Reservoir Avenue. In the filthy basement, they found three ill feral kittens. ''We couldn't leave them there to die, so we gathered them up, with great difficulty,'' Mr. Farhang said. In the clutter, they even found a cat carrier. They stuffed the kittens inside and took them home.
 Later, the owner said the house was on a double lot, so he was selling it without the driveway and garage. He would be erecting a small building on the lot next door, blocking the view of Manhattan.
 ''I loved that house,'' Ms. von Buhler said. ''It needed a lot of work but I was willing to do that. I like saving houses just like I like saving cats.'' They haggled over the $800,000 price, but the owner wouldn't budge. ''It was heartbreaking,'' she said. ''Russell had more resilience. He could see something and separate himself from it. He was the voice of reason, which was really necessary.''
 When they found a two-family Victorian in Jersey City, they quickly offered the $800,000 asking price. ''We didn't want to lose it, so infected were we by real-estate-panic hysteria,'' Mr. Farhang said. And they liked the agent, who was sweet and soft-spoken and said she lived down the street.
 But they didn't like her enough to want her living in their house. Only when they read the contract did they see that the agent lived in the ground-floor apartment -- and, as a condition of the sale, would live there indefinitely for a rent of $700. The current owner, an elderly woman, would also be allowed to stay.
 ''Why would we buy the house if there were still going to be people in it?'' Mr. Farhang said. ''We made it clear we wanted to live there. The whole thing was sour. I became more and more hateful and angry at the whole process. We realized there was a seamy underside during this kind of market.'' 
 And then, one day, they noticed Staten Island. ''It was like we opened up a present we had forgotten about,'' Mr. Farhang said. So off they went. 
 They saw a few houses with Tina Sirico, an agent at Sari Kingsley Real Estate in New Dorp. The houses in Staten Island seemed beautiful and well-kept, and much cheaper than houses elsewhere. They were surprised and thrilled, especially when they visited a four-story, 2,500-square-foot Mediterranean-style villa, with a curved staircase inside and a lush garden outside. It looked like a castle. The house, in the St. George section, was listed at $659,000. 
 Trying to contain their excitement, they waited until that evening to place their bid. They bought the house for $655,000.
 According to the sellers, Laura Drew Kelly and Michael Kelly, who moved to Dover, Del., the house was built around 1929 by a Spanish teacher from Spain, who wanted a home reminiscent of his country.
 Ms. von Buhler and Mr. Farhang moved in last month, ceding the Park Slope place to Ms. von Buhler's youngest sister, Christina Carrozza, and her new husband, Brian D'Alessandro. 
 In Staten Island, they have found an ideal combination of house, location and price, said Mr. Farhang, who commutes by ferry. The house isn't a Victorian, like every other house Ms. von Buhler loved, but it had a turret. The octagonal room inside is for guests. They hope to persuade more of their friends to visit.
 To that end, the two are creating a Staten Island Web site, prodigalborough.com. ''Because of the real estate crunch, Staten Island is being welcomed back to the fold and being recognized as an underrated and extraordinary place to live,'' Mr. Farhang said. ''Everyplace else has a cool Web presence, but there is no hipster stuff for Staten Island -- just Yellow Page listings.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Russell Farhang and Cynthia von Buhler, with three of their eight cats (Photo by Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Swooning over the mansions in Ditmas Park, Brooklyn
Willing to do some work on Reservoir Avenue in Jersey City
The castle on the hill, in St. George, Staten Island
Mr. Farhang and Ms. von Buhler in their 2,500-square-foot house (Photos by left, Seth Wenig for The New York Times
second from left, Timothy Ivy for The New York Times
 two at right, Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CATS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); ANIMALS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (55%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



408 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Hartford's New Centerpiece 

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: Hartford 

 BODY:
IN 1997, a group of Hartford insurance and utility executives proposed an ambitious -- some would say quixotic -- 33-acre mixed-use project for Hartford, then mired in a long and deep recession. It was to be named Adriaen's Landing, for an obscure Dutch explorer, Adriaen Block, who sailed up the Connecticut River and disembarked at the site in 1611.
 The idea was picked up a year later by Gov. John G. Rowland and the Legislature, which committed up to $1 billion for property acquisition, remediation and construction of a 540,000-square-foot convention center and 2,556-car parking structure to be owned by the state, as well as infrastructure improvements like utilities and landscaping. 
Today, the project has used about $850 million of the $1 billion, and two major components have had their grand openings in recent months. 
 On Aug. 25, the 22-story Marriott Hotel drew the usual array of state and local officials to its opening ceremonies. Earlier, on June 5, the adjoining Connecticut Convention Center opened.
 Now the hotel, convention center and landscaping that amounts to a public park have become the centerpiece of a new business and tourist destination on Columbus Boulevard, just off Exit 29A of Interstate 91, overlooking the Connecticut River. 
 The $150 million 409-room limestone hotel has a traditional appearance on the outside, but its interior is boldly colorful and appointed with vibrant wall finishes and patterned carpets. The circular lobby has cadmium yellow walls sprinkled with fanciful white stars, and the floor is a marble mosaic. Vivo, a spacious 180-seat Tuscan restaurant, has a semi-open kitchen and a color scheme of deep reds and dark brown woods; a royal blue and cream-colored bar called Crush can seat 110 at the bar and in semicircular banquettes; and next to the lobby is a Starbucks cybercafe and lounge with a plasma television and a fireplace. 
 A pool, a whirlpool tub accommodating up to eight people and a fitness center featuring Precor equipment occupy the 22nd floor, and eight suites ranging from $400 to $850 a night are on Floors 20 and 21. Rates for the regular rooms, on Floors 2 through 19, start at around $189.
 The hotel is designed to accommodate an addition -- if built, it would bring the number of rooms to 700 -- and the convention center can also be enlarged by another 200,000 square feet. Consumer demand has so far exceeded expectations, but decisions on expanding would depend on further evidence that the additional space is actually needed.
 Initial hotel occupancy is at 50 percent and rising. Bookings for 38,000 nights have been confirmed through 2006. The hotel has 21,800 square feet of banquet, meeting and ballroom space.
 Confirmed bookings at the convention center extend into 2010, with more than 250 events through June of 2006. ''Our first contract was signed in 2002,'' said Ben Seidel, the general manager, ''responding to ads in trade magazines around the country.'' Among other things, the advertisements noted that the center is within a 30-minute drive of 30 golf courses. 
 Reservations for both buildings are coming from organizations that in the past have had meetings in Providence, Charlotte, Pittsburgh and Philadelphia and that never gave Hartford a glance until now.
 Ed Dombroskas, tourism director at the Connecticut Commission of Culture and Tourism, said a big selling point ''is the unique combination of hotel and convention center'' in close proximity. ''Conventions by their very nature are always looking for adjacent hotels,'' he said. 
 Still to be built are the five-story 140,000-square-foot Connecticut Center for Science and Exploration, designed by Cesar Pelli, which is set to break ground on Oct. 21. This facility will have a museum aimed mainly at students in Grades 4 to 12, and its programs will tie in with the science curriculum in Hartford schools. 
 Later, some 200 condominium units and 100,000 square feet of stores, restaurants and entertainment venues covering six and a half acres are to be developed privately by the H.B. Nitkin Group of Greenwich. Robert A.M. Stern will be the master planner of Nitkin's projects, which are to occupy the west side of the Adriaen's Landing site. 
 The overall master planner and builder for Adriaen's Landing is Len Wolman, a sandy-haired 50-year-old developer who immigrated in 1976 and still speaks with a soft South African accent. He is chairman of the Waterford Group and its five subsidiaries, based in Waterford, Conn. 
 He and his brother Mark, 47, who is president, took over the existing Waterford Company, which had a single hotel, in 1986. Since then, they have built a $2 billion portfolio of 29 hotels in 10 states, in alliances with the Marriott, Holiday Inn, Radisson and Sheraton hotel chains. 
 They also build and manage convention properties and gaming resorts, including the Mohegan Sun in Uncasville, Conn. The brothers cut their developers' teeth transforming their parents' farm outside Johannesburg into a modest housing enclave with a convenience store. 
 Len Wolman recalled that in 1998 ''the governor called us and asked us to get involved in Adriaen's Landing; we had had contact with him on the Mohegan Sun project.'' The state's commitment to spend enormous sums persuaded him to get involved, especially as ''there is the resurgence around the country'' of developments in downtown locations.
 He retains ownership of the hotel, to which his company contributed $31.5 million, and Waterford will manage the entire complex. 
 The city stands to benefit from the new developments through so-called tax fixing, said Lee Erdman, the city manager. This requires payments in lieu of taxes by the convention center, which because of its state ownership would normally be exempt from property taxes. Calculated at 38 percent of the going rate for a for-profit property of this size, it will pay $1.9 million in 2005 and $2.3 million in 2006. The Marriott will pay $240,779 this year and $185,000 next year, when a long-term formula takes effect that is based on 1 percent of estimated annual gross revenues. 
 These are not insignificant amounts in Hartford, which is burdened with a collection of tax-exempt colleges, hospitals and state and municipal offices. Such tax-exempt properties have an estimated value in excess of $1.9 billion, out of total properties citywide of $3 billion. Referring to decades of decline in the value of most commercial, business and personal property, Mr. Erdman said, ''We have turned the corner, but it's going to be a long road.'' 
 At the far end of the area to be developed by the Nitkin Group, the Hartford Times building has been demolished, except for its imposing stone facade.
 The Wadsworth Atheneum, America's oldest art museum, which is across Prospect Street, will build a 54,000-square-foot annex that incorporates the facade. It will hold some of the museum's administrative offices and storage, meeting and educational space, food service and great art on the walls, but no galleries.


GRAPHIC: Photo: PART OF A $1 BILLION PLAN -- Len Wolman, master planner for Adriaen's Landing, in front of the 22-story Marriott hotel and the 540,000-square-foot convention center. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (73%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (66%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (61%); LOBBYING (58%); RECESSION (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); TOURISM (52%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



409 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: September 18, 2005

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	1	POLAR SHIFT, by Clive Cussler with Paul Kemprecos. (Putnam, $26.95.) Kurt Austin must contend with the leader of an antiglobalization group who possesses technology that has the potential to destroy all of humanity.		 	 	 	2	3	12	THE HISTORIAN, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A young woman's quest to learn the truth about her father's life and her mother's death involves research into Vlad the Impaler and Dracula. 		 	 	 	3		1	SLOW BURN, by Julie Garwood. (Ballantine, $25.95.) Terrible mishaps befall a successful businesswoman in Charleston, S.C.		 	 	 	4	2	129	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	5	1	2	POINT BLANK, by Catherine Coulter. (Putnam, $25.95.) Dillon Savich and Lacey Sherlock -- F.B.I. agents as well as husband and wife -- pursue a violent couple.		 	 	 	6	4	3	CHILL FACTOR, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A successful magazine editor is trapped in her remote cabin with a man believed to be a serial killer.		 	 	 	7	5	8	LIFEGUARD, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $26.95.) Things go awry when a lifeguard at a Florida resort agrees to take part in a heist.		 	 	 	8	8	2	WITHOUT MERCY, by Jack Higgins. (Putnam, $25.95.) An American intelligence agent and his British counterpart swear vengeance against an international terror ring that has killed one of their number.		 	 	 	9	9	4	SWEETWATER CREEK, by Anne Rivers Siddons. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A troubled debutante's arrival at a Lowcountry plantation disrupts the world of the owner's motherless 12-year-old daughter.		 	 	 	10*		1	THE WIDOW OF THE SOUTH, by Robert Hicks. (Warner, $24.95.) After the Battle of Franklin in 1864, a Tennessee woman turns over her plantation to Confederate troops for use as a hospital -- and also as a cemetery.		 	 	 	11	7	2	VANISH, by Tess Gerritsen. (Ballantine, $24.95.) A hospital patient takes hostages, among them a detective who is about to give birth, to make a political point.		 	 	 	12		1	SPELL OF THE HIGHLANDER, by Karen Marie Moning. (Delacorte, $18.) In this fantasy romance, an archaeology student finds herself attracted to a seductive man who's been trapped inside a mirror since the eighth century.		 	 	 	13	12	7	THE UNDOMESTIC GODDESS, by Sophie Kinsella. (Dial, $23.) At her wit's end, a high-powered attorney decamps from London and winds up as an unqualified housekeeper in the middle of nowhere.		 	 	 	14	6	2	TYRANNOSAUR CANYON, by Douglas Preston. (Forge, $24.95.) The hunt for the perfectly preserved skeleton of a Tyrannosaurus rex in New Mexico turns deadly.		 	 	 	15	11	22	THE MERMAID CHAIR, by Sue Monk Kidd. (Viking, $24.95.) On Egret Island, off the coast of South Carolina, a married woman is strongly attracted to a monk.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	2	22	1	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 	2	1	15	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 		 	 	 	3	4	21	FREAKONOMICs, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	4	7	34	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	5	5	9	100 PEOPLE WHO ARE SCREWING UP AMERICA, by Bernard Goldberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The author of ''Bias'' takes aim at ''Hollywood blowhards,'' ''America bashers,'' rappers and others.		 	 	 	6	3	5	THE FAIRTAX BOOK, by Neal Boortz and John Linder. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A radio talk show host and a United States congressman call for the abolishment of the federal income tax and the I.R.S.		 	 	 	7	6	6	NEW RULES, by Bill Maher. (Rodale, $24.95.) The comedian and host of ''Real Time With Bill Maher'' takes on everyone from President Bush to Bob Dylan.		 	 	 	8	8	10	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all memoir by a dancer and actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	9	10	4	FROM PIECES TO WEIGHT, by 50 Cent. (MTV Books/ Pocket Books, $23.) The rapper's reflections on his youthful experience as a drug dealer and its continuing effect on his life.		 	 	 	10	9	25	ON BULL, by Harry G. Frankfurt. (Princeton University, $9.95.) A philosopher attempts a theoretical understanding of a ''vast and amorphous'' phenomenon.		 	 	 	11	12	3	inside the mind of scott peterson, by Keith Ablow. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) Ablow, a forensic psychiatrist and frequent Court TV guest, analyzes the convicted murderer's troubled identity.		 	 	 	12	11	2	1491, by Charles C. Mann. (Knopf, $30.) New archaeological research about American Indians before Columbus.		 	 	 	13		33	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) A historical investigation into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	 	3	14	14	THE LAST TRUE STORY I'LL EVER TELL, by John Crawford. (Riverhead, $23.95.) The daily life of a young soldier in Iraq, told by a Florida National Guardsman.		 	 	 	15*		1	WILD DUCKS FLYING BACKWARD, by Tom Robbins. (Bantam, $25.) A collection of short writings by the author of ''Even Cowgirls Get the Blues.''		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Sept. 3, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest
THE PAINTED DRUM, by Louise Erdrich. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A ceremonial drum is magically linked to children and death in Erdrich's latest novel set among the Ojibwa.
 JERRY ENGELS, by Thomas Rogers. (Handsel, $23.) Whatever happens to the namesake of this novel, he feels good about it. A dangerous trait.
 FIVE FAMILIES: The Rise, Decline, and Resurgence of America's Most Powerful Mafia Empires, by Selwyn Raab. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $29.95.) A colorful history of thuggery. 
 THEATRE OF FISH: Travels Through Newfoundland and Labrador, by John Gimlette. (Knopf, $25.) A journey through the barren lands whose chief resource, fish, has departed. 
 TOOTH AND CLAW, by T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Viking, $25.95.) In this story collection, Boyle exposes silly folk to forces that gobble them up. 
 LITTLE CHAPEL ON THE RIVER: A Pub, a Town and the Search for What Matters Most, by Gwendolyn Bounds. (Morrow, $23.95.) Author finds peace in Irish bar 50 miles up the Hudson.
 THE TENDER BAR: A Memoir, by J. R. Moehringer. (Hyperion, $23.95.) Author finds adoptive family in Long Island bar (now defunct). 
 HENRY ADAMS AND THE MAKING OF AMERICA, by Garry Wills. (Houghton Mifflin, $30.) Arguing that Adams's histories have been poorly understood, Wills sees him as a champion of Jefferson and democracy. 
 PORNIFIED: How Pornography Is Transforming Our Lives, Our Relationships, and Our Families, by Pamela Paul. (Times Books/Holt, $25.) Paul finds that increased supply has raised demand and that Internet porn is often violent.
 MADE IN DETROIT: A South of 8-Mile Memoir, by Paul Clemens. (Doubleday, $23.95.) Clemens (born in 1973) recalls growing up working-class white in a black city losing both people and jobs.
 THE KNIFE MAN: The Extraordinary Life and Times of John Hunter, Father of Modern Surgery, by Wendy Moore. (Broadway, $26.) A scientist ahead of his time, except in his ethics.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); WOMEN (77%); MURDER (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); HOMICIDE (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); HOSTAGE TAKING (63%); ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (79%); JAMES PATTERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



410 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Paperback Row; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 713 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:
UP FROM ZERO: Politics, Architecture, and the Rebuilding of New York, by Paul Goldberger. (Random House, $14.95.) ''Up From Zero'' is a vivid tale of the long, complex and still unfinished struggle over what should go up in the place of the World Trade Center. Goldberger, a Pulitzer Prize-winning architecture critic, recounts the trade center's emergence in Lower Manhattan; describes three years of proposals and counterproposals for rebuilding the 16-acre site; and introduces the full cast of politicians, developers, architects and city planners competing to shape ''the most challenging urban-design problem of the 21st century.''

A COMPLICATED KINDNESS, by Miriam Toews. (Counterpoint, $13.95.) Toews's third novel is a misfit's coming-of-age story that takes place in the 1970's and 80's in a claustrophobic Mennonite community in rural Manitoba. In a series of flashbacks, her cocky, brooding 16-year-old narrator, Nomi, revisits moments in the breakdown of her relationship with her family and of her family's relationship with the citizens of their town.

HARD LINE: Life and Death on the U.S.-Mexico Border, by Ken Ellingwood. (Vintage, $14.) Ellingwood, a Los Angeles Times correspondent, follows the dangerous traffic of drugs and illegal immigrants across the 1,952-mile border, and examines the impact of Operation Gatekeeper -- America's effort to seal off sections of the border -- on migrant workers, ranchers and Border Patrol agents.

HAD A GOOD TIME: Stories From American Postcards, by Robert Olen Butler. (Grove, $13.) Drawing from the images and scrawled messages in his collection of early-20th-century picture postcards, Butler conjures 15 short stories that portray, and often parody, Americana.

JEROME ROBBINS: His Life, His Theater, His Dance, by Deborah Jowitt. (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) Born Jerome Wilson Rabinowitz, Robbins (1918-98) emerged as a Broadway dancer in 1943-44, and went on to choreograph and often direct an amazing series of shows: ''Peter Pan'' (1954), ''Bells Are Ringing'' (1956), ''West Side Story'' (1957), ''Gypsy'' (1959), ''Funny Girl'' and ''Fiddler on the Roof'' (both 1964). Jowitt, a dance critic at The Village Voice, chronicles Robbins's career, touching on his bisexuality, ambivalence about his Jewish heritage and appearance before the House Un-American Activities Committee in the 1950's.

THE LONG MEADOW: Poems, by Vijay Seshadri. (Graywolf, $14.) Seshadri's engaging second collection ranges from Russian Church history to the Three Little Pigs and includes a prose memoir of several pages, in which the author uses his father's obsession with the Civil War to explore the immigrant experience.

RUNNING ON EMPTY: How the Democratic and Republican Parties Are Bankrupting Our Future and What Americans Can Do About It, by Peter G. Peterson. (Picador, $15.) A successful investment banker and former secretary of commerce, Peterson blames all sides for our bleak fiscal future, brought on, he argues, by undertaxing, overspending and recklessly promising government benefits that cannot be financed.

JONATHAN STRANGE & MR. NORRELL, by Susanna Clarke. (Bloomsbury, $15.95.) Clarke's lively literary fantasy involves a Yorkshire magician named Gilbert Norrell who arrives in London in 1806 to rehabilitate English magic. Enter Jonathan Strange -- young, handsome and impetuous -- who arranges to study with Mr. Norrell. Gradually Strange sets himself up as Norrell's rival and threatens to topple all that his mentor has achieved. ''Clarke's imagination is prodigious, her pacing is masterly and she knows how to employ dry humor in the service of majesty,'' Gregory Maguire wrote in the Book Review.

TALES TO ASTONISH: Jack Kirby, Stan Lee, and the American Comic Book Revolution, by Ronin Ro. (Bloomsbury, $14.95.) Ro's book is a crisp primer on the origins of the comic-book industry and the partnership that in the 1960's established the superhero genre's template, creating the Hulk, the Fantastic Four and the X-Men.

HERE KITTY KITTY, by Libaire Jardine. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $13.95.) There are glittering descriptions of New York life in this dark and tender first novel, in which a Tribeca restaurant manager finally bottoms out on drugs and drink, and begins a long struggle to take care of herself. Ihsan Taylor


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Philip Friedman
 Sigrid Estrada)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); THEATER (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); BORDER CONTROL (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); CHOREOGRAPHY (67%); DANCE (67%); MIGRANT WORKERS (65%); DANCERS (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (54%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (52%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



411 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Makeover

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA JACOBS. 
Alexandra Jacobs is an editor at The New York Observer.

 BODY:
BAIT AND SWITCH
 The (Futile) Pursuit of the American Dream.
 By Barbara Ehrenreich.
 237 pp. Metropolitan Books/
 Henry Holt & Company. $24.
The esteemed journalist Barbara Ehrenreich has made her name as a stalwart critic of capitalism, yet her new book, the latest of a baker's dozen on her resume, embodies one of that economic system's central tenets. It's a spinoff, a sequel, an attempted variation on a successful theme. 
 That previous success was an outraged treatise called ''Nickel and Dimed,'' wherein Ehrenreich -- whose background and education (a B.A. from Reed College and a Ph.D. from Rockefeller University) situate her firmly in the upper-middle class -- related how she hid her identity and took a succession of low-paying jobs to examine firsthand how the other half survives in America. Shakily, very shakily, was her predictable but nonetheless worthy conclusion. Though it drew ire from some real-life wage slaves, ''Nickel and Dimed'' was generally heaped with critical praise (Studs Terkel, for one, welcomed it with a ''Bravo!''). Published early in the somber year of 2001, the book spent nearly two years on the best-seller list, and still makes the occasional appearance there.
 This time, Ehrenreich decided to perform a similar undercover experiment on a different, and slightly less remote, tax bracket: American white-collar workers, corporate functionaries -- the kind of people she'd hitherto glimpsed only on airplanes, where, she notes with characteristic dryness, ''they study books on 'leadership,' fiddle with spreadsheets on their laptops, or fall asleep over biographies of the founding fathers.'' Think midlevel managers like the pointy-haired boss in Scott Adams's comic strip ''Dilbert,'' or Steve Carell's Michael Scott in the stateside remake of the BBC television program ''The Office'' -- pieces of pop culture with which Ehrenreich, who bemoans the loss of literary paper-pusher archetypes like 1955's ''Man in the Gray Flannel Suit,'' seems unacquainted. These are people trapped in a sort of power sandwich between the hapless, low-paid, entry-level drones under their immediate supervision, and the faceless, remote, overcompensated chief executives they aim to please; they are people who believe in the system, even though they're not necessarily rewarded by it. 
 Indeed, as Ehrenreich indicates, a growing number of the American unemployed are white-collar professionals who have been downsized, to use the still-popular parlance of the recessionary 1990's. A woman who can readily summon the works of Robert Lowell and Thomas Pynchon to underscore a point, she is aghast at this kind of business jargon, a positive blizzard of which she encounters during the course of her project -- words and phrases like ''takeaway,'' ''skill set,'' ''due diligence'' and ''in real time.'' It appears, though, that a bit of it did seep into her subconscious (''I would do everything possible to land a job,'' she writes in her introduction, ''utilizing whatever books, Web sites, and businesses that I could find offering guidance to job seekers''). Utilizing -- arrrgh! 
 As during the research for ''Nickel and Dimed,'' when she cushioned her situation with an ever-ready car and an emergency A.T.M. card, Ehrenreich goes only semi-gonzo in ''Bait and Switch.'' She chooses to pursue a position in public relations -- ''journalism's evil twin'' -- reasoning that it will require much the same ''skill set'' that a published writer has. But finding a job proves more difficult than it was in the previous book, where she was filling out an application form one minute and donning a Wal-Mart smock the next. Unfortunately, this prolonged search, conducted partly in a snappy new beige Ann Taylor pantsuit, also makes for a less dramatic narrative than that of a renowned essayist scrubbing toilets. This time around, Ehrenreich gets a Social Security card in her maiden name, Alexander; submits to the ministrations of a perky career coach named Kimberly; repeatedly revises her resume; and gets a Color Me Beautiful-style image consultation. ''What I had not understood is that to become an object, a thing, you must first go through a kind of death,'' she remarks, gazing at her painted self in the mirror -- shades of Simone de Beauvoir. Her fear of being exposed as a fraud in this world proves unfounded; for, it turns out, all of its denizens wear some form of protective camouflage.
 Much of ''Bait and Switch'' amounts to nothing more than annotated minutes of group networking sessions and job fairs, the kind that tend to take place in dismal, anodyne hotel conference chambers, with posturing attendees wearing plastic nametags and scrabbling for stale danishes along with gainful employment. Unsurprisingly, these events prove excruciating for Ehrenreich -- and by extension, the reader. ''It occurs to me that much of my job search so far has involved sitting in windowless rooms while someone -- most commonly a white male in his 50's or 60's -- stands at the front testifying, preaching, exhorting or coaching,'' she notes. The lectures, the jargon-clogged meetings, the fruitless hours spent at home working the phone and Googling at a computer -- these supposedly novel settings are not quite distinct enough from the author's normal turf to offer conviction that she is embarking on a true reporting adventure. Shifting restlessly in her seat, Ehrenreich seems to have contracted a case of metaphysical hemorrhoids: ''While blue-collar workers invite injury and exhaustion through physical exertion, white-collar workers endure the sometimes equally painful results of immobility,'' she sighs. ''At the moment, I'd rather be waitressing.''
 After months of these dull ''data drops,'' during which she discovers the shortcomings of her curriculum vitae (having an unexplained ''gap'' is a serious infraction, as is working at the Gap), Ehrenreich finally gets a couple of freelance, non-P.R. job offers: from Aflac, the insurance company known for its quacking duck spokesmodel, and Mary Kay, the cosmetics concern that famously offers its best saleswomen pink Cadillacs. What wouldn't one give to see Barbara Ehrenreich sailing down the highway in a pink Cadillac? But she swats them away, preferring to focus on the hypocrisies of the career coaches and image consultants, a cottage industry that has sprung up to train white-collar workers ''in transition'' -- a cottage industry, in fairness, mostly composed of white-collar workers ''in transition'' themselves. These, apparently, are the true bait-and-switchers of the title, selling vocational succor but offering gibberish and pablum.
 The problem is that the author, so comfortable as a champion of the disenfranchised, evinces such palpable disdain for this flawed but enterprising milieu. ''The dislike is reaching hatelike dimensions,'' she writes of poor Kimberly, the career coach. ''She represents something about the corporate world that repels me, some deep coldness masked as relentless cheerfulness.'' Toward Patrick, who runs a sad-sack motivational boot camp, she can muster nothing but ''pity . . . contempt for his entire profession.'' A Christian career ministry, which surely gives some poor souls solace, is dismissed as ''a realm drained of all transcendence and beauty.'' And her striving seminar tablemates are simply pronounced ''Fools!'' The book's balance sheet winds up tilting more sardonic than sympathetic -- and at the end of the day, as it were, it is we who feel vaguely swindled. Alas, as with New Coke, this derivative of a proven formula falls flat.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Scott Galley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); BESTSELLERS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: STEVE CARELL (50%) Alexandra Jacobs; Barbara Ehrenreich

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



412 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Money Changes Everything

BYLINE: By ALAN WOLFE. 
Alan Wolfe, the author of ''One Nation, After All,'' is the director of the Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life at Boston College.

 BODY:
Class Matters
 By Correspondents of
 The New York Times.
 Introduction by Bill Keller.
 Illustrated. 268 pp. Times Books/Henry Holt & Company. 
 Paper, $14.
If Horatio Alger were writing today, his heroine would be a woman named Angela Whitiker. Whitiker first came to the attention of New York Times readers in 1993, when the reporter Isabel Wilkerson wrote about her son Nicholas, then 10, and his struggle to avoid the gangs of urban Chicago. Twelve years later, Wilkerson returned to the Whitiker family as part of the paper's series on class in America, now published in book form as ''Class Matters.'' 
 Nicholas, it turns out, failed to do much with his life. But his mother succeeded beyond almost anyone's dreams, including her own. Thirty-eight, with six kids and an additional stepchild, she left behind the notorious Robert Taylor Homes of her past to earn $83,000 a year as a registered nurse. Her income, impressive as it sounds, leaves little over for luxury, but she is confident that at least some of her children will have a head start in securing a position in the middle class.
 Jeff Martinelli's life went in the other direction. Bypassing college for a well-paying job at Kaiser Aluminum as a 20-year-old, Martinelli stayed with the company for nearly 30 years, until the Spokane, Wash., plant where he worked closed down in 2001. Without a college credential, he did not have much chance of finding comparable work, and ended up exterminating bugs in people's homes at half the $60,000 salary he earned at Kaiser. Although he feels lucky to have a job at all, he knows that his son, Caleb, is unlikely to taste the joys of middle-class status that his father once knew.
 Class (and with it, race) will always be with us; not even the most Candide-like economist could deny that your chances of surviving Hurricane Katrina depended on whether you had sufficient financial resources to own a car. True, some will always move up as others move down, although in recent years Americans, who pride themselves on their upward mobility, have experienced a considerable amount of the downward variety. ''Class Matters'' aims to do what novelists like Dreiser and Fitzgerald and satirists like Veblen once did: to get us thinking about the ways in which money and social status influence who we are. 
 So the stories told here bring the lives of actual people to bear on statistics and social science theorizing. Anthony DePalma recounts the intertwined tale of two immigrants, John Zannikos and Juan Manuel Peralta. They shared more than a first name; both arrived illegally in the United States, spoke little English and were determined to make a better life for themselves than they would have had in Greece or Mexico. But Zannikos came in 1953, at the start of the long postwar boom, while Peralta crossed the border in 1990 in a more difficult economy. Peralta worked in one of Zannikos's diners until his temper got the better of him. ''To him,'' DePalma writes, ''jobs are interchangeable -- just as he is to the jobs. If he cannot find work as a grillman, he will bus tables. Or wash dishes. If not at one diner, then at another.''
 Karl Marx told us that society would split into two classes; today we have as many as there are yogurts. Consider the many flavors of the rich. Only in America -- more properly only on ''nature's ultimate gated community,'' as Geraldine Fabrikant describes Nantucket -- can old-money aristocrats become objects of sympathy. It may not be an American tragedy to witness a tycoon buying up the six-bedroom manse you inherited from your grandparents to make space for his wine cellar, but in such ways do the ultrarich differ from the merely rich. 
 You cannot tell the richer class from the middle class by what its members wear, drive or eat. Godiva chocolates are available to the financially strapped secretary on her way to that naturally ungated community called Staten Island. The cruise ship, yesterday's supreme status symbol, features onboard climbing walls for children whose parents sign up to shop at the discount outlets in the Virgin Islands. The actual class markers are those you rarely see; there are 9,000 personal chefs in America these days, compared with 400 a decade ago. 
 Some class mobility in America is neither up nor down but sideways. Peter T. Kilborn relates the travails of Kathy Link, whom he found in Alpharetta, Ga., about to move her family to Charlotte, N. C. Alpharetta cannot escape the realities of class; its $400,000 homes are too expensive for telephone repairmen and assistant supermarket managers. But it is also classless in a particularly exurban way. Kathy, an ''executive Gypsy,'' sits in the same traffic jams as all the other wanderers from soccer matches to tennis lessons.
 The first substantive article featured in both the original New York Times series and in ''Class Matters'' is the most poignant: Janny Scott's story of three heart attacks. Jean Miele, a well-to-do architect, survived his relatively successfully; ''time is muscle,'' heart surgeons say, and Miele, rushed to a world-class hospital, saved the one and preserved the other. Will Wilson, an office worker for Consolidated Edison, received angioplasty and a stent, but only after originally being taken to a hospital that offered neither. Ewa Rynczak Gora, an immigrant from Poland working as a maid, was the unluckiest of the three; after neglecting her own health, she was not well served by visits to emergency rooms and treatments forgone because medical insurance would not cover them.
 Even before the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 offered stupendous breaks to the very rich, the United States was already transforming itself into a society in which merit counts -- and in which merit is determined by what your parents earned and where your grandparents came from. Back when Americans still had a sense of shame, we called such morally arbitrary advantages unfair, sometimes even unjust. Now we ignore them in favor of debates about gay marriage or stem cells. ''Class Matters'' seeks to change that and I, for one, hope it does. If its stories of unearned breaks and unwarranted misfortune do not make your blood boil, you probably left your social conscience on the ferry to Nantucket.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%); NURSES & NURSING (53%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (54%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



413 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: Other Voices: Were Readers Prepared for the Hurricane?

 BODY:
Much newsprint and air time were squandered in the first half of the ''decade before the storm'' on revelations of sexual impropriety in the Oval Office and the inconsequential ripples from the Whitewater scandal. 
 In that post-cold-war era of relative peace and prosperity, serious newspapers like The Times should have more tenaciously focused on the intractable problems that beset this nation -- growing and festering just below the surface -- like the crumbling infrastructure needs of our great cities.

BARBARA ALLEN KENNEY
Atlanta, Sept. 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCANDALS (87%); COLD WAR (84%); TRENDS (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

PERSON: Barbara Allen Kenney; Byron Calame

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



414 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Building the Great Firewall of China, With Foreign Help

BYLINE: By TINA ROSENBERG

 BODY:
In April 2004, a few weeks before the 15th anniversary of Beijing's massacre of protesters in Tiananmen Square, the top-ranking staff members of The Contemporary Business News in Hunan were called into a meeting. An editor read a message from the Communist Party's propaganda department warning that protests or media coverage of the anniversary would not be tolerated as June 4 approached. Though the message was routine, the reporters were warned not to take notes.
 But Shi Tao, one of the journalists, did. He e-mailed them to a Chinese dissident in America, who posted them on the Web. A few months later, Mr. Shi was arrested. This April, he was given 10 years in prison, a sentence the judge called lenient, for disseminating state secrets abroad. 
How did the police find Mr. Shi? His newly published verdict states that the prosecution relied in part on information given to the government by Mr. Shi's e-mail provider, Yahoo.
 America has a bipartisan human rights policy in China. It is called trade. The idea is that Western companies will bring Western values -- especially when they develop the Internet, supposedly an unstoppable force for openness. But Mr. Shi's fate is the latest piece of evidence that it's not working out that way.
 China now has more than 100 million Internet users, more than any nation but the United States. But as the Internet booms, China is growing more politically closed. Its government has used the Internet masterfully as a steam valve, allowing Chinese to participate in a world that is modern in all senses but one. A controlled Internet may seem like an oxymoron, but China has one. Sophisticated filters block access for users in China to ideas about democracy, human rights, Taiwan, Tiananmen and other sensitive subjects. Type in ''democracy'' on a search engine in China and you get a limited choice of government-approved sites, or nothing at all, or a warning that the word is prohibited. If you use one of these words in an e-mail message, chat room or blog, you will be censored, and possibly arrested.
 American companies like Microsoft and Cisco have all sold China security tools and firewalls that China has turned into political controls. The companies argue that it is not their fault if China misuses standard politically neutral technology. They are right, but many foreign Internet companies in China have gone beyond neutrality. Some, including Yahoo, signed a pledge of ''self-discipline'' in 2002, promising to follow China's censorship laws. Many Internet portals actively censor their Chinese Web sites.
 Snitching on a client to totalitarian police is still another category of bad behavior, a move that should shrivel the keyboard fingers of Yahoo users everywhere. Since Chinese legal verdicts so rarely come to light, it is unclear how commonly this occurs. It has always been easy to imagine China's government asking Internet companies for the e-mail of, say, a foreign businessman competing against a Chinese business or government entity. Now it is easy to imagine Yahoo complying. 
 The company admits it linked the e-mail to Mr. Shi's telephone for the police. Its only comment has been a brief declaration that its local subsidiaries must obey local laws, regulations and customs. But according to the verdict, the Yahoo subsidiary that turned in Mr. Shi is in Hong Kong. It has no more obligation to obey China's security laws than does Yahoo in Sunnyvale, Calif.
 It was the force of capitalist profits, not Communist law, that compelled Yahoo to hand over Shi Tao and its unapologetic response seems devised to ingratiate Yahoo further with Beijing. Last month, Yahoo spent a billion dollars to buy a 40 percent share of Alibaba.com, China's largest e-commerce company. It was the single largest foreign investment in China's Internet sector, and like everything else in China, it would not have happened without the good will of the party. 
 The Chinese market is so delicious that companies will do almost anything to get in and stay there. A few anecdotes among many: Rupert Murdoch banned the BBC from Star TV, his China satellite network, after the BBC ran reports about human rights in China. In the mid-1990's, Chrysler in Beijing refused to rehire a Jeep factory worker who missed work while locked up for holding a Christian ceremony commemorating Tiananmen. Only direct lobbying by Chrysler's chairman got him his job back. 
 In 1999, Fortune magazine held a conference in Shanghai to mark the 50th year of Communist Party rule. The conference was one great big icky fawning session. Gerald Levin, the Time Warner chairman, presented President Jiang Zemin with a bust of Lincoln. Sumner Redstone, chief executive of Viacom, told the meeting that Western media groups ''should avoid being unnecessarily offensive to the Chinese government.'' 
 In many important ways, foreign investment has been good for the Chinese people. It has lifted living standards greatly. China's desire to trade has encouraged new permission for thousands of Chinese to study abroad, which is also a force for liberalization. Foreign businesses have promoted legal reform, although largely in commercial law.
 But let's not pretend that foreign investment will make China a democracy. That argument was born out of desperation and self-interest. Because China is too lucrative a market to resist, American and European businessmen have ended up endorsing the party line through their silence -- or worse. They are not molding China; China is molding them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENSORSHIP (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (84%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (76%); CHAT ROOMS (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (75%); ARRESTS (74%); EVIDENCE (73%); TRENDS (73%); FIREWALLS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WRITERS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); RIOTS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) News and News Media; Sentences (Criminal); Electronic Mail; Demonstrations and Riots; Foreign Investments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Yahoo Inc

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (85%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: Tina Rosenberg; Shi Tao

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HUNAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (79%) China; Tiananmen Square (Beijing); China

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



415 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: A Thriving Market, And a Community Pillar

BYLINE: By BRIAN P. MURPHY

DATELINE: CLIFTON 

 BODY:
TO drivers zipping by on the Garden State Parkway, the beige-brown shingled sign for Corrado's Family Affair stands out just as much as it did when James Corrado and his three sons opened their produce market here 30 years ago. From the ground, though, it's clear that Corrado's has become something more. The store remains family owned by ''the triumvirate'' -- the brothers Peter, Joey and Jerry -- and managed by 8 of their 17 children. But the enterprise has expanded into a mini-empire that takes in 23 acres along the Crooks Avenue border that separates Paterson and Clifton.
 The store hardly resembles its humble beginnings, though it sits just blocks from the Paterson farmers market where James Corrado first speculated in fresh fruits and vegetables in the 1950's and opened a retail store a decade later. Corrado's now sits entirely in Clifton, but it is still all Paterson in spirit. James's father, Pietro, started in the produce business at the downtown Island market in the 1920's and 1930's. 
In many ways, Corrado's could be a business-school case study. It does not advertise, yet its 35 checkout registers hum even at 8 a.m. on a Monday; Sundays, the parking lot is a carnival spurred by the lure of fresh produce. The store primarily stocks produce, meats and fish. Corrado's sells little prepared food. This is a store for people who do their own cooking.
 ''We can sell a head of lettuce for 29 cents,'' explained Peter Corrado, 59, one of the ever-present Corrado brothers at the front of the store. ''Nobody can beat that, so why waste money on advertising? When people stop in, they stay to buy more.''
 Although Mr. Corrado years ago gave up personally picking up produce from South Jersey farms, he is at work when two trailers roll in at 6 a.m. daily. September is canning season, and when families begin brewing their own tomato sauces from ripe Jersey reds, the store will move 600 to 800 bushels of tomatoes in a single day, and 30,000 in a season.
 Corrado's still draws many of the same Italian-American customers it originally served, but as Paterson and Clifton and surrounding areas have become more populated with Latino and Middle Eastern immigrants, so has the inventory and staff. A tub of fresh ricotta is bordered by globes of homemade mozzarella, and on a recent Sunday the store offered four types of fresh feta cheese (Romanian, Bulgarian, French and American). Red and green peppers are flanked by serranos, hot bananas and finger hots. Prickly pears imported from Mexico can be found among Sicilian, Italian, and Chinese eggplant.
 The international flavor of the store is not a result of market research. Instead, customers asked, and the store responded, even when they were not sure what they were ordering. 
 ''It started with tahini.'' Mr. Corrado said. ''Twenty years ago, Turkish immigrants came in looking for it. I had no idea what it was, but we got some. Now we have tahini from two countries.'' 
 The instrument that allows this diversification is laughably low-tech: the board.
 Whenever a customer asks for something not on the shelves, it's written ''on the board.'' When Corrado's vendors stop in, they check the board. If they can supply an item, the brothers have no qualms about taking a risk. Tahini, peppers, cilantro, avocados and different varieties of mango -- all unknown to the Paterson-born and Fair Lawn-raised Corrados -- became staples in the store because of the customers' initiative and the owners' listening skills. 
 Corrado's revolves around the needs of its customers. In the 1970's, silk screeners with dye-stained hands would shop in the store after work; today, the mills that made Paterson the Silk City are long gone, but local retailers, Muslim halal butchers in nearby South Paterson and Latino laborers have replaced them. With a Bangladeshi floor supervisor and a multilingual staff, you get the feeling that anybody on the planet could shop in the store.
 This unyielding embrace of change has not been the norm in sometimes nostalgia-mongering Paterson, New Jersey's third-largest city behind Newark and Camden. 
 The Corrado family's public departure from the farmers' market in the 1970's, spurred by rival shareholders who denied James Corrado a renewal on his lease, was less a departure from the city than a retreat from its politics. When Mr. Corrado bulldozed his sprawling old shed, moved up the street to Clifton, and established an enterprise that gilded the demographic and economic changes others were resisting, he rejected a mind-set -- not a locale. 
 As Paterson's 150,000 residents saw factory after factory close and vacant lots spring up to cover 12 percent of the city, Corrado's prospered. If Paterson is to be reborn, Mr. Corrado believes, it will be a grass-roots resurrection that happens one block at a time. 
 Corrado's took a risk by expanding in a place that others had abandoned, embracing change and showing respect to local customers whose arrival others lamented. They offer variety without pretense. Of the feta cheeses, Mr. Corrado gestured toward one of his employees and said:. ''This isn't a fancy store like Zabar's. It's for people who cook. We're not a discount store, and I don't have time to describe each cheese to you on a little card, but if you want to taste it, that man will help you out.''
 Try the cheese. Sniff the 20 feet of olives. If you don't find what you need, ask someone, then come back in two weeks.
 It will go on the board.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Corrado's isn't a fancy place, the owners say, but it is a place for cooks. It covers 23 acres along the Crooks Avenue border that separates Paterson and Clifton. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (83%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); RETAILERS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); CASE STUDIES (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Food; Company and Organization Profiles

ORGANIZATION: Corrado's Family Affair (Clifton, Nj)

PERSON: James Corrado; Brian P Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Clifton (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



416 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Stony Brook Unveils Its Marine Science Site 

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON 

 BODY:
SHIRLEY STRUM KENNY just could not stop smiling. 
 Ms. Kenny, the president of the State University of New York at Stony Brook, said so several times during a two-hour ceremony on Sept. 10 marking Stony Brook's takeover of the marine sciences center at the nearly shuttered Southampton College.
''I cannot stop smiling, because I'm so excited about what's happening with Southampton College and Stony Brook,'' she told the six dozen or so people who attended the ceremony. ''It feels so right and so good.'' 
 The move was a significant step for Stony Brook. Beyond the physical assets -- research laboratories, classrooms, a small fleet of boats and dock facilities that give direct access to the Shinnecock Bay estuary and the ocean -- the acquisition gives Stony Brook a renowned undergraduate program in marine science to add to a graduate program that is one of the country's most prestigious. 
 And, as it turns out, the deal to take over the program from Long Island University, Southampton's parent institution, may be the start of bigger things. Dr. Kenny said in an interview that on the day before the ceremony, Stony Brook's university council had voted unanimously in favor of buying all or most of the 80-acre Southampton College campus from L.I.U. 
 Dr. Kenny said she envisioned an interdisciplinary curriculum centered around ecological sustainability and its economic, political and social implications, which she called ''the major issue of the 21st century.'' Marine sciences would be the focal point of the campus, she said, but other courses ranging from business to history to the arts would be offered there as well. 
 ''Katrina drives home the point of how important that issue has become,'' she said.
 The State University board of trustees must still approve the plan before the campus acquisition can move ahead; that vote is scheduled for Tuesday. 
 The State Legislature has appropriated $35 million for Stony Brook to buy the campus, and $5 million more to upgrade its sewage treatment plant, but the cost of operating the campus is not yet included in the university budget for next year. 
 Two appraisals performed for Long Island University valued the campus at $41 million to $42 million. But Stony Brook officials said that the dilapidated condition of some dormitories and other buildings would lower the purchase price, and they predicted that a final deal could be made without difficulty. 
 Dr. Kenny and several other speakers at the ceremony, including Timothy Bishop, the former Southampton College provost who now represents the East End in Congress, said that Senator Kenneth LaValle was the main political force behind the acquisition. Mr. LaValle described his role more modestly, saying, ''It takes a village to do what we're doing.'' 
 He recalled his reaction last year when L.I.U. officials told him that, after years of budget deficits, they had decided to transfer all of Southampton College's undergraduate programs to the university's C.W. Post campus in Old Brookville. Students, faculty members and the surrounding community were upset, but not Mr. LaValle. ''In a nanosecond, I said 'Great!''' he told the audience, pausing for boisterous laughter. ''What a great opportunity for Stony Brook.''
 Dr. David Conover, the head of Stony Brook's Marine Sciences Research Center, said the merged programs now have about 250 students enrolled for the autumn semester. About half are undergraduates, he said, including 40 who were enrolled at Southampton last year and are now benefiting from much lower state-university tuition rates. 
 Dr. Conover said that the merged marine-science programs had longstanding links: many Southampton undergraduates went on to do graduate work at Stony Brook, while some Stony Brook alumni took jobs teaching at Southampton. 
 Patrick Curran, who graduated from Southampton last December and enrolled at Stony Brook, returned to the Southampton for the ceremony. He said he expected to do a lot of his graduate research on phytoplankton and algal blooms there.
 ''Everything happens for a reason,'' Mr. Curran said. ''Good things will come from this.''
 Dr. Kenny said she was confident the new satellite campus --tentatively called SUNY Stony Brook at Southampton -- could reopen in September 2006, starting with around 800 students and gradually building to 2,000. She said she also hoped to offer a summer session next year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stony Brook students collecting water samples as part of a class project. (Photo by Deirdre Brennan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCEANOGRAPHY (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); MARINE BIOLOGY (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); CURRICULA (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); BUDGETS (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY H BISHOP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



417 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: The Voters' Wrath Now Plays Out

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

 BODY:
NOW is when the chalk meets the blackboard.
 The wave of voter wrath that defeated school budgets in 45 of Long Island's 124 districts last May ultimately left 21 of them to struggle through the year on contingency budgets, their spending constrained by state law.
As the new school year began after Labor Day, the outcome of those budget battles became tangible for the students, teachers, principals and parents in those 21 districts. And they bit deeper in some than in others. 
 Many of the contingency-budget districts are making do this year with fewer teachers and aides leading larger classes. Clubs, sports teams and other extracurricular activities are gone, along with buses for the children who took part. Capital improvements are postponed, nonessential maintenance deferred, conferences postponed, supplies stretched. Everywhere there are exhortations to save money. 
 Most districts have strived to make cuts in academic programs a last resort. But elective class offerings have been reduced in high schools like Harborfields and Sachem North. 
 Austerity made itself felt in large ways and small during the first few days of classes at schools across the Island. At Hiawatha Elementary in Lake Ronkonkoma, kindergartners often had no teaching aide available to show them how to hold their scissors and cut colored shapes from construction paper. An economics class at Sachem North nearby had 33 students and just 30 computers for them to use. 
 But also evident was the strong impulse in some districts to ward off the ravages of budget cuts. Young athletes in the Plainedge district were offered a full slate of fall sports, paid for largely by volunteer fund-raising rather than tax money. And Glen Cove found ways to relieve overcrowding in high school classes despite a second consecutive year of defeated budgets. 
 More Long Island school districts are operating without a voter-approved budget this year than at any time since 1999, when New York State changed its education law to allow districts just two budget votes each year. After that, they must adopt a contingency budget, with spending growth limited to a rate slightly faster than the inflation rate -- the limit is 3.24 percent this year. 
 Which cuts are made under a contingency budget and to what extent they will affect the quality of education are questions left almost entirely to school boards and administrations to answer. In past decades, the threat of full-blown ''austerity'' -- no sports, no school buses, no after-school clubs, period -- struck fear in the hearts of parents, and became a weapon against taxpayer campaigns to defeat a school budget. Now, district officials have more freedom to pick and choose where to make it hurt.
 Some districts look for small cuts across the board. Sachem administrators lopped $12.5 million from their proposed $265 million budget that way, increasing some but not all class sizes and eliminating some but not all extracurricular programs. 
 In Plainedge, by contrast, much of the $2.4 million in cuts was concentrated in a few areas, including the sports programs. 
 Voter frustration with rapidly rising property taxes has been building for a while, and about one-third of the Island's districts had budgets rejected on the first try last year. Knowing that, far fewer school administrators proposed double-digit spending increases this year than last -- just 17 in 2005, compared with 36 in 2004. 
 But even districts like Hewlett-Woodmere, which had never before lost a budget vote, suffered defeats this year. And there is little sign that taxpayer anger over school taxes is abating: tax protest groups in several contingency-budget districts remain harshly critical of school administrators' spending policies. 
 Highly publicized financial and other scandals in some districts have made matters worse, undermining school districts' credibility with voters. So have studies highlighting the rapidly growing number of teachers on the Island who earn more than $100,000 a year, which have led to pressure on schools to toughen their pay policies and have aggravated relations between teachers and administrators in some districts. 
 On Long Island, the school budget is often the only municipal budget put directly to taxpayers for a vote. So specific concerns about the schools often become fused in the public mind with general frustration over rising taxes and the high cost of living on the Island, according to Ron Edelson, whose Great Neck public relations firm, Zimmerman/Edelson, represents 19 school districts.
 ''It's unfortunate because some of that frustration is misdirected, and voters lose sight of where the money goes and what it's for,'' he said.
 Still, the budget defeats have concentrated the attention of many school administrators more firmly than before on efficiency, cost savings and financial controls, and some districts are discovering that they are capable of cutting spending much more than they thought without significant harm to their education mission. And parents in districts like Plainedge and Patchogue-Medford are discovering the power of private fund-raising to preserve programs they value.
 Here are reports from the first week of school at four districts -- two in Suffolk and two in Nassau -- that are on contingency budgets this year, and the varied ways that spending cuts are making themselves felt.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about school districts that are on contingency budgets referred incorrectly to Hewlett-Woodmere. Though it has always won voter approval, in several recent years it did so on a second or third try after an initial proposal was rejected; the district did not have a record of never having lost a budget vote before this year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Harborfields, top, and Hiawatha schools, left, budget cuts led to overcrowding. In the Plainedge district, a fund-raiser for sports. (Photographs by Phil Marino, top and left, and Kirk Condyles, above, for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 The girls' volleyball team at Plainedge, where parents have discovered the power of private fund-raising to preserve the programs they value. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); INFLATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



418 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Wooing Customers With All That's Organic, and Trying to Turn a Profit

BYLINE: By STACY ALBIN

 BODY:
HOW do you build a business in a field that is, by its nature, allergic to ''business''? That is the conundrum facing organic-food entrepreneurs on Long Island. 
 The very idea of certified organic food is a rejection of the mainstream food industry and all its practices. Customers, employees and suppliers alike may be animated as much by personal and political beliefs as by ordinary economic motives, and scowl at anything smacking of crass capitalism.
Ask Melanie Mitzner what she and her business partner, Nicke Gorney, are doing, for example, and she answers, ''Trading in higher consciousness.'' 
 Their company, The Groovy Mind, sells organic coffees and snack foods online, stressing that no pesticides or chemicals are used in growing or manufacturing. The company makes an effort to buy many of its products from countries with ''fair trade'' policies meant to guarantee farmers a certain income regardless of fluctuations in world commodity prices.
 The company's organic and fair-trade policies mean its costs are higher and its profit margins narrower than they might be otherwise, but the owners don't mind. Making a living is important, Ms. Mitzner said, but the main goal is ''buying, selling and promoting products that are socially responsible and environmentally sustainable -- because after all, that's all we've got as people on this planet.'' 
 The company, based in Greenport, opened its Web site, www.thegroovymind.com, in March, and sold about 10 pounds of coffee the first month; now sales are in the hundreds of pounds, Ms. Mitzner said. 
 In any business, building up a following takes work. Ms. Mitzner said that for certified organic retailers, simple advertising often won't be enough to attract customers; she and her partner have used techniques ranging from giving away samples to seeking favorable mentions on Web logs. 
 Others in the field say recommendations are crucial. ''The new people are mostly sent here by word of mouth,'' said Michael Makinajian, whose family owns the 6.5-acre Makinajian Poultry Farm and Country Store in Huntington, selling organic poultry, eggs and vegetables. 
 Mr. Makinajian said his family is fortunate to be operating in a thriving residential community full of potential customers. Organic farmers in rural areas often must travel to weekend farmers' markets in distant towns to sell their produce. 
 There are 13 certified organic farms on Long Island, according to the Northeast Organic Farming Association of New York, part of a burgeoning nationwide industry. Sales of organic labeled products across the country came to $12.2 billion last year, double the figure for 2000, according to the Organic Trade Association, a group based in Greenfield, Mass., that represents growers, retailers and farmers' associations. 
 ''The majority of people who are in this industry just didn't wake up and decide to be in it,'' said June Stoyer, the president of OrganicUniverse.com, a juice and food retailer based in Wantagh. ''The majority are in it for personal reasons.'' 
 Reputations are important in the industry, she said: ''Word of mouth is definitely a very big issue. It's a tightknit community. It tends to get very, very political.'' 
 Home-grown businesses like the Makinajian farm, established in the late 1940's, take a great deal of effort to operate, Mr. Makinajian said. He and his father, Edward, and sister, Christina, put in 10 to 12 hours a day, 7 days a week, attending to their animals and crops and to the customers in their retail store, at the entrance to the farm. 
 Retailing organic products in cyberspace can be a simpler proposition. Ms. Stoyer said she chose to do business online to sidestep the high cost of real estate and taxes on Long Island and keep down prices, her central selling point. Her company's Web site says, ''We don't exploit the whole foods industry by hiking up our prices the way most retailers that carry all-natural, organic and eco-friendly products do.'' 
 Growing consumer interest in organic products, and the higher prices they tend to command, have attracted the attention of mainstream supermarket chains like Waldbaum's, which have added organic fruits and vegetables to produce sections and set aside shelf space for organic dry goods. The chain's Long Beach store, for instance, has a substantial section devoted to ''healthy'' products including organics.
 Christina Makinajian said that a similar phenomenon is at work among farmers, some of whom are converting all or part of their conventional farms to organic methods. ''I think it's great,'' Ms. Makinajian said. ''The more organic land, the better.'' 
 Ms. Stoyer said she hoped the growth would reduce prices. But as things are, she said, dabblings in organic food by conventional retailers often lack appeal: ''A customer is probably thinking, 'Why should I spend more money? It looks awful.''' 
 Consumers are not always clear about what ''certified organic'' means, Ms. Stoyer said. The average shopper ''thinks it's some kind of marketing scheme,'' she said. 
 In fact, the United States Department of Agriculture has regulated commercial use of the label since 2001, according to Holly Givens, a spokeswoman for the Organic Trade Association. To be certified, any company selling more than $5,000 worth of products a year must not use any synthetic chemicals, pesticides, herbicides or fertilizers, must not fertilize with sewage sludge and must not use genetically engineered plants or animals. 
 For a product to be sold as ''certified organic,'' every company in the chain of production must be accredited by the department, whose agents visit farmers and processors annually to review records. To pass inspection, Mr. Makinajian said, he keeps receipts to show where his animal feed and plant seeds came from. ''It's good, because it keeps the integrity of what we did intact,'' he said. 
 On his family's farm, where his grandparents and father started selling chickens around 1949, the fertilizer for crops is made from organic compost, which includes manure and leaves. Mr. Makinajian said the farm has always been organic -- ''we didn't know how to do it any other way'' -- and the federal regulations made little difference in his operations. But customers do not seem to understand the organic concept any better now than before the rules were enacted, he said.
 Mr. Makinajian himself swears by organic food, for its purity if nothing else. He spoke skeptically of food-industry practices like repeatedly spraying strawberries with chemicals, or exposing bananas to gases to speed up ripening. 
 ''Who knows if it's bad for you,'' he said. ''But it doesn't sound like it's good for you.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A rooster perches in a poultry coop at Makinajian Poultry Farm and Country Store in Huntington. The organic farm grows heirloom vegetables, like the Rosa Bianca eggplant, left. Raspberries are also available at the farm store. (Photographs by Katrina Hajagos for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIC FOODS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); POULTRY (89%); AGRICULTURE (88%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); COFFEE (74%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (73%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); MEATS (73%); FOOD LABELING (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (68%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



419 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Men's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 212

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: He Pimped His Ride

BYLINE: By Charles Mcgrath

 BODY:
For gearheads in the 1960's, the great anthem of the age was not a Beatles tune or even the Beach Boys' ''Little Deuce Coupe.'' It was ''GTO,'' as sung by Ronny and the Daytonas. The opening lines, blared falsetto from countless car radios in the summer of 1964, went:
 Little GTO, you're really lookin' fine. 
 Three deuces and a four-speed and a 389.
 Listen to her tachin' up now, listen to her why-eye-ine.
 C'mon and turn it on, wind it up, blow it out GTO.
 ''GTO'' was shorthand for Gran Turismo Omologato, a preposterous, overweening name for a piece of stamped-out Detroit iron goods. It was borrowed from Ferrari, though there was very little Ferrari-like about it, except perhaps for the noise it made, an anxious, over-revved whine. The GTO was simply a humble Pontiac Tempest into which a 389-cubic-inch overhead-cam engine had been squeezed. And the result was the original ''muscle car,'' a mass-produced imitation street racer so popular among young people in the mid-60's that it singlehandedly rescued the fortunes of Pontiac, then considered the most fogyish and moribund of General Motors divisions, and turned it into the hottest carmaker in Detroit.
 The GTO also made the reputation of its creator, a then-unsung Pontiac engineer named John Z. DeLorean, who for a while was practically canonized both by the automotive press and by the grave, cigar-puffing elders on the 14th Floor, which is how car people referred to the upper reaches of G.M. headquarters. At the age of 40, prepubescent by Motor City standards in those days, DeLorean was made the head of Pontiac, and four years later he took over Chevrolet. In 1972 he himself was elevated to the 14th Floor as a G.M. vice president.
 With the possible exception of Lee Iacocca, John DeLorean was the most colorful car man ever to emerge from corporate Detroit, and though no one knew it then, he was also the beginning of the end of carmaking as it used to be known. At first he was a little like the Wizard of Oz, a gifted tinkerer with an even bigger gift for packaging and spectacle, but in time his story took on overtones of ''The Great Gatsby,'' P.T. Barnum and ''Saturday Night Fever.'' He eventually succumbed to that most American of delusions -- he believed his own myth.
 The car for which DeLorean is even better known, the one bearing his own name, turned out to be an albatross. It, too, incorporated a rip-off element -- the signature gull-wing doors, which were swiped from the Mercedes 300SL. And it, too, was unveiled, in the mid-70's, on waves of favorable publicity. The DeLorean, made of stainless steel, was supposed to be an ''ethical'' sports car -- cheap, safe, durable and economical to operate. On the matter of gas mileage, as on many things, John DeLorean was, in fact, remarkably foresighted: the prototype also featured air bags, an antitheft system and an onboard computer. But when the car actually went into production, compromise piled upon compromise, and the DeLoreans that finally began rolling off the assembly line in early 1981 were overpriced (at $25,000, the cost was more than a Porsche's) and so anemically underpowered that they lumbered from 0 to 60 miles per hour in more than 10 seconds, or something like station-wagon speed. The DeLorean was also a lemon, so badly made that the windows stuck, the dye from the floor mats came off and stained the driver's shoes and the famous gull-wing doors sometimes failed to open, trapping unwary passengers inside. The market for such a vehicle quickly fizzled, and today the DeLorean is best known as the weird-looking ride that Michael J. Fox and Christopher Lloyd use to navigate through time in the ''Back to the Future'' movies. The DeLorean also makes a surprising cameo appearance in Salman Rushdie's new novel, ''Shalimar the Clown,'' in a scene when a rich, doting father gives one to his daughter for her 24th birthday. The father, we gather, has never learned to drive, so perhaps he may be forgiven for presenting his daughter with such a white elephant.
 John DeLorean's greatest and most innovative creation, it turns out, was John DeLorean, whom, in just a few years, he transformed from a geeky, clarinet-playing engineer into a hipster, a swinger and a con man so gifted that he scammed the prime minister of England. DeLorean, who was born in Detroit in 1925, was in many ways a product of the Motor City. His father worked in the foundry at Ford; his mother assembled tools at General Electric. DeLorean graduated from the Lawrence Institute of Technology, which was in effect a vocational college for the car companies. After flirting with the insurance business, he went to work for Packard. Four years later, after Packard had merged with Studebaker, he moved to G.M. By all accounts he was a first-class engineer, and his technical skills and flair for styling rapidly propelled him up the ladder. He held more than 100 patents; among his innovations were the recessed windshield wiper, the hidden radio antenna and stacked headlights.
 David E. Davis Jr., the founder of Automobile magazine, who briefly worked for DeLorean and followed his career with fascination, believes that DeLorean's technical background was actually part of his problem. ''If John had come up through the sales side and not engineering, he would never have got into trouble,'' he said. The reason, he explained, was that in those days automobile sales executives routinely rubbed elbows with movie stars and B-list celebrities and learned that they were often a pain in the neck. But when DeLorean became the head of Pontiac in 1965 and began visiting Hollywood, he was instantly smitten. ''He just swooned when his phone rang and it was Candice Bergen,'' Davis said. ''He would give away cars to golf pros and maitre d's.''
 DeLorean began hanging out with Jim Aubrey, a producer and high roller said to be the model for the sex-obsessed executive in Jacqueline Susann's ''Love Machine,'' and in addition to Bergen, he dated Ursula Andress and Tina Sinatra. In 1969 he divorced his wife of 20 years and married 20-year-old Kelly Harmon, the daughter of the football player Tom Harmon and sister of Kris, better known as Mrs. Ricky Nelson. 
 By then, like a carmaker bringing out a new model, DeLorean had retooled himself. He lost 40 pounds, dyed his hair and grew sideburns. He also had a nose job and a chin job that entailed the insertion of foamlike material into his jaw line to create a craggier profile. To Davis, he looked as if ''a third thumb were sprouting from his chin.'' DeLorean took to carrying a compact so he could check on his appearance. He traded in his dark sack suits, the official uniform of corporate Detroit, for sleek Italian jobs and began wearing gold chains and high-necked shirts with collar points so long they resembled batwings. In photos he looks a little like Tom Jones or Engelbert Humperdinck.
 None of this went over particularly well with the folks on the 14th Floor, but since DeLorean was making money, they didn't just tolerate him; they also promoted him. In 1969 he became the head of Chevrolet. Rumors of financial impropriety began to dog him, though, and he'd also become an outspoken critic of G.M., so in 1972 he was kicked upstairs so the brass could keep an eye on him. A half year later he was gone.
 In his 1979 book ''On a Clear Day You Can See General Motors,'' Patrick Wright noted that DeLorean could no longer function in the old system of corporate Detroit, a world of duchies and fiefdoms, each with its preordained place in the Great Chain of Being -- from lowly Chevy through Pontiac, Buick and Olds on up to baronial Cadillac -- and its appointed task of year after year turning out different versions of the same car. This was true up to a point: DeLorean was now getting a lot of mileage out of being an iconoclast. But it was also true that corporate Detroit was increasingly wary of an executive who took such obvious pleasure in associating not just with the rich and famous but also with grifters and con artists. ''DeLorean and John Glenn have both been out into outer space,'' Davis once said of DeLorean's makeover. ''John DeLorean's problem is that he lost a few tiles on re-entry.''
 The sports-car idea was meant to be DeLorean's revenge on the suits on the 14th Floor -- his way of showing how dull and backward their thinking was -- but in spite of backing from show-biz cronies like Sammy Davis Jr. and Johnny Carson (who was driving a DeLorean the night he was arrested for drunk driving), it was undercapitalized from the beginning. DeLorean, meanwhile, traded in Kelly Harmon for a newer, sleeker wife, the fashion model Cristina Ferrare, and acquired a high-maintenance lifestyle. There was an apartment in New York (first it was Johnny's old pad, and then Mabel Dodge's Fifth Avenue spread) and a huge estate in New Jersey horse country. As production on the DeLorean car fell more and more behind schedule, some of DeLorean's critics began wondering where all the money was going.
 Among the most outspoken were skeptical members of the British government, which had underwritten DeLorean after he agreed to build his car in Northern Ireland. (He got an especially sweet deal by threatening to set up the factory in Puerto Rico.) The British investment was initially $120 million, but by threatening to shut down production -- which is to say, dumping 2,600 unemployed workers back on the troubled streets of Belfast -- he wangled an additional $33 million from Margaret Thatcher. By February 1982, however, the Thatcher government had run out of patience, and the company went into receivership.
 Eight months later DeLorean was arrested in a Los Angeles hotel room, so desperate that he had slunk (or was enticed, depending on whom you believe) into the drug business to keep his struggling factory afloat. He was charged with conspiring to smuggle 55 pounds of cocaine, or about $24 million worth, into the country, and though he was eventually acquitted, this bizarre episode effectively ended both the DeLorean car company and DeLorean's unlikely career.
 Ferrare soon divorced him, and he took a fourth wife, Sally Baldwin. He floated various schemes, but nothing came of them. Increasingly secluded, he spent time fending off creditors and in 1999 declared bankruptcy. The New Jersey estate was sold, ending up in the hands of another self-promoter, Donald Trump, and is now part of Trump National Golf Club. DeLorean died of a stroke last March at 80, but he was image-conscious to the end. Still playing the part of the rebel, he appeared to have added to his lengthy list of personae the Marlon Brando character in ''The Wild One.'' In his casket he wore a black motorcycle jacket, blue jeans and a denim shirt. A pair of shades was tucked into the zipper.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 18 in T: Men's Fashion magazine about John Z. DeLorean referred incorrectly to the engine that powered the Pontiac GTO in the 1960's. It was an overhead-valve, or push-rod, engine, not an overhead-cam engine.

GRAPHIC: Photos: My wife and pictures: clockwise from above, a 1974 portrait of DeLorean
with his third wife, the fashion model Cristina Ferrare, in 1979
in his home office in 1974
with his second wife, Kelly Harmon, and the Chevrolet Vega he helped design, in 1970. Auto motives: clockwise from top, DeLorean's high life hits the front page in 1982
the maverick and the car that bears his name, in 1985
after a count of cocaine trafficking is thrown out of court in 1984
and a scene from ''Back to the Future.'' (Photographs by Bob Lerner for Look Magazine
The New York Times/Andrew Sacks
The New York Times Archives
Arthur Schatz/Time Life Pictures/Getty Images
New York Daily News, L.P. reprinted with permission
Corbis
Ron Galella
 Everett Collection) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TWEEN BRANDS INC (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (60%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (60%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



420 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Face of the Insurgency

BYLINE: By DANIEL BENJAMIN. 
Daniel Benjamin, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, is a co-author, with Steven Simon, of the forthcoming ''Next Attack: The Failure of the War on Terror and a Strategy for Getting It Right.''

 BODY:
ZARQAWI
 The New Face of Al-Qaeda.
 By Jean-Charles Brisard 
 with Damien Martinez.
 Illustrated. 283 pp. Other Press. Paper, $13.95.
THERE is no substitute for war as a way of separating out talented field commanders from the rest. In Iraq, America's terrorist enemies have benefited from these winnowing effects as much as any conventional force. Now the jihadists have a hardened cadre of leaders, and none is more brutally distinguished than Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. 
 With a $25 million price on his head and the United States military desperately trying to corner him, Zarqawi has become the face of the insurgency, if not exactly ''the new face of Al Qaeda,'' as the subtitle of Jean-Charles Brisard's disjointed biography, ''Zarqawi,'' asserts. His organization may be committing only a fraction of the attacks in Iraq, but, as Brisard and his collaborator, Damien Martinez, rightly observe, ''His are the ones that are commented on throughout the world.'' These attacks have included the destruction of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad and large-scale bombings of Shiite targets in Najaf and Karbala, which have helped speed the way toward wider sectarian violence and the current undeclared civil war. 
 A Jordanian with a background as humble as Osama bin Laden's is grand, Ahmad Fadil Nazzal al-Khalayleh (Zarqawi's nom de guerre is taken from his hometown near Amman) traveled a route sharply different from that of Al Qaeda's first generation of leaders. Unlike the patrician surgeon Ayman al-Zawahiri, the group's second-in-command and chief ideologist, or bin Laden himself, a member of the Saudi elite who studied engineering and economics, Zarqawi was a high school dropout, an abuser of alcohol, a drug dealer and possibly a participant in an attempted rape. 
 According to Brisard, this rebel from a criminal background went to fight in the Afghan jihad in 1989 after a quarrel with his father, a minor city official. He missed the glorious struggle against the Soviets but saw action in later battles among the various Afghan factions. He was arrested in his native country in 1994 for trying to bring the jihad home. In prison, Zarqawi came under the tutelage of a prominent radical imam, Abu Mohammed al-Maqdisi, and matured into a hard-edged takfiri, a believer in the excommunication -- and slaughter -- of Muslims deemed guilty of apostasy. He became the leader of a jailhouse Islamist cell, acquiring a reputation for being relentlessly aggressive against those he opposed and extravagantly devoted to those who supported him. 
 These qualities have served him well in Iraq. While bin Laden, who is fastidious about the details of his violence, has been off making video addresses from the caves of Waziristan and casting himself as a world leader, Zarqawi is claiming credit for a dozen bombings a week. His videos show him personally beheading captives, like the young American Nick Berg. His passionate hatred of Shiites, whom he has compared unfavorably to Americans, has made him perfectly suited to be the catalyst for an Iraqi civil war -- a role that probably could not have been filled as well by bin Laden, since Al Qaeda has historically sought to avoid provoking Shiite Iran.
 Zarqawi could be an excellent window into understanding radical Islam's appeal to the Arab world's swelling underclass, the various currents running through the movement (including its powerful anti-Shiite sentiment) and the way the jihadist struggle has been changed by the war in Iraq. But this biography has little to say about any of this. Nor is it helpful in explaining Zarqawi's volatile relationship with Al Qaeda. In the period preceding the war, while the Bush administration was portraying Zarqawi as the key intermediary between Al Qaeda and Saddam Hussein, many Western intelligence services saw him less as a lieutenant of bin Laden than a rival -- a view now widely accepted. (The charge that Zarqawi was collaborating with Hussein's regime has long since crumbled.) The merger of his Tawhid and Jihad group with Al Qaeda in 2004 was a case of mutual exploitation. Zarqawi was able to show that he had the blessing of the greatest jihadist and bin Laden could create the illusion that he was a real presence in today's central field of battle. 
 Brisard describes a chaotic series of conspiracies, mostly failed, and he provides the names of legions of insignificant co-conspirators, but he scarcely explores Zarqawi's differences with the Al Qaeda leaders over doctrine (it may be hard to believe there are people more radical than bin Laden, but takfiris, with their ''slaughter them all approach,'' are just that). There is also little discussion of the disagreements over strategy, in which Zarqawi pushed for bringing the jihad to the Middle East to topple Jordan's rulers and attack Israel, while bin Laden favored a global focus on the United States. 
 What's more, numerous errors of fact and a shabby use of sources makes this a self-undermining book. For example, Brisard refers to a mid-90's plot ''to crash several airplanes simultaneously over the United States''; the goal of that plot was actually to blow up 12 wide-bodies over the Pacific. Brisard appears not to know that Pakistan's ruler in the late 90's was Nawaz Sharif, and he identifies Benazir Bhutto as the victim of Gen. Pervez Musharraf's 1999 coup, when in fact she was in exile at the time. Most bizarre is Brisard's claim that the United States has been trying to incite a ''direct clash'' between Sunnis and Shiites in Iraq ''so as to justify its presence in Iraq.''
 Charges like this only reinforce the reputation for reckless conspiracy theorizing that Brisard acquired with his last book, ''Forbidden Truth: U.S.-Taliban Secret Oil Diplomacy and the Failed Hunt for Bin Laden.'' (There he alleged that the 9/11 attacks were a response to American pressure on the Taliban to permit oil and gas pipelines to be built in Afghanistan.) In a letter early this year, Osama bin Laden asked Zarqawi to start work on an operation against the United States. The world's foremost jihadist evidently thinks the Jordanian upstart has the resources to carry out such an attack, and surely this is reason enough for us to know more about him. But ''Zarqawi'' is a squandered opportunity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); AL-QAEDA (91%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CIVIL WAR (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); RELIGION (71%); LITERATURE (69%); ARRESTS (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%) Daniel Benjamin; Jean-Charles Brisard; Damien Martinez

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); AMMAN, JORDAN (70%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JORDAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



421 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: For Native Americans, Buying Has Become Easier 

BYLINE: By LINDA BAKER

DATELINE: SPOKANE, Wash. 

 BODY:
ON his way to a traditional Native American dance competition a few weeks ago, Rodney Abrahamson, a police officer with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, stopped off at a title company to sign the papers refinancing his home mortgage. It was a satisfying stroke of the pen. 
 ''I've tried to refinance through eight different places in five years,'' said Mr. Abrahamson, who is 34 and lives with his wife and three children on the Spokane Indian Reservation, about an hour's drive through rolling wheat fields from downtown. ''I explain to people the land is in trust, and the first thing out of their mouth is, 'Yes, we'll do it.' A week later they call back and say, 'What is trust land?''' 
 Because most of the land on Native American reservations throughout the country is held in trust, residents generally do not own their land individually, which means that banks have been hesitant to extend loans because they are unable to foreclose on tribal property. That is one reason that the homeownership rate for Native Americans is the lowest among all ethnic groups -- 33 percent -- and less than half the rate for the general United States population. (The other is income; more than half of all Native Americans on reservations live in poverty, more than four times the national average.) 
 ''The tribes didn't want to lose trust land, and the banks didn't know how to foreclose if they had to,'' said Heidi Cleveland, marketing director with AmericanWest Bank in Spokane. ''It was complicated; it was messy, and they didn't want to go down that path.'' 
 But the situation has begun to change, in part because of a federal program that increases access to bank financing by guaranteeing home loans made to Native Americans on and off tribal lands. The Department of Housing and Urban Development's Section 184 program, now available in 18 states, provides a 100 percent guarantee in the event of a foreclosure to lenders to Native Americans buying either on or off reservations. Should a borrower living on a reservation default, the bank cannot sell the property to anyone but an enrolled tribal member. 
 Begun in 1995, the loan program has expanded rapidly over the last two years. In 2005, AmericanWest and Wells Fargo Bank became the first banks to offer financing on the Spokane reservation, which has about 2,200 tribal members on 157,000 acres. Other nearby reservations also offered possibilities for mortgages. 
 ''We recognized our footprint had a fairly large community of Indian tribes that were underserved by community banks,'' said Robert M. Daugherty, chief executive of AmericanWest. ''In return, we're looking for tribal business, so it's quid pro quo.'' 
 The northeast corner of the state includes the Spokane, Colville and Kalispel Indian reservations, where approximately 10,000 people live on about 1.5 million acres. 
 Bounded by the Columbia and Spokane Rivers, the sparsely developed Spokane reservation has more than 200 square miles of pine forest, an administration building, a school for kindergarten through 12th grade, a health clinic and two casinos. 
 There are 700 houses on the reservation, and nearly half are publicly financed rentals or lease arrangements leading to ownership, said Brook Kristovich, the housing director for the Kalispel Tribe and the former executive director of the Spokane Indian Housing Authority. 
 Until last year, Mr. Kristovich said, tribal members who sought private financing to buy homes were limited to one or two lenders and dealers of manufactured housing who tended to charge very high interest rates. Having banks offer loans on the reservation will help build much needed housing, and encourage economic development and private enterprise, Mr. Kristovich said. ''I've been pushing for them to come for years.'' 
 Mr. Abrahamson, who lives in a complex of manufactured homes owned by his parents, brothers and sisters -- ''I call it Abrahamson estates,'' he said -- has spent the last eight years paying 8.75 percent interest on an original loan of $44,000. He has watched, hands tied, as mortgage rates dropped to historic lows. 
 Inside the three-bedroom home, Mr. Abrahamson's 4-year-old daughter, Kirstyn, showed off the dress she was planning to wear to the ''jingle dance'' competition at the Spokane powwow that evening. Her father kicked open a sticky front door. ''See why I need the money?'' he said. 
 Mr. Abrahamson took $35,000 cash out as part of a $74,000 refinancing package. The Section 184 loan with AmericanWest, which took three months to process, reduces his interest rate to 6.375 percent. ''It's going to save me a bundle,'' he said. 
 Last June, the Section 184 program in Washington State expanded to include tribal members living off the reservation. The expansion encourages banks to finance Native American homes and extends the program's benefits -- including low down payments and no mortgage insurance -- to all Native Americans, said Evanlene Melting Tallow, a specialty mortgage broker with AmericanWest. 
 In August, Clint Kieffer and his wife, Dinah, moved from the Spokane reservation to a 1910 bungalow in Harrington, a small town about 50 miles west of the reservation. Without the Section 184 program, the couple would have been forced to take out two mortgages and would have had to pay a percentage point more than their current 5.73 interest rate, Mrs. Kieffer said. 
 Until the move, Mr. Kieffer, a former Bureau of Indian Affairs police officer who is now unemployed, had been a lifelong resident of the reservation. ''Unless you want to work at the casino or the tribe, there's not a lot to do,'' he said. Their new house is also closer to the family's church and their daughters' sports clubs, Mr. Kieffer said. 
 Mrs. Kieffer is not a Native American. She said land trust laws could have complicated efforts to will tribal property to their children or resulted in the loss of her home in the event of her husband's death. ''That's not security,'' she said. 
 Back on the reservation, other homeowners highlighted the complexities associated with tribal housing regulations -- with or without the special lending program. Clifford Brisbois and his girlfriend, Cammi Swearngin, recently bought a three-bedroom house up the road from his mother, grandmother and uncle. 
 Ms. Swearngin and Mr. Brisbois, who is a carpenter, were turned down by several banks before they found the Wells Fargo Section 184 program. ''The other banks didn't like the trust land,'' Ms. Swearngin said. But after finally initiating the application process with Wells Fargo, the couple received an unexpected loan they had applied for long before, from Tribal Credit, a reservation agency with limited housing money and a waiting list of up to two years. 
 Like all buyers on the reservation, Mr. Brisbois and Ms. Swearngin had to sign a 50-year lease for the land with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, which allots one and a half acres per tribal member. The lease process alone, Ms. Swearngin said, took eight months. ''Everything takes a long time here,'' she said. But it has been worth it to her. ''We're proud of our home,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: MORTGAGE HELP -- Ray Blackwater gets mortgage information from Evanlene Melting Tallow, left. Clifford Brisbois and Cammi Swearngin, far left top, and Rodney Abrahamson, center, live on the Spokane Indian Reservation. Clint and Dinah Kieffer bought elsewhere. (Photographs by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); ETHNICITY (73%); DANCE (73%); COMMUNITY BANKS (72%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (71%); CITIES (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); AMERICANWEST BANK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (84%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (90%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



422 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Black Leaders Say Storm Forced Bush to Confront Issues of Race and Poverty

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and ANNE E. KORNBLUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Hurricane Katrina has forced President Bush to confront the issues of race and poverty in a way that has shaken his presidency and altered his priorities, African-American leaders of both parties said this week. 
 One of the most striking developments, they said, was that while Mr. Bush still calls himself a ''compassionate conservative'' who sees the problems of blacks as largely economic, in the last three days he embraced civil rights language from the 1960's about ''the legacy of inequality'' and pledged billions of dollars to rebuild one of the poorest urban areas in America.
Many black leaders, who have newfound political leverage at the White House in the wake of the storm, cautiously applauded. But they said Mr. Bush's promises of help on housing, education, taxes and job training in two speeches -- a prime-time address in New Orleans on Thursday night and remarks at a day of remembrance for storm victims at Washington's National Cathedral on Friday -- were only the beginning. 
 ''Katrina has posed a challenge to the White House and the country regarding the great divide, which is race and class in America,'' said the Rev. Eugene F. Rivers III, the president of the National Ten Point Leadership Foundation, a coalition that represents primarily black churches. ''It's a challenge and an opportunity which can be won or lost, and ultimately it is the decision of the White House as to which way it goes.''
 Leaders like Mr. Rivers, a Democrat and a supporter of Mr. Bush, said the White House still had serious repair work to do among blacks after the images of the desperate and dying victims of the hurricane so shocked the nation and the world. A major first step, they said, was to include blacks in the millions of dollars in contracts to rebuild New Orleans.
 ''President Bush needs to ensure that we do not see racial divisions reproduced in the reconstruction effort as white millionaires get richer,'' Mr. Rivers said.
 T.D. Jakes, the black television evangelist who delivered the sermon before Mr. Bush's speech at the National Cathedral, issued a similar warning. ''I do think that African-Americans are waiting to see what this administration is going to do about this crisis,'' Bishop Jakes said Friday. ''If the appropriate actions are taken in an expeditious, competent way, I think then our community will re-evaluate our opinions of this administration.''
 But Mr. Bush, who specifically noted in his speech that the federal government's rebuilding effort would include loans to minority-owned businesses, has already drawn criticism for his administration's decision to suspend the Davis-Bacon Act, the law that requires employers to pay the local prevailing wage to construction workers on federally financed projects. 
 The White House rationale for the decision, announced Thursday, was not only to reduce the cost to taxpayers for the rebuilding of the Gulf Coast, estimated at as much as $200 billion, but to open up the bidding to minority-owned businesses that have not historically contracted with the federal government.
 That explanation did not satisfy critics of Mr. Bush like the Rev. Jesse Jackson. ''It's a hurricane for the poor and a windfall for the rich,'' Mr. Jackson said after the president's speech in New Orleans. Mr. Jackson likened the structure for assistance to the region, federal financial aid managed under local control in the states, to the post-Reconstruction era that allowed segregation to take hold in the South.
 At the very least, black leaders said, Hurricane Katrina set back the long-term plans of Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, and Ken Mehlman, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, to bring more blacks, a longtime Democratic constituency, into the Republican fold. 
 Before the hurricane, their plan appeared to be working on the margins: Mr. Bush received 9 percent of the black vote in 2000 and 11 percent in 2004, an increase that Republicans attribute in part to their courting of conservative black religious leaders like Bishop Jakes and money sent to black churches and charities through a White House religion-based initiative.
 Republican political strategists point out that many middle-class blacks have views on social and economic issues that are consistent with those of Republicans, even if blacks as a group have traditionally voted for Democrats.
 ''The fact is, there are millions of African-Americans who are conservative, who are with the Republican Party on a number of issues, and agree with us that the path to prosperity is a path based on opportunity and ownership and empowerment,'' Mr. Mehlman said. 
 Like other supporters of Mr. Bush, Mr. Mehlman said he was outraged by the charges of racism at the White House, which increased after the president's mother, Barbara Bush, said in a radio interview that many of the people she had seen while touring a Houston relocation site were faring better than before the storm hit. ''So many of the people in the arena here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this is working very well for them,'' Mrs. Bush said.
 Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, distanced Mr. Bush from his mother's comment by calling it a ''personal observation,'' while Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, the administration's most prominent African-American, vehemently rejected any suggestion that Mr. Bush would discriminate on the basis of race.
 ''I find it very strange to think that people would think that the president of the United States would sit deciding who ought to be helped on the basis of color, most especially this president,'' Ms. Rice said in an interview at The New York Times on Monday. ''What evidence is there that this is the case? Why would you say such a thing?''
 Some African Americans say that, remarkably, the hurricane has had the effect of pushing Mr. Bush to propose such sweeping Great Society-type programs -- the president called on Thursday for an Urban Homesteading Act to provide free land for low-income storm victims -- that conservative members of his own party are in an uproar about the expense. Until now, Mr. Bush's chief poverty program was the No Child Left Behind Act, an education initiative that is meant to largely benefit disadvantaged minority students.
 ''We've all known that there are these big pockets of isolated deprivation and disadvantage in the country,'' said John DiIulio, the first director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. ''Everybody seems to have taken their crack at it, but certain aspects of the poverty problem are stubborn. The reality is, having everybody wake up to the problem is a good thing. I know it's fashionable in Washington to see differences, but I've always felt there's a lot more goodwill and a lot more possibility for statesmanship. This crisis I think is going to bring that out.''
 Whatever happens, both blacks and whites said, the hurricane has defined Mr. Bush's second term, for better or worse.
 ''There are usually two ways that presidents do important things,'' said Michael Beschloss, a presidential historian. ''One is that they see an urgent need, and they bring it before the public and address it. Other times it's an incident that changes the country, and changes the presidency.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RELIGION (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); CONSTRUCTION (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



423 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Germans Vote Today but Appear So Divided That the Winner Could Emerge Weak

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
After a hard-fought and acrimonious campaign, Germany goes to the polls on Sunday facing what, on the surface, would seem to be a historic choice between a sort of politics as usual on one side and a bold departure on the other.
 Continuity is represented by Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, a classic figure of the moderate left in Germany, who has campaigned on this theme: things are getting better in Germany thanks to the changes he put into place during the last several years, changes that have preserved Germany's system of social welfare and protections for working-class people.
The departure is represented by Mr. Schroder's rival, Angela Merkel, who, though the leader of the Christian Democratic Union, Germany's classic right-of-center party, comes from outside the German mainstream. She is a woman; she is a former physicist from the former East Germany; she is an outsider even to the other power brokers in her party. 
 Even more unusual, Mrs. Merkel says that things are not getting better in Germany, which has an unemployment rate of nearly 12 percent, a record high deficit and essentially zero economic growth for five consecutive years. Moreover, she argues, time is running out. She is the first major candidate in decades in Germany to campaign on the notion that things will not get better unless far more is done to bring the country toward a genuine free market, with fewer expensive social protections than Germany has long grown used to.
 ''We urgently need a political change in Germany,'' Mrs. Merkel says in her stump speech. In a well-publicized moment of the campaign, during a televised debate, she turned to Mr. Schroder and declared, ''You have failed.''
 But the truth is that few analysts in Germany are looking at the current contest as historic, and the reason is simple: True, Mr. Schroder and Mrs. Merkel represent very different philosophies, with Mrs. Merkel something new on the scene -- a genuine, Anglo-American free-market figure who actually has a good chance of being chancellor. But many analysts contend that the electorate is so divided, so uncertain and nervous, that barring a late decisive turn, whoever is elected will be in a weak position, tied up in complicated coalition politics that will leave little room for bold initiatives.
 ''This election would be a vote on a complete change of political direction, if there were different coalition alternatives,'' said Jurgen Falter, a professor of political science at Mainz University.
 ''Mrs. Merkel herself represents a major ideological difference,'' Mr. Falter continued, ''but she won't be a dictator for a certain period, like Maggie Thatcher used to be, because she has to go into a coalition. Her party is already a sort of coalition, including Social Christians on one side and neo-liberal entrepreneurs on the other, so it's always a compromise.''
 Only a few weeks ago, Mrs. Merkel and her likely coalition partner, the pro-business Free Democratic Party, seemed almost assured of getting an absolute majority in Parliament.
 Even that majority might not have assured Mrs. Merkel's ability to push through a tough program of change because, as Mr. Falter said, many of the powerful figures in her own party do not share her philosophy. German political analysts hold different views on this question, with some contending that Mrs. Merkel will be stymied by resistance from rivals in her own camp even if she gets an absolute majority, and others arguing that she is a shrewd, capable leader who will find ways to overcome that resistance.
 ''Merkel is permanently underestimated,'' said Wolfgang Nowak, a former adviser to Mr. Schroder who now supports Mrs. Merkel. ''All her enemies underestimated her, but where are these enemies now? If she was the weak leader that everybody describes, then she never would have gotten to where she is today.''
 In any case, over the past couple of weeks, with Mr. Schroder portraying Mrs. Merkel as a radical who would destroy Germany's social welfare system, the race has tightened, and, with upward of 30 percent of the electorate listed as undecided, anything is possible, including a return to power for Mr. Schroder.
 More likely, at least according to the polls, Mrs. Merkel's Christian Democratic Union, in combination with its usual coalition partner, the pro-business Free Democratic Party, will get the most seats in Parliament, making her chancellor, but she may well fall short of getting an absolute majority.
 If she fails to control a majority in the Parliament, her only option as chancellor would be what is called a ''grand coalition,'' in which Mrs. Merkel's C.D.U. would attempt to govern together with its ideological rivals in Mr. Schroder's camp, though most likely not including Mr. Schroder.
 Few analysts of this country's political scene are of the opinion that a grand coalition is in the German interest.
 ''If the two most powerful parties always have to find agreement on the biggest subjects, what will happen is nothing,'' said Reinhardt Schlinkert, the leader of Dimap, one of Germany's biggest public opinion research groups. ''It would be the worst possible solution for Germany.'' 
 Mr. Schroder called the election a year earlier than required by German law after his party suffered several stunning defeats in state elections. Mr. Schroder had spent much of the previous three years getting his own often recalcitrant party to accept a modest program of economic change known as Agenda 2010 that cut some welfare benefits and reduced corporate taxes in an effort to enliven the German economy.
 Because Mr. Schroder failed to show any improvement in Germany's unemployment figures during his seven years as chancellor, however, he seemed essentially to be engineering his own early retirement by calling for early elections
 But he has campaigned hard and effectively, and, according to some of his critics, dishonestly, arguing that Mrs. Merkel's program would be unfair and unjust. Meanwhile, Mrs. Merkel has led what has been, by most accounts, a lackluster campaign, devoid of stirring remarks or even of what could be called an articulate vision.
 About three weeks ago, for example, she said she would name Paul Kirchhoff, an economist who advocates radical tax change in Germany, as her finance minister. When Mr. Kirchhoff was portrayed by the Social Democratic Party as a danger to the average German, Mrs. Merkel began publicly backpedaling, trying to assure voters that Mr. Kirchhoff's ideas on taxes were not official Christian Democratic Union policy.
 Still, in the view of many people here, Mrs. Merkel remains a candidate of potentially historic stature because of Germany's dire straits, a belief shared by many experts in the German economy who say that sustaining high social spending without more radical change is to ensure a slow and painful decline.
 ''We have gotten used to this five million people unemployed, and to a public deficit that's 4 percent of G.D.P., and with a zero growth economy,'' said Thomas Straubhaar, president of the Institute for International Economics in Hamburg. ''Germany is still wealthy enough to maintain a European standard of living for the next 5 to 10 years, but that's like saying when you get older you don't expect to be able to run fast. Your wish is just to keep up.''
 ''One day,'' Mr. Straubhaar continued, ''the slowdown becomes irreversible, like it did in Latin American, like in Argentina.''
 For people like Mr. Straubhaar, Mrs. Merkel represents the best hope that the process will not become irreversible, but he also says she is something of a lone ranger, riding against not just the flow of much public sentiment, but against the reflexes of many powerful figures in her own party.
 ''Compared to the United States, there is no clear message from the C.D.U. about an individualist, market-oriented economic policy,'' he said. ''The program is piecemeal. It's not a vision. It's a sort of muddling through.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the German parliamentary election misspelled the surname of an adviser to Angela Merkel, the Christian Democratic candidate for chancellor, and misstated his profession. He is Paul Kirchof, not Kirchoff, a law professor at the University of Heidelberg, not an economist.
An article on Sunday about the German parliamentary election misspelled the surname of an adviser to Angela Merkel, the Christian Democratic candidate for chancellor, and misstated his profession, and a correction in this space yesterday again misspelled his name. He is Paul Kirchhof, a law professor at the University of Heidelberg, not an economist.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, top, at an election rally in Berlin on Friday and his challenger, Angela Merkel, above, before a rally there on the same day. Germany was set to vote today after a hard-fought campaign. (Photo by Kai Pfaffenbach/Reuters)
 (Pool photograph by Michael Dalder)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); RELIGION (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (56%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%); ANGELA MERKEL (90%) Richard Bernstein; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Angela Merkel

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Germany; Germany

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



424 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Leader Refuses to End Nuclear Effort

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
In an unyielding address before the United Nations General Assembly on Saturday afternoon, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran rebuffed attempts to rein in his country's nuclear program, railing against the United States as an aggressor and restating a compromise proposal that had already been rejected.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad repeatedly stressed that Iran would not relinquish its ''right to pursue peaceful nuclear energy'' and accused the United States of bullying others and attempting to divide the world into ''light and dark countries,'' repeatedly clenching his fist and jabbing his finger in the air for emphasis.
American and European officials had been anxiously awaiting Mr. Ahmadinejad's address, hoping it would offer either a solution to end months of standoff or provide ammunition in their drive to send Iran to the United Nations Security Council for possible political and economic sanctions because of Iran's attempts to hide the extent of its nuclear program. Iran, meanwhile, has maintained that it is not seeking nuclear weapons and has the right to process uranium for nuclear fuel. 
 Shortly after Mr. Ahmadinejad's speech, a senior Bush administration official said, ''This doesn't help Iran's case.''
 Mr. Ahmadinejad used most of his 29-minute speech to inveigh against the United States and its allies, including accusing Americans of brutalizing Iraqis and Afghanis and trying to impose a nuclear energy regime in Iran that he called ''apartheid.'' 
 ''Every day they are threatening other nations with nuclear weapons, and they are never inspected,'' he said. He added that Western countries were ''relying on their power and wealth to try to impose a climate of intimidation and injustice over the world,'' even while portraying themselves as defenders of freedom, democracy and human rights. The State Department said it was analyzing the speech on Saturday night. But a senior administration official called it ''a very aggressive speech that appeared to cross several EU-3 red lines,'' he said, referring to European negotiating points with Iran. 
 Only one element of what Mr. Ahmadinejad described as an eight-point plan to resolve the standoff over its nuclear program was an actual proposal. That was his offer ''to engage in a serious partnership with private and public sectors of other countries in the implementation of the uranium enrichment program in Iran.'' 
 Under that idea, Iran would pursue uranium enrichment in concert with other countries -- South Africa has been mentioned -- so the West could be assured that the product was for peaceful use only. When that idea was offered earlier, the United States and Europe rejected it, saying they did not trust the Iranians not to cheat. Mr. Ahmadinejad did not refer to that earlier discussion in his speech.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad has kept a tough stance against attempts to limit Iranian nuclear technology. Soon after he took office in June, Iran resumed the processing of uranium, in defiance of the United Nations. 
 During a news conference after his speech, he maintained that Iran needed nuclear power, even though it is has abundant oil, because eventually ''the oil is going to run out.'' 
 He spoke just 48 hours before the United Nations agency in charge of nuclear proliferation was to meet in Vienna to decide what next steps to take against Iran. 
 For several weeks, the United States and its European allies have been urging members of this group, the International Atomic Energy Agency, to refer Iran to the Security Council for sanctions because of its nuclear program. But as of Saturday morning, they said they did not have the votes. As a result, officials were debating whether it was wise to push a vote now. 
 But immediately after Mr. Ahmadinejad's address, Philippe Douste-Blazy, the French foreign minister, said, ''What I heard today makes me predict that the option of reporting Iran to the Security Council remains on the agenda.'' France, England and Germany have been negotiating with Iran over its nuclear program. 
 Mr. Douste-Blazy added that he was ''very concerned'' that Mr. Ahmadinejad reaffirmed his country's desire to develop nuclear fuel technology ''without taking into account the worries of the international community.'' 
 During Mr. Ahmadinejad's address, the American delegation chairs were empty except for one person who was there to take notes. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice scheduled meetings in New York with the Japanese and South Korean foreign ministers during his talk. 
 More than an hour after his address, she said in a statement that she had not been able to hear it because she was in meetings, but added, ''Iran's behavior in the past'' has ''left the world with a lack of confidence on Iran's willingness to live up to its obligations.'' 
 Just three days ago, she indicated that the United States had given up on getting a Security Council referral now. ''I think the issue of a referral is something that we'll be working for a while,'' she said in an interview with Fox News. Still, President Bush continued pushing on Friday, saying, ''The world will see to it that Iran goes to the U.N. Security Council if it does not live up to its agreements.'' Speaking to the United Nations General Assembly on Saturday morning, Ms. Rice made the argument that the United Nations could look weak if it does not stand up to Iran. 
 ''Challenges like that of Iran are fundamental tests for the United Nations,'' she said. ''The experience of recent years has reinforced the universal truth that international institutions are only as strong, and effective, and relevant as their members choose to make them.'' 
 Before Mr. Ahmadinejad's speech, Bush administration officials appeared conflicted over how to proceed. Some were arguing that the United States should push for a vote, even with the outcome uncertain. Others were calling for delay as all them awaited Mr. Ahmadinejad's address, hoping it clarify the situation in one direction or another. 
 His remarks during a visit to Turkey on Thursday caught Washington's attention. There he suggested Iran might share its nuclear technology with other Muslim nations. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad said, ''Iran is ready to transfer nuclear know-how to the Islamic countries due to their need.'' On Saturday, he asserted that ''the quote was incomplete,'' but did not explain further.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, with a United Nations usher, before his address at the General Assembly session yesterday. (Photo by Daniel Berehulak/Getty Images)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



425 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer, His Candidacy Assured, Campaigns in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and FERNANDA SANTOS; Winnie Hu contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Fernando Ferrer began the first real weekend of the general election campaign quietly shoring up support among backers of his former rivals for the Democratic nomination, while Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg continued efforts to make inroads into Mr. Ferrer's own base of Hispanic voters.
 Making his first weekend appearance as the de facto Democratic nominee, Mr. Ferrer wore a striped button-down shirt, khaki pants and sturdy shoes for a trip to a Brooklyn farmer's market -- one situated, not coincidentally, in Park Slope, a bastion of support for Congressman Anthony D. Weiner, the second-place finisher in last week's primary.''I need your help in November,'' Mr. Ferrer told some of the well-wishers who stopped to shake his hand as he strolled past stands selling organic hot peppers and apple-and-sage sausages, staples of the Prospect Park Greenmarket and favorites among its brownstone clientele. 
Mr. Ferrer was looking ahead solely to the general election, although the final vote count from last Tuesday's Democratic primary has not been completed. It is uncertain if a runoff will be necessary, but Mr. Weiner has already said he will not contest such an election. Officials are still counting thousands of paper ballots and double-checking vote totals.
 The Brooklyn shoppers who spoke with Mr. Ferrer yesterday voiced their concerns about the proposed redevelopment of downtown Brooklyn and the state of the school system, and several of them suggested that Mr. Bloomberg did not care enough about the working class.
 But Joan Chambers, 37, a mortgage broker who lives in Clinton Hill, stopped simply to ask Mr. Ferrer if he planned to repeal Mr. Bloomberg's smoking ban in virtually all public places. ''That would be a big mistake,'' Ms. Chambers said. ''As much as people hated it at the time, you have to agree it's much more pleasant to go to a bar in New York City.''
 Although Mr. Ferrer enjoys strong support in New York's Latino community, he will most likely need to find some support among New York's white middle class if he is to unseat Mr. Bloomberg on Nov. 8. Yesterday, he depicted himself as the candidate of all New Yorkers left out of the city's economic revival, not just those who are black or Hispanic.
 ''I'm reaching out, and it's not on the basis of color or religion or ethnicity or language,'' Mr. Ferrer said. ''I'm reaching out to New Yorkers who believe as I do that we've got to have a city that works better for every one of us.''
 Michael Gross, 53, a father of three who voted for Mr. Weiner in the primary, said that Mr. Ferrer should emphasize his ideas on improving subway security and reducing crime.
 He and his wife, Barbara Grossman, 54, still plan to vote for Mr. Ferrer, even though Ms. Grossman finds no reason to criticize Mr. Bloomberg.
 ''I don't have a problem with our current mayor,'' Ms. Grossman said. ''I think he's doing a pretty good job, but I think Freddy could do a better one.''
 Mr. Bloomberg spoke in Spanish yesterday to supporters at the Iglesia de Cristo Misionera in Bushwick, Brooklyn, where he received the endorsement of the Association of Hispanic Ministers. The association, which represents 250 ministers primarily in Brooklyn, also endorsed Mr. Bloomberg in the 2001 election.
 Bishop Julio Mercado, the association's president, said the association decided to support Mr. Bloomberg again because of his efforts to improve schools and city agencies like the Police Department. ''If it's not broken, why fix it?'' he said.
 Afterward, Mr. Bloomberg returned to Manhattan to march in the 48th annual German-American Steuben Parade on Fifth Avenue.
 Mr. Ferrer also released statements yesterday attacking the mayor for his veto of recently passed City Council legislation on health care and for a forthcoming increase in property tax rates for homeowners.
 New Yorkers who are ''still reeling from the effects of Mike Bloomberg's historic 18.5 percent property tax increase,'' Mr. Ferrer said in a statement, ''are now being hit with a new 4.3 percent tax increase, the second largest increase in a generation, second only to Bloomberg's first hit.'' ''No wonder they re not feeling much relief from Bloomberg's $400 tax rebate check.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Ferrer on the campaign trail yesterday at the Green Market in Park Slope, Brooklyn, an area that heavily supports Anthony D. Weiner. (Photo by Robert Caplin/The New York Times)
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg greeted onlookers yesterday as he marched on Fifth Avenue in the German-American Steuben Parade. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (76%); BALLOTS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (66%); RELIGION (60%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (50%); SMOKING BANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); ANTHONY D WEINER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



426 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2589 words

HEADLINE: Whoops! There Goes Another Pension Plan

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
ROBERT S. MILLER is a turnaround artist with a Dickensian twist. He unlocks hidden value in floundering Rust Belt companies by jettisoning their pension plans. His approach, copied by executives at airlines and other troubled companies, can make the people who rely on him very rich. But it may be creating a multibillion-dollar mess for taxpayers later.
 As chief executive of Bethlehem Steel in 2002, Mr. Miller shut down the pension plan, leaving a federal program to meet the company's $3.7 billion in unfunded obligations to retirees. That turned the moribund company into a prime acquisition target. Wilbur L. Ross, a so-called vulture investor, snapped it up, combined it with four other dying steel makers he bought at about the same time, and sold the resulting company for $4.5 billion -- a return of more than 1,000 percent in just three years on the $400 million he paid for all five companies. 
Two years later, as the chief executive of Federal-Mogul, an auto parts maker in Southfield, Mich., Mr. Miller worked on winding up a pension plan for some 37,000 employees in England. The British authorities balked at the idea, fearing that such a move would swamp the pension insurance fund that Britain was creating; it began operations only last April. But the investor Carl C. Icahn has placed a big bet that Federal-Mogul will pay off after the pension plan is gone; he has bought its bonds at less than 20 cents on the dollar and is offering money to help the insurance fund. He, too, stands to make millions. 
 Now Mr. Miller is at Delphi, the auto parts maker that was spun off by General Motors in 1999. If past is prologue, one of the most powerful turnaround tools at his disposal will be his ability to ditch Delphi's pension fund. He did not return numerous telephone calls seeking his views for this article, but in the past he has said that his first priority at Delphi was to ''resolve'' its ''uncompetitive labor cost structure.'' That includes the roughly $5.1 billion gap between the pensions it has promised employees and the amount it has put aside to pay for them. 
 If the obligation to make good on Delphi's pensions eventually lands, in whole or in part, at the door of a governmental guarantor, few should be surprised. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation has become an increasingly popular option for private-capital funds and other investors who are seeking to spin investments in near-bankrupt industrial companies into gold. The key is to shift the responsibility for pensions, which weigh as heavily as bank loans on a company's balance sheet, to the pension corporation.
 The same financial alchemy has been performed at Polaroid and US Airways, at textile companies like Cone Mills and WestPoint Stevens, and at a host of smaller companies over the last four years. And bankruptcy specialists say that it is almost certain to keep happening, because shedding pensions -- and pensioners' health care obligations -- is turning into an irresistible way to make a high-risk investment pay off. 
 ''It's become a kind of system to bail out companies,'' Thomas Conway, vice president of the United Steel Workers of America, said of the pension corporation, which Congress created in 1974 to protect retirees if their employers went bust. ''People have been able to use it tactically, as a business strategy, and I don't think that's what Congress meant.''
 Over the long term, the rate of defaults is clearly rising, said Lynn M. LoPucki, a professor of law at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has tracked the large companies that have shed their pension plans while in bankruptcy since 1980. 
 Less obvious is precisely how the trend will ultimately affect retirees, who sometimes have their pensions cut in the process. The cuts appear to be hitting more and more workers, but the government has not calculated how many since 1998.
 Nor is it certain how the trend will affect taxpayers, who may wind up on the hook if the rising tide of failed pension obligations overwhelms the resources of the pension corporation. A year ago, when the agency last reported its balance sheet, it had $39 billion in assets and $62.3 billion in liabilities, leaving a shortfall of $23 billion. The Congressional Budget Office on Friday estimated that the deficit will widen to $86.7 billion by 2015 and $141.9 billion by 2025.
 Mr. Ross, the investor who picked up the five dying steel companies, said he also thought that the current practice of sending failed pension plans to the federal guarantor ''needs some reforming.'' 
 But, he added, the private sector was not to blame. ''If we're going to continue defined-benefit pension plans at all,'' he said, ''I really think we need to look at who enforces the rules, what the rules should be, and why there isn't a meaningful, risk-based system.''
 In a risk-based pension insurance system, companies that run failure-prone pension funds would pay higher premiums than the companies that manage their pension plans more conservatively. But instead of charging more, the government has been waiving the pension rules, he said. ''When you start giving people waivers,'' he said, ''you're creating a time bomb.''
 Like defaulting on a loan, terminating a pension plan significantly lightens a company's balance sheet: the business instantly becomes more valuable because it does not have to use its cash flow to pay for past mistakes. 
 But defaulting on a loan affects the lender, who presumably vetted the borrower and charged interest commensurate with the risk. Defaulting on a pension, on the other hand, affects the pension corporation, which is required by law to accept a low premium unrelated to the risks it takes.
 James A. Wooten, a pension-law historian who is a professor at the University at Buffalo Law School, said that Congress knew it was creating an imperfect system when it established the pension corporation in 1974, and that it expected to make improvements later. The bill was highly contentious, and Congressional leaders struggled mightily to achieve compromise in the last chaotic months of the Nixon presidency, with the Watergate scandal roaring around them.
 In the beginning, they set pension insurance premiums at a token $1 per employee. Today, the basic premium is up to $19 a head, but Congress has found it hard to raise the rates even remotely enough to cover growing claims. Some companies have warned that if they have to pay more for their pension insurance, they will stop offering pensions.
 ''They took cautious steps, and those cautious steps weren't enough to prevent the abuse of the insurance program,'' Mr. Wooten said. ''Once there's insurance, you have an incentive to run up liabilities to get more out of the insurance.''
 MR. MILLER'S arrival at Delphi in July, and the intense labor negotiations that have followed, are signals that the auto parts industry may be in for a long cycle of bankruptcies and restructurings, like those that reshaped steelmakers and are beginning to transform airlines.
 ''Something has to happen to all of these liabilities and cost structures,'' said Mr. Ross, who has said that he may invest in Delphi, the world's largest auto parts supplier, after those changes are made. ''Delphi needs to sort out these complicated relationships before anybody will buy it. Something has to change.''
 Delphi isn't the only troubled automotive company to catch Mr. Ross's eye. He has also expressed an interest in Collins & Aikman, a manufacturer of automotive interiors that is already in bankruptcy, and he recently invested $30 million in a French auto parts maker, Oxford Automotive. But because of Delphi's size and its relationship with G.M., its former parent, any big cuts in its so-called legacy costs -- mainly pensions and retiree health care -- would send reverberations through the auto industry.
 No one says it will be easy for Mr. Miller to cast off Delphi's pension plan -- it never is -- but he was dealt a good hand when he came to the company. Not only would the federal pension guarantor end up with at least part of Delphi's plan if the company went bankrupt, but the company could also rely on an unusual promise that G.M. made to the United Automobile Workers seven years ago -- in far better times -- that it would take over any part of the Delphi pension plan that the pension agency refused. Generally, the agency caps pension payouts at about $45,000 a year, to workers who are 65 when the plan fails. For younger workers, the limits are a good deal lower. 
 G.M.'s involvement means that Delphi workers -- unlike many unlucky employees of Bethlehem, United Airlines and Polaroid -- might not lose any benefits if their plan were taken over by the government. 
 (G.M. also promised to assume all medical costs for retirees if Delphi faltered, an obligation estimated at $9.6 billion. Securities analysts have been parsing the language of the promise, trying to determine if G.M. must really shoulder this entire amount, and the extent to which Delphi would have to pay G.M. if it rebounded later. G.M. has its own heavy obligations to retirees and can ill afford to take on more.)
 Savvy investors know that the existence of these two guarantees gives Mr. Miller great power -- the right, if he needs it, to make someone else pay Delphi's large and growing debt to its work force. If he plays his hand skillfully, Delphi could end up shedding billions of dollars of debt without depriving unionized employees of any promised benefits.
 To unload the pension fund, however, Delphi would have to declare bankruptcy; a company cannot send an unwanted pension plan to the government without first persuading a bankruptcy judge that it cannot otherwise survive. And if Delphi is to file bankruptcy, it may have to decide quickly. New, stricter bankruptcy laws take effect on Oct. 17, and companies that declare bankruptcy after that date will face a range of restrictions on how much they can pay in executive bonuses and on how long they can take to work on their reorganization plans.
 Mr. Ross said that he was not privy to the negotiations at Delphi but that he thought it likely that Mr. Miller would declare bankruptcy before the law tightened. ''Delphi's a big company,'' Mr. Ross said. ''I think he'd be very concerned about his ability to retain a whole management team there'' if he could not pay bonuses. And controlling the schedule for reorganization is an important tool for debtors negotiating with creditors. ''I would be shocked if he would give up the leverage that that tool gives him,'' Mr. Ross said.
 But other analysts speculated that Mr. Miller might well delay a bankruptcy filing past Oct. 17 because he could win wage concessions from the union if he kept the pension plan going. ''The carrot that he has to offer is, 'If you keep working for an extra year, you get more benefits, and those benefits are more valuable to you because those benefits are guaranteed not by us, but by G.M. and the P.B.G.C.,''' said Jeremy I. Bulow, a economics professor at Stanford. ''That's something Delphi can use as a negotiating tool.''
 While that may be good news for Delphi, its workers and its shareholders, it could be very bad news for G.M., the pension agency -- and perhaps, ultimately, taxpayers. ''The policy problem is that we let companies get this deeply in hock to the federal government,'' Professor Bulow said. ''It's kind of a rolling the dice, a heads-I-win-tails-you-lose kind of thing.''
 COMPARED with Delphi, Bethlehem Steel looked grim when Mr. Miller arrived in September 2001. Like other big integrated steel makers in the United States, Bethlehem had been fighting a losing 20-year battle with foreign competition and low-cost domestic mini-mills. ''I came here to find a way not to file for Chapter 11,'' Mr. Miller said upon his arrival. But by mid-October, Bethlehem was in bankruptcy.
 The company was being killed by its legacy costs -- the accumulated promises to retirees it had been making for decades. Bethlehem had whittled down its work force over the years in an effort to cut costs, but by doing so it simply created more retirees to whom it owed pensions and health benefits. 
 By the time Mr. Miller took over, the company had some 95,000 retirees and just 12,000 active workers to generate enough revenue to pay their benefits -- a hopeless proposition. Retiree health care alone was costing Bethlehem about $125 million a year. In the 1990's, the stock market boom made its pension fund look healthy, but when the boom ended and the pension funds' assets fell, the company had to make up the difference. By November 2002, Bethlehem faced liquidation.
 That is when Mr. Ross stepped in. A big concern then -- as it is now at Delphi, the airlines and elsewhere -- was the pension plan. When the time came to turn it over to the pension agency, officials there realized that Mr. Ross was poised to set off as much as $550 million in extra ''shutdown'' benefits -- available only to workers idled by a plant closing -- by briefly shutting some operations before taking over. The government would have to pay the workers' basic pensions in any case; federal officials thought that if the workers were to get any additional money, it should come from Mr. Ross. (Shutdown benefits are an option that is also available to Delphi.) 
 Steelworkers applauded these arrangements, but the pension corporation seized Bethlehem's pension plan before Mr. Miller had the chance to shut down operations and activate the extra benefits. The union, Mr. Miller and Mr. Ross all complained, but Mr. Ross nonetheless found enough additional money to offer retiring employees $50,000 buyouts and to set up a trust fund to pay for LTV and Bethlehem retirees' health insurance. ''We felt a moral obligation to those workers, even though we had no legal obligation,'' Mr. Ross said.
 In the end, what bothered Mr. Conway, the union leader, was not so much Mr. Ross's inability to wring more money out of the pension system or his remarkable profit on the deal. What troubled him, he said, was that the country seemed unable to take any lessons away from the demise of the steel companies and how it affected so many working people. ''It just staggers us that America's not caught on to what's happening to it,'' he said.
 ''Here's Ford and General Motors, now competing against a lot of U.S.-based transplant companies that have no obligations to any work force,'' Mr. Conway added, referring to the nonunion factories that Toyota, BMW and other foreign-owned car companies have built in the United States. ''That's a tremendous advantage. How does a mature American industry that has obligations to its work force compete with that?''
 Because global competition is driving the trend, Mr. Ross said the country should look for a new way -- maybe a value-added tax on imports -- to bolster the pension-insurance program or to provide health care to retirees. He said he had suggested this approach to some members of Congress, but in vain. ''So far, they've really seemed more interested in lashing out at China,'' he said.
 For now, people approaching retirement are left to hang on and hope.
 ''What happens is, typically, you've got a boat that holds 40 and you need seats for 50 and people are all trying to hold on till the end of their career and get their promise,'' Mr. Conway said. ''We frankly don't know how to do it, if there's no other assistance out there to help you do it. The P.B.G.C. isn't the solution.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 2005; November 3, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday with an article about possible effects of bankruptcy on pension funds carried an incorrect label. The chart showed the number of large public companies that filed for bankruptcy protection each year from 1980 to 2004, not the number of pension plans taken over by the quasi-governmental Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation in connection with those filings.
A credit on Oct. 26 with a picture of two museum visitors on the bus where Rosa Parks made civil rights history misspelled the surname of the photographer. (The same spelling error also occurred five previous times this year, with pictures of his in various sections of The Times.) He is Fabrizio Costantini, not Constantini.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert S. Miller, who joined the auto parts maker Delphi in July, is focused on cutting labor costs. (Photo by Fabrizio Constantini for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Thomas Conway, above, of the United Steel Workers, says companies misuse the pension guarantee agency. Wilbur Ross, top, says he may invest in Delphi. (Photo by Lauren Victoria Burke for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman/Bloomberg News)(pg. 9)Chart: ''Spike in Defaults''The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation became responsible for the pensions of many more bankrupt companies in 2000, 2001 and 2002 than it had in previous years.Graph tracks number of large companies that have shed their pension plans in connection with bankruptcy (companies with assets over $230 million in current dollars) from 1980 to 2004.(Source by Lynn M. LoPucki [University of California, Los Angeles])(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AIRLINES (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (76%); HOUSEHOLD LINEN MILLS (74%); TEXTILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); TEXTILES (60%) Automobiles; Labor; Organized Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Bankruptcies; Automobiles

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (62%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (57%); FEDERAL-MOGUL CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); WESTPOINT HOME INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%) Delphi Corp; Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%); FDML (NASDAQ) (55%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (57%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS314120 CURTAIN & LINEN MILLS (50%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%) Robert S Miller; Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (55%); UNITED KINGDOM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



427 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2676 words

HEADLINE: Big Tax Increases, Small Tax Rebates

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
IN a few weeks, just as New York City becomes embroiled in a typically noisy mayoral campaign, most homeowners across the boroughs will receive a $400 check in the mail, and most likely a soothing note from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, thanking them for their sacrifices on behalf of the city.
The check is a rebate, the second of three annual $400 payments authorized by the State Legislature to line the pockets and calm the feelings of homeowners upset by an 18.5 percent tax increase adopted at Mr. Bloomberg's request during a fiscal downturn a few years ago.
 But if you get that check, expected to be mailed on Oct. 1 to those who qualify, you might want to take a look at your recent tax bills, because that $400 may not buy as much tax relief as it used to: while property tax bills in New York remain far below the legendary tax bills in the suburbs, they have been rising over the last four years. 
 A review of individual property tax records by The New York Times shows that in the last four years, the tax burden for average owners of private homes, co-ops and condominiums has gone up far more than the $400 rebate -- an average of nearly $1,100 a year (before rebate) across the city.
 And while that is a paltry increase by suburban standards, where the bigger the rise the greater the bragging rights, many taxpayers see it as the beginning of a significant shift in the role of the property tax in New York City. Property taxes have deliberately been kept low over the years to encourage home ownership, with the local income tax making up much of the difference.
 ''It used to be that our real estate taxes could be described as ludicrously low; that is certainly not the case anymore,'' said Patricia Dolan, the president of the Kew Gardens Hills Civic Association, who lives in the small two story-detached house she grew up in on 73rd Terrace. ''We have people who are hurting.''
 In the last four years, tax bills of single-family homes have risen 62 percent, according to the analysis by The Times, including a 4.3 percent tax rate increase set to be adopted by the City Council in the next few months and applied retroactively to July, to comply with complex provisions of the state laws governing city property taxes.
 At the same time, tax bills of individual co-op and condo apartments that were higher, on average, to begin with, have gone up about 43 percent, including a 1.5 percent tax rate increase set to be adopted this fall, to comply with the property tax laws, City Council officials said. Taxes went up an average of $1,680 for condos and $943 for co-ops.
 Driving the tax bills are increasing property values, improved and some say more aggressive assessment practices, and a longstanding policy by the City Council to use extra revenue produced by assessment increases as extra revenue for the city, rather than reducing tax rates. And yet these increases are only the beginning. 
 Though higher market values, in the greatest real estate boom in memory, have been recorded recently by tax assessors, some of the resulting increased assessments have not been added to tax bills. By law, they are being phased into the tax base over many years -- over five years for co-ops and condos and rental apartment buildings; no more than 20 percent over five years for one-, two- and three-family homes; and 30 percent over five years for four- to 10-family buildings.
 As a result, market values already recorded on the books of the Department of Finance, based on last year's sale prices, will eventually generate hundreds of millions of dollars in extra tax payments, in slow but steady increases for years to come: $1,300 a year, on average, for single-family houses at the latest tax rates, $1,100 a year for condos, and $615 for co-ops. (Of course, if the boom goes bust, and property values drop, much of this future tax burden could go away, too.)
 And with prices moving steadily upward, more such increases are likely. In the first half of this year, for instance, average co-op and condo prices in Manhattan rose 33 percent, according to Miller Samuel, a real estate appraisal company based in Manhattan.
 Ms. Dolan's parents bought her house in Kew Gardens, Queens, when it was new in about 1940 for $6,300, with a $5 down payment from winnings in the Irish Sweepstakes (they couldn't afford the extra $350 for a garage behind the house, she said). 
 In the last four years, assessors raised the market value on her house from $277,000 to $500,400, and her annual tax bill went up 50 percent, from $2,028 to $3,040, and will probably continue to $4,355, when the current market value is phased in. Values are still rising in her part of Queens, she said, raising the fears that high taxes will destabilize the finances of elderly people on fixed incomes. 
 She described a neighbor in her 90's, a retired hairdresser who is concerned about her tax bills. ''She has to pay her taxes from whatever savings she has and her Social Security.'' 
 The story of rising taxes is similar in the most affluent neighborhoods in Manhattan, but the order of magnitude is considerably higher, especially for mansions and town houses, and the newest flashiest market-rate condominiums.
 Taxes on Mayor Bloomberg's own 18-foot-wide Upper East Side town house rose from nearly $45,000 four years ago, to about $71,100 this year (less the $400 rebate the records show he is entitled to), an increase of 59 percent. The tax bill will eventually go up to nearly $86,000 based on the latest tax rate and the current market value, $9.1 million, up from $6.4 million four years ago.
 Owners of single-family Manhattan town houses who always thought their taxes were an outrageous bargain, when compared with the suburbs, can no longer say that. Manhattan town houses average nearly $21,800 a year in taxes this year, up $7,600 from four years ago, according to the Times study, and will probably rise to more than $32,300, when future scheduled increases are phased in. 
 Yet these Manhattan homeowners are still getting a significant discount compared with their suburban cousins, because their houses, valued by the Finance Department at an average of more than $3.3 million, are worth more than the average suburban house, and their true tax rate is lower. 
 Another measure of the increase in property taxes is the number of residential properties with tax bills of more than $50,000 a year. Four years ago, 196 properties were listed, compared with 547 this year, with the list topped by new condominiums at the Time Warner Center.
 The highest taxed private house on the list is the 40-foot-wide town house on East 63rd Street of Ronald O. Perelman, the billionaire financier. His taxes are now $192,000 a year, up from about $125,000 four years ago. 
 Older condominiums and co-ops are protected by laws designed to dampen tax increases. For instance, they are assessed as if they were older rental buildings, based on rental income rather than their ever-rising sale prices. Then individual owners get a special abatement of between 17.5 and 25 percent off the taxes due.
 So, in Manhattan, average taxes on condos were up about $2,000 to about $7,140, while co-ops were up about $1,500 to $4,900, per apartment. 
 But newer, luxury condos are assessed considerably higher, as if they were market-rate luxury rental buildings. And among the highest taxed is Donald J. Trump's three-story 6,000-square-foot condo atop Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue. This year's tax bill would have totaled about $188,000 for Mr. Trump. But like most other individual condo and co-op owners, Mr. Trump's apartment qualified for a 17.5 percent condo abatement, saving $32,900 in taxes. (His condo also qualified for a $400 rebate.) Four years ago his tax bill was $111,000, after a $23,600 abatement.
 ''The taxes in this city are ridiculous,'' Mr. Trump said. As for the mayor's $400 rebate, he said: ''That is just wonderful. Today that buys one tank of gas.''
 Last year, Mr. Bloomberg was not shy about publicizing the rebate, posing at a center for the elderly in Queens with a giant cardboard cutout of a rebate check, with his name featured most prominently in the upper left hand corner. 
 This year, the checks are scheduled to go out in the middle of an election. 
 Asked about the timing, Sam Miller, an assistant commissioner at the Department of Finance, said they would be issued the same time of year they were last year, when the timing was dictated by the date the state enabling legislation was passed in Albany. 
 Yet, the rebate program was set up to make it seem as enticing as possible to taxpayers. Most homeowners pay their taxes through their regular monthly mortgage payments to their banks, which in turn pay the city. But the rebates are mailed back directly to the homeowner.
 Similarly, owners of co-op apartments pay their regular taxes to their co-op as part of their monthly maintenance. But the rebate checks are mailed back directly to the individual owners who qualify for them, last year, along with a note from Mr. Bloomberg. (Some co-op boards, however, impose offsetting assessments at the same time to lessen the pain of the assessment.)
 Owners of one- to three-family homes and co-ops and condos who use their homes as their primary residences are eligible for the rebate, but only if they owe less than $25 in back taxes for earlier years. Taxpayers already enrolled in tax exemption programs that have residency requirements are automatically eligible for the rebate. If you received a rebate last year and haven't moved, you will also qualify for this year's rebate, according to city officials.
 Tenants who pay property taxes through their rent checks are not eligible, nor are brownstone owners who live in buildings legally defined as four-family houses, nor are investor owners of rental buildings.
 The rebate was originally set to roughly equal the cost to the average homeowner of the 18.5 percent increase, but as tax burdens have since risen, so has cynicism by individual taxpayers and other public officials, who would rather see a permanent reduction in tax rates than a rebate handed out at the discretion of the government. 
 ''Getting your dollars back is nice,'' said Robert Spalter, who lives with his wife, Laura, in a two-story house in Riverdale, in the Bronx. ''But I don't have any expectation that they will really roll back tax rates ever again.''
 Dee Vandenburg, a state employee, pays only a few hundred dollars a year in taxes on her small Staten Island house, a former summer cottage. But Ms. Vandenburg, who is president of the Staten Island Taxpayers Association, said that ''at some point it is a big thing with working families and a big thing with the seniors on a fixed income.'' 
 Michael Slattery, a senior vice president for research at the Real Estate Board of New York, an industry group, said that at a time when rising property values were being driven by extraordinarily low interest rates, it might make more sense for the city to lower rates as market values go up. 
 But are taxes rising because values are rising or because assessors are more assertive and uncompromising? City Councilman David I. Weprin of Hollis, Queens, chairman of the Finance Committee, said that ''there is no question that assessors have been very aggressive.''
 ''It is troubling,'' he said. He tells of constituents who have seen their official market values rise by 30 percent, three years in a row. He said he is always running into worried constituents who say ''if the property is worth what they say it is, I will sell it to them.''
 In response, Finance Commissioner Martha E. Stark said that her staff was ''doing what it is supposed to do, which is to accurately value properties.'' She took office just as a corruption scandal in the assessors office was laid bare, and put an end to lax assessment practices, in which, city officials said, assessors set informal guidelines, limiting the change in market values from year to year.
 Instead the city used improved computer models to estimate new values for every one- to three-family home in the city each year. 
 Many good-government groups and analysts say the rebate is bad public policy, adding one more layer of complexity and protecting one more special-interest group -- homeowners.
 Many public officials privately agree, but find it difficult to turn down such a popular program. ''You don't hear the Democrats making an issue of property taxes,'' said Edmund J. McMahon Jr., director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy.
 But some economists and policy analysts say that, if anything, property taxes on homeowners are too low in the city, especially viewed against the backdrop of significant rises in market values. 
 Several years ago, the city's Independent Budget Office issued a study concluding that despite its low property taxes, homeowners had a tax burden that was above average in the state because of the city income tax and sales taxes. 
 ''When you factor in all the taxes, homeowners have never gotten the break they think they got,'' Mr. McMahon said. 
 Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist for Halstead Property, a brokerage firm, who previously worked for the Real Estate Board, said he viewed the rebate as ''just a thing to appease voters.'' He said that since property taxes have been kept artificially low for homeowners over many years, many homeowners are convinced they are still getting a bargain, even as their taxes are starting to rise. 
 ''The sad thing for the homeowner is that property taxes should be even higher, so how can they complain,'' he said. ''It is a system that needs to be completely overhauled but probably never will be.''
 Details on the Study
 THE New York Times study of property tax bills reviewed assessment and tax abatement records for all 996,000 tax lots in New York and computed and compared estimated tax bills for the city fiscal years ending in June 2002 and June 2006. 
 The estimates include property tax rate changes under consideration by the New York City Council that would raise tax rates for residential properties and lower them for office buildings and utilities. The increases, retroactive to July 1, would be reflected in bills sent out in January.
 The maps and summary data include only properties with valid tax bills in both years. It excludes properties for which 90 percent or more of the tax burden was eliminated because of abatements or exemptions. The tabulations, therefore, may differ somewhat from figures published by the Department of Finance. In addition, abatement data for 2006 were estimated from the previous year's data. JOSH BARBANEL

 Chart: ''Change in real estate taxes''
 From 2001 to 2005, for all residential properties
 Graph/map tracks amount of rebate due to homeowners next month for New York City.
 (Sources by Analysis of tax assessments and abatements for each apartment or house from the N.Y.C. Department of Finance; N.Y.C. Independent Budget Office; lot boundaries from Lotinfo 2004)(pg. 1)
 Chart: ''Change in real estate taxes''
 From 2001 to 2005, for all residential properties, shown by block
 Graph/map tracks change in real estate taxes for New York City and Staten Island.
 (Sources by Analysis of tax assessments and abatements for each apartment or house from the N.Y.C. Department of Finance; N.Y.C. Independent Budget Office; block boundaries from Lotinfo 2004)(pg. 11)
 Correction: October 2, 2005, Sunday
 An article on Sept. 18 about taxes in New York City described the pattern of rising property taxes imprecisely. The average annual tax bill in 2005 was nearly $1,100 higher than the average bill in 2001. The tax bill did not increase nearly $1,100 each year.
 By the time tax bills reflect higher market values and increased assessments, which will be phased in over many years, projected bills for single family houses will average $1,300 more than the total this year, not $1,300 more per year going forward; condos will end up paying $1,100 more, and co-ops $615 more.

GRAPHIC: Photos: : IN STATEN ISLAND -- Dee Vandenburg said the tax increases will hurt people on fixed incomes.
IN RIVERDALE -- Robert Spalter, with his wife, Laura, does not think taxes will be reduced.
 IN KEW GARDENS HILLS -- Patricia Dolan said her tax bill has gone up 50 percent in four years. (Photographs by Michael Falco for The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SUBURBS (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2006



428 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: CONFIDENCE FACTOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Post-Katrina, Bricks and Mortals

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
WHEN President Bush went to the virtual ghost town of New Orleans on Thursday to champion a plan for its recovery, his words -- ''This great city will rise again'' -- carried familiar echoes. The American way of facing these calamities: get up off the ground, dust (or dry) yourself off and start over. Dream big, and take back what nature took.
 After Hurricane Andrew thrashed Florida in 1992, for instance, a high-powered civic group, We Will Rebuild, sprang up, with a vow to make a ''better, healthier community.'' Surveying San Francisco after the earthquake and fire of 1906, the magazine Sunset proclaimed that the city would end up ''greater and more beautiful.''
Nearly a century later, Mr. Bush used similar language and imagery. ''The people of this land have come back from fire, flood and storm to build anew, and to build better than what we had before,'' he declared. 
 Yet shadowing Mr. Bush's plans for a new New Orleans is an uncomfortable notion. Hurricane Katrina was a brutal natural disaster, but it also touched off a manmade one. The chaos and mismanagement, the violence and the racial tensions broadcast to the world recalled not earlier natural disasters, but something else: the strife in Los Angeles after the Rodney King verdict in 1992; the race riots in Detroit and Newark in 1967, from which neither city fully recovered.
 In his speech from the French Quarter, Mr. Bush promised ''one of the largest reconstruction efforts the world has ever seen,'' and the federal government will undoubtedly inject tens of billions of dollars into New Orleans.
 But whatever the financial and engineering challenges in reviving New Orleans, the harder truth is that cities often have difficulty bouncing back from manmade misfortune that throws into doubt their potential as safe places to live and work and invest, urban affairs experts say.
 Even before Katrina, New Orleans was sliding in prosperity and in population, with high rates of crime and poverty. The question now is whether the jarring aftermath of the storm has fatally wounded New Orleans's reputation in the eyes of the public -- residents and business owners who left and those who might consider moving to New Orleans in the coming years.
 Hurricane Andrew was nearly as devastating to areas of South Florida, and people also fled, some permanently. But many returned, and while some areas were economically scarred for years, they are now booming. The '92 hurricane did not stir the kind of social strife that tends to make cities seem unwelcoming, perhaps because the underlying fabric of those communities was not frayed in the first place.
 On the other hand, the lesson of Detroit and Newark is that these events can push teetering cities over the edge. Like New Orleans, they were struggling with a wilting industrial base and the flight of the white middle class. The riots hastened those trends, in part because there was a loss of faith that the cities were governable.
 The resurrection of New Orleans, in other words, may hinge on whether the storm is remembered more for the collapse of the levees, which can be repaired and bolstered, or the collapse of civil order, whose taint is much harder to wipe away.
 ''New Orleans has to rebuild not just its buildings and its political culture, but its image,'' said Joel Kotkin, author of ''The City: A Global History.''
 ''People want to know whether a place is a credible first-world city,'' Mr. Kotkin said. ''What they found in New Orleans was that underneath the gloss and facade of a first-world tourist attraction was a third-world reality. It will take a lot of work to erase that view.''
 Max A. Herman, an assistant professor at Rutgers University in Newark who studies urban unrest in the 20th century, said he had been struck by the similarity between the media images after Katrina and those during the violence in Detroit and Newark. The 1967 riots flared after accusations of police brutality in each city.
 He cautioned that the situations were dissimilar in many respects, saying that the looting in New Orleans seemed to have been relatively insignificant and received more attention than it deserved. He suggested that there was more sympathy nationally for New Orleans and support for its recovery than was the case with Detroit and Newark in the late 1960's. Back then, black residents were often viewed, unfairly or not, as having brought the disaster upon themselves by attacking the police and burning buildings.
 But Mr. Herman pointed out that while big employers will probably return to New Orleans, lured by vast sums in federal aid, the small businesses that are the backbone of neighborhoods may be more hesitant. 
 ''It's about not trusting the local government anymore to protect their interests,'' Mr. Herman said. ''That really came up in Newark and Detroit as well. There is really going to be frustration and disappointment among those small-business owners in New Orleans, who are going to say, 'Why wasn't more done to protect us?' And without them, you really can't have a community.''
 Still, is this too pessimistic? Before Katrina, people in New Orleans tended to be more rooted to the city than the populations of many other major cities. That may indicate their loyalty to New Orleans, and their willingness to return and make it thrive.
 In fact, a Gallup poll of urban attitudes across the nation conducted over the summer found that 53 percent of New Orleans residents were extremely satisfied with their personal lives in the city, the highest percentage for any of the 22 cities in the poll, according to Richard Florida, a professor of public policy at George Mason University, who worked on the poll.
 ''From the images that we saw on TV and from what the experts have been saying, one might think that New Orleans people hated their city, that they thought that it was a dump, that they were horribly dissatisfied,'' Mr. Florida said. 
 ''New Orleans has this incredible potential that the pundits are missing, in that the regular people of New Orleans love their city and get a life satisfaction out of it more than people in Denver or New York or Boston,'' he said.
 One challenge, then, would seem to be to harness this affection to energize and guide the recovery. But residents have been flung across the region. Who knows how many will return, and when. It will not be clear for months how embittered they have become from the evacuation and relief effort.
 It is widely held that for urban redevelopment to succeed, people must be actively involved at the neighborhood level. Can they trust in a reconstruction campaign mounted by the same officials who were supposed to have helped them in the days before and after Katrina? After all, New Orleans has a history of political corruption, so the people may already have had a jaded view of officialdom before the storm.
 The president, of course, journeyed to New Orleans on Thursday to make it clear that government would not let the city down. His speech harked back to the clarion calls made after other natural disasters -- from the flood that decimated Galveston, Tex., in 1900 to the one that hit Grand Forks, N.D., in 1997 -- but at one point, its tone changed.
 The poverty exposed by Katrina, Mr. Bush said, ''has roots in a history of racial discrimination, which cut off generations from the opportunity of America; we have a duty to confront this poverty with bold action.''
 Whether intentionally or not, Mr. Bush was echoing a declaration made almost 40 years ago.
 ''It is time to adopt strategies for action that will produce quick and visible progress,'' it went.
 Those words come from the report of the Kerner Commission, which investigated the riots in the 1960's that roiled Detroit, Newark and much of urban America.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Plan Takes Shape -- John Wade watched from his French Quarter home, his television powered by a generator, as President Bush spoke about a future for his city. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)(pg. 1)
Cities Undone -- A hurricane devastated Galveston, Tex., above, in 1900
civil unrest shook Newark, left, and Detroit, below, in 1967. Newark and Detroit never quite recovered. Now it is New Orleans's turn. (Photos by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Sisters of Charity of the Incarnate Word, via Associated Press)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RIOTS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); CRIME RATES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



429 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2138 words

HEADLINE: Codey Leaving A Mixed Bag As His Legacy

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: WEST ORANGE 

 BODY:
SO Richard J. Codey gets a phone call one recent evening. 
 It's Senator Jon S. Corzine, the Democratic candidate for governor, looking for some political advice from his more experienced colleague about an intraparty fight he had gotten involved in over a state Senate seat in Bergen County.
''He said, 'What do you think?''' Mr. Codey recalled, smirking faintly at the memory. ''I said, 'Jon, that's your business. I can assure you that I'm not getting involved.''' 
 With fewer than four months left in his term as acting governor, Mr. Codey finally seems comfortable enough to revel in some of the benefits of being a lame duck before returning full time to the job he never had to give up, that of Senate president. 
 His story about Mr. Corzine was in part intended to illustrate that he can now pick his battles, accomplishing what he can during his remaining time as the state's chief executive while leaving some of the more contentious tasks to whoever replaces him in January.
 Indeed, after Gov. James E. McGreevey resigned in disgrace in August 2004 and lingered in office for about three more months, Mr. Codey stepped in to provide a steadying influence in Trenton. But when he steps down in January, he will be leaving behind many of the nagging problems that existed when he came in: long-term budget imbalances, a perilously bloated pension system, a near-empty Transportation Trust Fund, oppressively high property tax rates and despite his best efforts, uncertainty over the future of the Meadowlands sports complex. 
 ''Codey's personality and demeanor ended up being a perfect match for what the state needed in an acting governor,'' said David Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University, ''which was someone who give the impression that he was capable of governance. That's no small thing, and people appreciate it. But having said that, it may be a bit sobering to New Jerseyans that we will face enormous problems next year.'' 
 For his part, Mr. Codey seems mostly satisfied with what he will have accomplished in his 14 months in office.
 ''In many ways I'll miss it, because the thing about being governor is whatever the issue of the day is you can have a direct impact,'' he said during a wide-ranging interview last week in his district office here. ''But as for the headaches that come with being governor -- the problems -- if something happens after that, hey that's Corzine's problem, not mine.'' That does not mean he is entirely happy to be handing over the reins, whether it is to Mr. Corzine or to the Republican gubernatorial candidate, Doug Forrester. There are numerous indications that Mr. Codey, who identifies himself when making telephone calls as ''the Gov,'' is not quite ready to stop performing on a statewide stage.
 There are small indications, like the prototypes for an order of thousands of bobble-head dolls scattered around his office preserving in plastic for all eternity a grinning, red-haired governor. 
 And there are bigger clues, like the fact that Mr. Codey remains resentful of the way he was muscled out of contention for a full term as governor by Mr. Corzine and his allies. Mr. Codey also caused a stir recently by briefly toying with the idea of jumping into a contest for Mr. Corzine's Senate seat, which Mr. Corzine will have to vacate if elected governor.
 ''The only thing I can say,'' Mr. Codey finally said, ''is that I wish I had a few more months.''
 Whatever concerns he may have about unfinished business, however, Mr. Codey is already being credited by colleagues and voters alike on one important score.
 ''I think that, first and foremost, Governor Codey's legacy will be that he restored the integrity of the high office he holds,'' said Senate Minority Leader Leonard Lance, a Republican and a friend who held the Bible for Mr. Codey as he took the oath of office.
 Polls certainly seem to indicate that Mr. Codey has exceeded expectations in that regard. A recent Star-Ledger/Eagleton survey showed Mr. Codey, a caretaker governor and non-candidate, beating Mr. Forrester in a hypothetical race by the same margin as the hard-campaigning, free-spending Mr. Corzine. 
 ''It's flattering,'' said the usually blunt Mr. Codey, clearly trying to restrain himself about the political implications of things that might have been.
 Of course, those numbers are only a snapshot.

No Miracles, but Steady Progress
 When he came into office last November, the state faced an economic crisis brought on by years of ruinous borrowing, putting in jeopardy such basic obligations as pensions for state employees and money to keep public trains and buses running, and resulting in property tax rates that had ballooned to become the highest in the nation, with no relief in sight.
 Mr. Codey, who had warned when he assumed office that he was ''not some great reformer,'' had no miracles up his sleeve. 
 Instead, the veteran legislator -- a product of the Essex County Democratic organization -- had to settle, in many cases, for incremental progress. 
 In an effort to close the budget gap, he frankly declared in his State of the State address that he would be canceling property tax rebate checks for more than a million homeowners, only to compromise at budget time with Assembly Democrats by maintaining them, but at reduced rates.
 He appointed an inspector general to investigate governmental waste and fraud, but did not go as far as creating an independently elected attorney general, as some advocates of reform have proposed.
 He signed into law a measure -- first proposed by Mr. McGreevey in an 11th-hour pang of conscience -- to ban political contributions from state contractors, a practice known as ''pay to play,'' but did not address the still-unregulated ability of county bosses to move campaign funds around the state, a practice known to insiders as wheeling.

Limited Boat Rocking
 Part of the reason for his limited accomplishment in these areas, many veterans of state government say, is that Mr. Codey was always a temporary governor and, once he withdrew from the governor's race, a lame duck.
 ''He would have been in a position to do a better job if he had been a candidate for governor,'' said one lobbyist and public affairs consultant, Alan Marcus. ''Instead, he acted in many ways like a Senate president instead of a governor and didn't rock the boat. What changes were brought about in terms of the pension system? What changes were brought about in terms of the number of political hacks on the state payroll? Is the transportation trust fund in place? I just don't think Codey was in a position as acting governor to do those things.''
 Similarly, Mr. Lance said that he was ''disappointed'' at Mr. Codey's performance in some of those major areas -- particularly on pay-to-play reform and on the budget, which prompted the Republican leader to file suit against the Codey administration this summer for relying on borrowed money -- and that his status as an acting governor was not by itself an excuse for lack of accomplishment. 
 ''The acting governor has all of the powers of an elected governor,'' Mr. Lance noted. Still, Mr. Lance said, ''He only will have had one year and arguably after a great trauma, restoring integrity goes well beyond appearance to fundamental substance.''
 Likewise, Mr. Marcus said that the most important aspect of Mr. Codey's legacy will be that he brought back ''grace and public confidence'' to the office.
 Mr. Codey himself was notably reflective on the topic of his inability to institute more reforms over the past year. 
 ''Looking back, I don't know if I could have done, maybe scrapped state government as we knew it, or tried to reinvent it,'' he said. ''You know, maybe another governor can. But that would not be easy because you're dealing with entrenched institutions that have their own constituencies.''
 As Mr. Rebovich said, ''His substantive accomplishments may not be enormous, when you think about what he inherited, he gets a fair amount of credit personally.''
 So as the end of his unexpected turn in the governor's office approaches, the question for Mr. Codey is what to do with his newfound political capital.
 For one thing, he said, he intends to get more actively involved in the governor's race. Mr. Codey explained that although he talks to Mr. Corzine ''about once a week,'' tensions between the erstwhile rivals kept his role to a minimum until now. 
 ''I think things just took their course, and the tension that was there when I was deciding whether or not to run and obviously run against him has dissipated,'' Mr. Codey said.
 After his most recent conversation with the senator, Mr. Codey said, he expects things do get much busier. ''I say, 'Jon, all the local candidates ask me to come and campaign for them,''' he explained. 

Eager to Campaign
 He said that Mr. Corzine responded by saying that he wanted to start scheduling more events with Mr. Codey immediately.
 But if that settles Mr. Codey's short-term political agenda, there remains the question of how he plans to govern for the next four months. Mr. Codey said that he wants to solidify some of his legislative goals, like improving the state's mental health care system, providing additional millions of dollars to state parks and founding a ''steroids task force'' to look into the abuse of performance-enhancing drugs among student athletes.
 He also claimed credit for changing, if not eradicating, tolerance in the state for corruption among public officials. ''I think if you're a politician in New Jersey, you've got to be a moron'' to try something illegal, he said.
 Mr. Codey also hinted that he has several other ambitious initiatives in mind before he leaves, although he said it was premature to talk about them. ''We're going to have a few surprises for you,'' he said. 
 For instance, as recently as Wednesday his office announced a proposal to adopt California's stricter emissions standards for vehicles sold in New Jersey by 2009.
 Whether he can achieve anything substantive is another matter. As it is, even some of Mr. Codey's relatively modest initiatives now look uncertain. 
 His efforts to reach an agreement with the Giants for a new football stadium in the Meadowlands is looking increasingly tentative, with the team balking at the state's demands to share the facility with a huge shopping and entertainment complex.
 Mr. Codey suggested that some of the state's most serious problems are too politically perilous for anyone to address at the moment. 
 On the idea of replenishing the Transportation Trust Fund through a gas tax, for instance, Mr. Codey said: ''How do you do it when that's the No.1 complaint of the people in New Jersey today and in our country? With the high price of gasoline, sometimes I don't fill my car anymore, because you know I'm on a fixed income. I'm giving them $20 instead of the $45 I need. I mean, it's tough.''
 Mr. Codey suggested some of the state's other challenges may be insurmountable for the foreseeable future. 
 ''State government is so vast,'' he said. ''It takes myriads to change the way we run it, if in fact it's changed at all. And I would probably say the odds are against big change, no question about it.''
 For now, it is unclear what role Mr. Codey envisions for himself. There has been much speculation about what he might do next -- including talk of some appointment by Mr. Corzine, if he is elected governor, to head one of the state's powerful authorities -- but the governor said he has yet to decide.
 ''You know, I always say in politics you never should plan to take a particular position in a particular year, because it may not be the right time,'' he said. ''I don't know if in fact I want to run for another job, and if I do what would be the right one at the right time, so I just take one day at a time and try to be the best state senator I can possibly be and I want to help the new governor.''
 Mr. Codey did say that he was sure of one thing, at least, which was that he was no longer interested in Mr. Corzine's Senate seat because the demands of bouncing between New Jersey and Washington ''is not conducive to good family living.''
 And if it came down to it, he said, he would have absolutely no problem going from being governor of a large state back to Senate president and legislator from West Orange. ''When people ask, 'How could you be Senate president after you've been governor?' That's for people with a big ego, and I don't think I have one.'''
 ''There's no regrets, none at all,'' said the governor, repeating what has become a familiar refrain. ''You know, when I started in politics, I never thought I'd have the opportunity to be governor for 14 months. For the most part its been rewarding. At times its not easy. But I don't regret my decision at all.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard J. Codey has fewer than four months left in his term as acting governor. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Richard J. Codey said he would have no problem going back to being Senate president and a legislator from West Orange. (Photo by Frank Franklin II/Associated Press)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (64%); SPORTS (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); PROPERTY TAX (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (50%) Politics and Government

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) Richard J (Gov) Codey; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



430 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 80

LENGTH: 9018 words

HEADLINE: The Statesman 

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub, a contributing writer for the magazine, is at work on a book about the United Nations.

 BODY:
At 1:45 in the morning one day this past July, Bono, the lead singer for U2 and the world's foremost agitator for aid to Africa, was in a van heading back to his hotel in Edinburgh from Murrayfield Stadium; he had just performed in, and expounded at, a concert designed to coincide with the beginning of the summit meeting of the major industrialized nations, held nearby at the Gleneagles resort. Despite the hour, practically everybody in the van was on a cellphone. The bodyguard in the front seat was calling the hotel to see if a huge crowd would still be camped outside hoping to catch a glimpse of their world-straddling hero. (Roger that.) Lucy Matthew, the head of the London office of DATA, Bono's policy and advocacy body -- the acronym stands for Debt AIDS Trade Africa -- was whispering to some contact in the States. And Bono, who had been conferring 12 hours earlier at Gleneagles with President George Bush, Prime Minister Tony Blair and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, was sharing an anxiety attack with a friend. The leaders of the G-8, as the group is known, were going to offer far less in aid and trade to developing nations in Africa than the activists had led their followers to expect. Thousands of bright-eyed young recruits to the cause were going to go home in disgust. 
 'And I did get them to laugh. Then I tried to inspire them.'; Bono was able to dislodge conservatives from their isolationist or free-market reflexes by reaching them as Christians. Conservative Christians are now a key constituency in Africa debates; Bono helped them across the ideological divide.; The Bush administration remains distant from the rough international consensus on development issues. 'There could be a few black eyes for us...and criticism of working too close with these characters,' Bono said. 'But I'm sure it was the right thing to do.'
Bono, normally the most courteous of men, shouted an obscenity in Matthew's general direction, though the intended target was himself, or perhaps fate. ''What's the point of coming back to talk to Chirac?'' he said. ''It's going to be too late then.'' The French president had reached Gleneagles late, and was probably sullen given that Paris had just lost out to London in its bid for the 2012 Olympics. (This was several hours before the terrorist bombings in London.) Bono was leaving later that day for a concert in Berlin and so would be unable to see Chirac until the day after. The thought was making him desperate: ''Lucy, is it too late to call somebody with Chirac?'' Matthew gently pointed out that it was, after all, the middle of the night for most people. Bono digested this unwelcome news and then said, ''Look, let's call them tomorrow morning and say I'd be happy to meet with him any time he wants. I'll bring him breakfast.. . .I guess I won't bring him an English breakfast.'' (Chirac had notoriously declared English food the worst cuisine in Europe, save Finnish.)
 Bono did not, in fact, talk to the French president until the third and final day of the conference. But by then his despair had lifted. The summit meeting's final communique offered significant pledges on aid and debt relief for Africa, as well as new proposals on education and malaria eradication. Bono's own embrace of the package was treated with a solemnity worthy of a Security Council resolution. When I saw him the day after the summit ended, over tea in the courtyard of the Hotel Plaza Athenee in Paris, he said, ''I feel like I've got a right to punch the air.''
 And so he did. Bono had moved the debate on Africa, as five years ago he moved the debate on debt cancellation. This past week he was trying to move the debate set to take place at the big United Nations summit meeting, which he says he hopes will consolidate the gains made at Gleneagles, or at least not erode them. He's a strange sort of entity, this euphoric rock star with the chin stubble and the tinted glasses -- a new and heretofore undescribed planet in an emerging galaxy filled with transnational, multinational and subnational bodies. He's a kind of one-man state who fills his treasury with the global currency of fame. He is also, of course, an emanation of the celebrity culture. But it is Bono's willingness to invest his fame, and to do so with a steady sense of purpose and a tolerance for detail, that has made him the most politically effective figure in the recent history of popular culture.
 I first met Bono last January at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, a gathering that answers almost perfectly to the conspiracy-theory view of global domination by a corporate-political-cultural elite. A core function of Davos is to mix different kinds of authority, which makes it the site par excellence of the Celebrity Prince and the one-man state. Bill Gates was there, as was George Soros -- figures whose global currency, of course, is currency, and who deploy their philanthropy strategically, just as states deploy their aid budgets. Angelina Jolie, roving ambassador for the United Nation's refugee agency, showed up, too. Bill Clinton came, as did Jeffrey Sachs, the Columbia professor and unofficial economist to the third world. And a giddy nimbus of wannabes surrounded these regal figures and basked in their company.
 When I went to meet Bono at the bar of his hotel, I saw Richard Gere seated at a table with a gorgeous woman in a little fur jacket and a leather cap. Bono, on the other hand, had removed himself to a quiet back room, where he was keeping company with a plump, middle-aged white guy in a suit and tie. (Bono was wearing a T-shirt and a fuzzy sweater whose sleeve needed mending.) This was Randall Tobias, head of the Bush administration's AIDS program. The administration had just announced that the program was providing antiretroviral drugs to 155,000 Africans with AIDS. Another kind of activist might have said, ''That leaves 25 million more to go.'' But not Bono: he looked his cornfed interlocutor in the eye and said, ''You should know what an incredible difference your work is going to make in their lives.'' Tobias looked embarrassed. Bono said various wonderful things about President Bush. Tobias beamed.
 The glamour event of the following day, indeed of the whole forum, was a symposium on efforts to end poverty in Africa. The guests were Tony Blair and Bill Clinton, Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria and Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, Bill Gates and Bono. The heads of state, leading off, candidly acknowledged the obstacles to development -- violent conflict, poor governance, corruption, lack of political will in the donor states and so on. It was all terribly somber and Davos. Then Bono was asked what he would like to see changed. ''The tone of the debate,'' he shot back. The Celebrity Prince was wearing a black T-shirt under a black leather jacket, and he appeared to have shaved the stubble off his jutting, bellicose jaw. ''Here we are,'' he went on, ''reasonable men talking about a reasonable situation. I walk down the street and people say: 'I love what you're doing. Love your cause, Bon.' And I don't think 6,000 Africans a day dying from AIDS is a cause; it's an emergency. And 3,000 children dying every day of malaria isn't a cause; it's an emergency.''
 The crowd of C.F.O.'s and executive directors, silent until then, burst into applause. Bono had put music to the words; that's one of the things the rock-star activist can do. Moments later, an inspired Bill Clinton, throwing reason to the winds, cried: ''The whole corruption and incompetence issue is bogus! And whoever raises it should be thrown in the closet.'' (Clinton later calmed down and said he meant that the corruption and incompetence of many African governments should not be used as a pretext to withhold aid.)
 Bono gave Davos its music; but he also operated in prose. His chief goal was to win commitments, or the possibility of commitments, to be redeemed six months later at Gleneagles. A major item on the agenda for Gleneagles would be canceling $40 billion of debt that the poorest countries owe to the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and other multilateral institutions; and in Davos, Bono met with John Taylor, an under secretary of the treasury, to try to move the Bush administration's position on the issue. He huddled with Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the Exchequer and heir apparent to the British prime ministership, to strategize on financial mechanisms to ''front load'' the increased aid that donor states had promised. When Chancellor Schroder arrived to deliver a speech on aid to Africa as well as on the German economy, he met beforehand with Bill Gates and afterward with Bono.
 As soon as the Schroder meeting ended, I was summoned to the war room in which Bono and his troops were camped. ''Schroder just agreed to .7 by 2015,'' Bono cried. ''It's fantastic!'' In 2002, the industrialized states pledged to increase foreign-aid spending to 0.7 percent of G.N.P. by 2015, but the German economy was tanking, and Schroder, who faced a political challenge from the right, had been loath to lay out a timetable for increased spending. Now, to Bono, he had done just that. Of course, a skeptic might have noted that since Schroder was unlikely to be in power in 2006, much less 2015, this was not a pledge he would have to honor, but Bono is not a skeptic.
 One night I went out to dinner with Bono and the gang. Richard Curtis, the British screenwriter responsible for ''Four Weddings and a Funeral'' and ''Love Actually'' and a prominent activist on poverty issues as well, told Bono that he and Bob Geldof had been talking about arranging simultaneous mega-concerts in major world cities for July 2, to focus attention on the Gleneagles summit -- the germ of what would become Live 8. Bono, who was carving up a large steak, got more and more excited. Those eight leaders, he suggested, should think that the whole world will be watching. It wouldn't be, of course; but it should feel that way. ''I'm a salesmen,'' he told Curtis. ''And I know I can sell this to NBC or CBS.'' Meanwhile, Jeffrey Sachs was crouched over in the corner, trying to make himself heard on his BlackBerry. Jamie Drummond, the head of DATA's Washington office, was running down a list of stars -- George Clooney, Cameron Diaz, Brad Pitt, Mos Def -- who had agreed to appear in a commercial for the One Campaign, a confederation of major development organizations that was assembling an army of activists to fight for increased aid.
 Bono had started with a glass of white wine, but when I said I was drinking red, he switched over and ordered a bottle of Brunello di Montalcino. U2's manager, Paul McGuinness, is a wine nut, and Bono caught the bug from him. Bono has unabashedly bourgeois tastes, and he spends his money on the kinds of things most of us would spend our money on if we had as much as he does -- a family-size Maserati, a house on the Riviera, a charming hotel in Dublin, great food and wine. I was raving about the Brunello, which was many stations above the norm for me. Bono was less impressed, but he didn't want to dampen my enthusiasm. ''It is,'' he said, after some consideration, ''a not immodestly great wine.'' This dash of wine snobbery, which would have been insufferable from a London banker, became somehow endearing when delivered from behind pink sunglasses in an Irish publican brogue. 
 When he is not lobbying heads of state on multilateral debt relief, Bono, who is now 45, still earns his keep as one of the most famous rock stars in the world. And in order to understand how he has come by his Celebrity Prince status, it's helpful to attend a U2 concert. In May, a few months after Davos, I saw the band perform in Madison Square Garden. First, the entire arena went dark, and then, in a cone of white light through which innumerable bits of confetti fluttered and danced, Bono materialized, twirling slowly, ecstatically, his arms raised to the light as if asking to be drawn up to the heavens. It was a gesture with intimations of the messianic. And yet what you felt, throughout the evening, as Bono pranced and hopped along the catwalk that extended out into the crowd in the pit, inviting girls up to dance with him, was that he was beckoning his fans to join him in the ecstatic place where the music came from. Even his political appeals, which he generally kept in check, felt like an invitation to the transcendent. Invoking the spirit of American courage and enterprise that once put a man on the moon, he called on President Bush to increase aid to Africa and thus ''put mankind back on earth'' (whatever that meant).
 Bono may be a one-man state, but he is not a one-man band. U2 is a rock phenomenon because the Edge, the lead guitarist, the drummer, Larry Mullen Jr., and Adam Clayton, who plays bass guitar, are very talented musicians who share Bono's gift for conjuring a sense of rapture. But the voice of U2 is Bono's voice, which seems to rise up out of a great pool of naked yearning. It takes the form sometimes of an arena-enveloping shout, sometimes of a keening wail and sometimes of a piercing falsetto. The voice, like the stage presence, is easy to spoof, for as a performer, Bono generally does without the irony that he deploys as a bantering citizen. The ironist will not, however, touch a stadium full of hearts, as Bono does. 
 Bono, who was born Paul Hewson, had more than enough unhappiness and loss growing up to give a sharp edge to that wail, but not too much to kill his sense of delight. He was reared by a Catholic father and a Protestant mother in Dublin's ragged middle class, a smart boy who was playing in international chess tournaments at 12. But when Bono was 14, his beloved mother suddenly died, leaving him with an older brother and a father who, he has said, ''would always pour salt -- and vinegar -- onto the wound.'' He was a very angry teenager, but at 16, he and some of his angry, barely middle-class school chums began noodling around on instruments. By the following year, 1977, they were performing in local clubs. They weren't very good, but even then there was something fiercely affirmative in their music. At a time when many performers looked as if they'd just emerged from electroshock therapy and were wont to incite a crowd by pelting it with offal, U2 had a bond, a benevolent relationship, with the audience. ''We were never adversarial,'' Adam Clayton says. ''We were much more Irish.'' 
 The band has been together ever since. Even Paul McGuinness, their manager, has been with them from the beginning. This is not only rare in the rock business; it is just about unheard-of. U2 is also one of the very few bands in which all revenue is shared equally; Bono and the Edge could have claimed the songwriting revenue but didn't. Nor do any of them appear to have succumbed to drugs, alcohol or raging ego. Religion played an important role in the band members' lives, if not always in their music; indeed, the band's survival was threatened only when, early on, Bono, the Edge and Larry Mullen Jr. thought of leaving to join a Christian fellowship. Bono remains religious, and not in the cosmic, New Age sense you expect from rock stars. He describes himself as a ''meandering Christian,'' and his four children attend the Church of Ireland, which is Episcopalian (and thus splits the difference between his mother and father).
 Unlike his dyspeptic fellow activist Sir Bob Geldof, Bono is a hugger, a giver and seeker of affection. Geldof himself has compared the two by saying: ''He is in love with the world . . . he wants to give it a cuddle. I want to punch its lights out'' -- as if Bono were an Irish John Denver. Bono understandably hates this crack, but in fact he doesn't want to punch the lights out of life. He's an extremely courteous, minutely attentive person who signs every object thrust at him by delirious fans and never forgets to thank everyone for everything. Though he has, over the years, written a great many aching ballads about women with ''Spanish eyes'' and so forth, he has stayed married to his first wife, Ali, whom he met at age 12 and started dating at 16.
 From the outset, the members of U2 have been committed to rescuing the planet from various evils. Back in the 1980's, when the band was building its reputation, every tour seemed to come with its own moral sponsor -- Amnesty International, Nelson Mandela, Greenpeace. Bono has since come to think of this as the era of Rock Against Bad Things. Should he ever want to mortify himself utterly, Bono need only cue up the incantation at the end of his 1987 song ''Silver and Gold'': ''This is a song about a man . . .who's sick of looking down the barrel of white South Africa. A man who has lost faith in the peacekeepers of the West while they argue.. . .Am I buggin' ya? I don't mean to bug ya.'' But Bono has the saving grace of self-awareness; he keeps close track of his own absurdities. Like any pop star, he sorted through various personae over the years -- brother of the oppressed, Christian visionary, ironic trickster, devoted husband and father -- and ultimately arrived at the soulful, watchful, perpetually unsatisfied grown-up that he is. And at that point he was ready to take up issues that other rock stars were unlikely to bother with, since they couldn't be reduced to a songwriter's hook. 
 In 1997, Bono was approached by Jamie Drummond, then working with a church-sponsored campaign to cancel the debts that the most impoverished nations owed to the industrialized nations. (This was ''bilateral debt,'' owed by one state to another, as opposed to the ''multilateral debt'' debated at Gleneagles.) Many countries, especially in Africa, were so crushed by foreign debt, often run up by long-gone tyrants with the happy connivance of Western banks, that scarcely anything was left over for schools, health care and the like. The movement made real headway in England, but was virtually unknown in the U.S. U2 played in the Live Aid concert to raise money for Ethiopia back in 1985. So did everyone else, of course. But Bono actually wanted to understand the problem he was sloganeering about, so the following year he and Ali spent several months living and working in a refugee camp in Ethiopia. He was ripe for a deeper involvement. 
 Bono agreed to spearhead the American debt-relief effort and began by educating himself on the subject. As a superstar, Bono had the advantage of being able to conduct his education at a very high level. Bobby Shriver, a record producer and member of the Kennedy clan, set up meetings for him with James Wolfensohn, who was the head of the World Bank, and with Paul Volcker, David Rockefeller and other colossi of the financial establishment. Bono traveled to Cambridge, Mass., to meet with Jeffrey Sachs, then at Harvard. But he also asked Sachs to find him an academic who opposed debt cancellation, a very peculiar request for a graduate of the school of Rock Agitprop. ''I'm always attentive to the bearers of bad news,'' Bono told me, ''because they're a little more reliable.'' They also, of course, sharpen your debating skills.
 By the summer of 1999, Bono was ready to take on Washington. The Clinton administration was already committed to canceling two-thirds or so of the $6 billion that the poorest African countries owed the United States, but Bono wanted 100 percent cancellation -- not only because he thought it was right, but also because you can't sing about two-thirds of something. ''It has to feel like history,'' he says. ''Incrementalism leaves the audience in a snooze.'' Shriver arranged for Bono to meet with Gene Sperling, President Clinton's chief economic adviser, and with Sheryl Sandberg, chief of staff to Lawrence Summers, who had just been named secretary of the treasury. Summers himself was not about to waste precious time meeting with a rock star. He did agree, however, to ''drop by'' while Bono spoke to Sperling. Bono laid out his argument. ''He was deeply versed in the substance,'' Sandberg recalls. ''He understood capital markets, debt instruments, who the decision makers were.'' 
 Summers tried to give Bono the polite brushoff. ''These are complicated issues,'' Summers told him. ''I'll have to take it up with the G-7 finance ministers.'' And now this earnest, impassioned rock star with the accent of a racetrack tout issued a call to destiny. ''You know what,'' he told Summers, ''I've been all over the world, and I've talked to all the major players, and everyone said, 'If you get Larry Summers, you can get this done.' '' It was, Sandberg says, ''a really important moment. I think we were all inspired and motivated.''
 It wasn't Bono's belief in the issue that was so effective; it was his belief in others. One Sunday morning that fall, Bono called to ask Sperling if he could come to his office in the West Wing. There he put his hand on top of a giant stack of papers Sperling was working through and said: ''I bet that most of the things in this pile feel more urgent than debt relief. But I want you to think of one thing: Ten years from now, is there anything you'll feel more proud of than getting debt relief for the poorest countries?'' Bono understood something about people like Sperling: that in their heart of hearts, the chastened New Democrats of the Clinton administration yearned for morally resounding acts, but that they needed political cover, and they needed permission -- the feeling that the thing could and must be done. When Bono left, Sperling called a treasury official and said that he wanted to insert something on debt relief into a speech Clinton was about to give at the World Bank. He and Summers got a few minutes in the presidential limo. Clinton instantly agreed to call for 100 percent cancellation of the debts owed to the United States by 33 impoverished countries.
 But it wasn't enough just to pierce the hearts of guilty ex-liberals, for there was still the Republican-controlled Congress to attend to. In late 1999, Bono arranged to meet John Kasich, a wild-man rock-fan conservative from Ohio who was chairman of the House Budget Committee. Kasich might not have been the most obvious candidate for the job; one of his obsessions was getting rid of foreign aid, most of which he considered, he says, ''a joke.'' But Kasich says he was impressed by the force of Bono's argument. The congressman was also a Christian, and Bono spoke of Biblical injunctions to succor the poor and downtrodden. Kasich enlisted. And this became a pattern: Bono was able to dislodge conservatives from their isolationist or free-market reflexes by reaching them as Christians. Conservative Christians in and out of Congress -- mostly out -- are now a key constituency in the debates over aid to Africa; Bono was among the first outsiders to help them across the ideological divide.
 In mid-2000, Bono received an audience with Senator Jesse Helms, viewed by Bono's fellow lefties, including members of the band, as the archfiend himself. Bono quickly realized that his usual spiel about debt service and so on wasn't making a dent. So, he recalls: ''I started talking about Scripture. I talked about AIDS as the leprosy of our age.'' Married women and children were dying of AIDS, he told the senator, and governments burdened by debt couldn't do a thing about it. Helms listened, and his eyes began to well up. Finally the flinty old Southerner rose to his feet, grabbed for his cane and said, ''I want to give you a blessing.'' He embraced the singer, saying, ''I want to do anything I can to help you.'' Kasich, who was watching from a couch, says, ''I thought somebody had spiked my coffee.'' Bono later invited Senator Helms to a U2 concert, and Helms sat through the evening with his hearing aid turned down. Afterward he said to Bono, ''I saw them all standing there with their arms in the air, blowin' like a field of corn.''
 During this period, Bono flew to Washington eight times, meeting not only legislators but also their aides -- even though U2 was then in the last stages of recording a new album. The key holdout in the House was Sonny Callahan, a congressman from Alabama, and Bono and his little band ginned up the clergy members in Callahan's district. Callahan himself later said: ''Priests and pastors sermonizing on debt relief on Sundays, telling their congregations to tell Callahan to take care of this, including my own bishop. Eventually I gave in.'' In late October 2000, Congress appropriated the additional $435 million needed for 100 percent debt relief.
 Why Africa? Why not, say, global warming? Part of the answer is happenstance: Africa is what Bono got swept up into. But Africa, or so Bono feels, needs what only a certain kind of world figure can give -- a call to conscience, an appeal to the imagination, a melody or a lyric you won't forget. The cause of ending extreme poverty in Africa speaks to Bono's prophetic impulse. Rock music, for him, is a form of advocacy, but advocacy is also a form of rock music. His definition of ''sing'' includes speeches and press conferences, and his arenas include Davos and Capitol Hill. Among his best work is the rallying cry. He often says, ''My generation wants to be the generation that ended extreme poverty.'' There's not much evidence that this is so; but Bono has helped make it so, in part by repeating such resonant phrases.
 God knows Africa could use a song or two. The reason that debt relief required such an excruciating effort is that foreign aid has virtually no constituency; a politician is only going to hurt himself by vowing to spend more money helping poor people in Africa. By the time the Bush administration took office, the percentage of G.N.P. devoted to development assistance had been shrinking for more than three decades. And the case for aid had dwindled just as drastically. Countries like Nigeria and Kenya had received tens of billions of dollars over the years with scarcely anything to show for it. Not only conservatives like John Kasich but also Clinton administration ''neoliberals'' argued that aid was powerless, perhaps even harmful, in the face of corruption, civil conflict, weak governance, self-defeating economic policies.
 Whatever its merits, the neoliberal argument began to feel morally unsustainable as much of Africa retrogressed throughout the 90's. Was the West to offer nothing more than pious advice about free markets and small government while whole portions of the globe slid into misery? Did all African countries suffer from bad values, bad governance and bad policies? Liberal economists and activists formulated an alternative argument: a combination of ''natural'' factors -- poor soil, high incidence of infectious disease, lack of access to ports -- along with disadvantageous trade conditions and wrongheaded neoliberal policies had gotten many countries stuck in what Jeffrey Sachs called ''the poverty trap.'' They could not escape, absent outside help. This view, which was widely accepted outside the United States, was given a global endorsement in 2000, when the U.N. adopted the Millennium Development Goals, pledging to radically reduce such problems as extreme poverty, child mortality and infectious disease over the next 15 years. Recipient countries pledged to reduce corruption and improve accountability; donor countries pledged to increase aid, lower trade barriers and grant further debt relief.
 Bono passionately embraced this expansive view of the obligations of the industrialized world, and of the possibilities of Africa. In 2001, he went to Bill Gates and others to finance an organization that would lobby for action on Africa. DATA has offices in London, Los Angeles and Washington, but it was plain from the outset that the real challenge lay in Washington, both because historically the U.S. spent so small a fraction of its budget on aid -- one-tenth of 1 percent of G.N.P. as of 2000 -- and because the incoming Bush administration believed so single-mindedly in free-market solutions to problems of development.
 At the G-8 summit in Genoa in the summer of 2001, Bono managed to wangle a meeting with Condoleezza Rice, who was then the president's national security adviser. Rice is only a few years older than Bono, but her training in classical music and her rather forbidding public persona do not exactly suggest an affinity for rock music or rock musicians. Apparently, this is a misconception. ''I'm a baby boomer,'' Rice pointed out to me when we met in her office in July. ''I love rock music.'' She is, she says, ''a U2 fan.'' And in Bono she discovered a potential partner. The administration, she says, was grappling with ways to ''rebuild a consensus about foreign assistance.'' Rice was surprised to learn that Bono took the hard-headed view that ''there's a responsibility for the recipient'' as well as for the donor. In fact, Bono championed a new paradigm in which aid would be conditioned not only on need but on demonstrated capacity to use that aid effectively -- which was precisely the kind of reform the administration had been thinking of.
 After the meeting with Rice, the policy wonks at what would become DATA (it had not yet been formally organized) produced a proposal for a two-pronged strategy to ''reward success'' in six to nine well-governed countries and to keep others from ''falling back'' through major increases in funding on AIDS, TB and malaria. The proposal might have gone nowhere, but then 9/11 changed all contexts, including the context of development assistance. Aid became a national-security issue (if a rather marginal one), for it was clear that fragile states could not be allowed to become failed states, as Afghanistan had been. And as the administration geared up for war, it needed to prove that its new foreign policy would not be limited to routing terrorists.
 In early 2002, Jamie Drummond recalls, he was ''summoned to Washington and asked not to leave.'' In a series of closed-door meetings, he says, he worked with White House officials on the details of an aid program based on the principles Bono had proposed. (These officials bridle at the suggestion of Bono's authorship: Joshua Bolten, then Bush's deputy chief of staff for policy, will say only that Bono ''was working with the president at a time when he was considering'' such a program.) The administration vowed to put real money behind the Millennium Challenge Account, as the program came to be called. By the third year of operation, it was to be dispensing $5 billion, which all by itself would increase the aid budget by nearly half.
 But the administration wanted something from Bono in return -- his imprimatur. The idea seems laughable on the surface, but the fact is that Bono had enormous credibility in an area where the administration had virtually none; or, as Secretary Rice put it to me, ''It's great to have a person who would not normally be identified with the president's development agenda as a part of it.'' Bono had bargaining power, and he now used it. Jeffrey Sachs had long argued that the AIDS epidemic was wrecking the economy and social order of the most affected states, so that development assistance could not work without a major AIDS campaign. Bono told Rice that he would appear with Bush at an event promoting the president's development-assistance program if Bush would also commit to ''a historic AIDS initiative.'' The day before the planned appearance, in March, Bono learned that the president would not do so. He was now playing for dizzyingly high stakes. Virtually everyone around Bono despised Bush; and now some of his most trusted advisers urged him to deny the administration his precious gift of legitimacy. And Bono, in an uncharacteristic act of confrontation, called Rice and said he was pulling out of the joint appearance.
 Rice was very unhappy. She recalls telling him, ''Bono, this president cares about AIDS, too, and let me tell you that he is going to figure out something dramatic to do about AIDS.'' But, she added, ''You're going to have to trust us.'' Bono accepted her pledge. According to Scott Hatch, a former aide to the Republican House leadership whom Bono hired to help him gain access to conservatives, ''Bono really took it on the chin from the left for dealing with a Republican president.'' But Bono says he felt that the administration deserved praise for the aid package; and he trusted the Bush White House, though his friends thought him ludicrously naive. He says that he has not regretted his trust. ''I have found personally that I have never been overpromised,'' he says. ''In fact, the opposite -- they tell me they won't do something, and finally they do it.''
 As he was being taken to meet Bush, Bono recalls, he told the driver to circle the block a few times while he sat with a Bible in his lap, hunting frantically for a verse about shepherds and the poor. He was getting later and later. Finally he found a passage to his liking, and he went into the Oval Office. There he recited the passage he had chosen from the Gospel of Matthew: ''For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in.. . .'' Bono then presented Bush with an edition of the Psalms for which he had written the foreword. 
 Bono's most celebrated collaboration with the Bush administration was his African caravansary with Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill in May 2002. The two men, so oddly matched, had a striking effect on each other. In the course of the trip, O'Neill, a highly successful corporate leader who preached the gospel of ''value for your money,'' came to conclude that small investments of public money could produce extraordinary value, at least in the exemplary countries on their itinerary -- Uganda, Ghana, South Africa, Ethiopia. He became obsessed with the idea that donors could create a supply of clean drinking water for a entire country for a pittance. But he also tried to impress on Bono the liberating power of the global market. Bono was accustomed to prating about the evils of the I.M.F. and the stinginess of donors; he was taken aback when O'Neill escorted him through factory floors and explained that Africa would benefit more from even a modest expansion of trade than from a radical increase in aid. An account in The Washington Post suggested that a ''momentous. . .alliance between liberals and conservatives to launch a fresh assault on global poverty'' was in the offing.
 O'Neill returned to Washington with the fervor of a convert -- and ran into a brick wall. The trip had provided great publicity for the White House, but nobody wanted to hear about water projects. When O'Neill took advantage of a one-on-one meeting with Bush to propose a $25 million demonstration project to provide clean water to Ghana, the president ''looked blankly at him,'' according to ''The Price of Loyalty,'' an account of O'Neill's time in Washington written by Ron Suskind with O'Neill's extensive cooperation. O'Neill's impolitic enthusiasms and intellectual honesty marked him as a hopeless outsider in the Bush White House; he was fired at the end of 2002. And with him went hopes for a historic conjunction of soft hearts and hard heads.
 The Millennium Challenge Account, announced with such fanfare, now proceeded to sink to the bottom of the administration's priority list. Only in early 2004, two years from the announcement, did the president sign the law creating the body. The first executive director, Paul Applegarth, was a complete unknown who impressed scarcely anyone. Congress appropriated only $1.3 billion for the first year and $1.5 billion for the second. This year President Bush asked for $3 billion rather than the $5 billion he had once promised; and Congress may appropriate little more than half that. Why should legislators do otherwise? Since the corporation has disbursed a grand total of $400,000 to date, there's no evidence that it works.
 Administration officials and legislators give various explanations, none terribly persuasive, for the dilatory pace. Senator Rick Santorum, who has been one of Bono's key conservative allies, says that he has tried to persuade White House officials that the M.C.A. is ''part of our war on terror'' and should be financed accordingly. But when Santorum tries to push the budget director, Joshua Bolten, he says, he hears ''the 'Jerry Maguire' answer: 'Show
 me the money.' '' Bolten is another White House Friend of Bono, and he, too, speaks of aid as ''an integral part of the national-security strategy.'' But when I asked him what happened to the Millennium Challenge Account, he said that it fell between budget cycles.
 The Bush administration, critics say, has fumbled the opportunity to transform the aid debate. In March, Paul O'Neill said that he found it ''unforgivable that we and other mature nations'' have refused to do something as simple as providing clean drinking water. Many of Bono's own allies have lost what little patience they had. Jeffrey Sachs, whose moral sensibilities are comparable to those of U2 circa 1985, calls the operation of the M.C.A. ''a disgrace.'' When I asked Sachs if he thought that Bono should stop cultivating the president and start denouncing him, he said, ''Even aside from him saying it publicly, I'd just like him to say it to himself.''
 I saw Bono soon after my conversation with his mentor and sometime foil. In late May, U2 made a swing through New York for the Madison Square Garden concert. Bono insisted on having lunch at Balthazar, the downtown bistro, where the staff welcomed him as an old friend. He ordered half a dozen oysters, the filet mignon and a half-bottle -- and then, sometime later, another half-bottle -- of a Clos de Vougeot. When my lunch came, he ate the French fries off my plate, Bill Clinton-style. I told him about my talk with Sachs. Bono frowned and said: ''I understand his rage; I share it. What I will not agree with is the belief that we can do this just by the moral force of our argument. We need the right as well as the left. We have achieved an enormous amount this way.'' Bono will not say anything that will drive the administration away, but it is not wholly a matter of tactics; he continues to believe, with what can only be described as a touching faith, that President Bush, while utterly indifferent to the political value of aid, is deeply committed to helping Africa according to his own lights. 
 And the proof, for Bono, is AIDS. Condoleezza Rice had promised him a historic AIDS initiative. Throughout 2002, Bono pressured the administration, lobbying key representatives, White House officials and, above all, leaders in the conservative Christian community. In the first week of December that year, he organized a bus tour through Middle America -- the Heart of America tour -- to demonstrate that ordinary Americans wanted action on AIDS. And the administration made good its pledge: in his 2003 State of the Union address, President Bush proposed a five-year, $15 billion effort to combat AIDS in 15 hard-hit countries, 12 of them in Africa. The President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or Pepfar, has been fully financed every year. And because, unlike the M.C.A., it was built on existing programs, the AIDS initiative began operating on the ground within months -- which is why Bono heaped praise on Randall Tobias at Davos. Bono did not, however, see fit to remonstrate with Tobias over the damage that may have been done by the AIDS program's ideologically inspired guidelines: a requirement that one-third of prevention funds go to programs promoting abstinence and sexual fidelity, stringent restrictions on the use of condoms and even a demand that groups receiving funds must formally oppose prostitution. An editorial in The Economist characterized Pepfar as ''too much morality, too little sense.''
 And the administration has been far less generous with international approaches to AIDS. When, in 2001, Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations announced the establishment of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, President Bush offered only $200 million as the American contribution. Congress has agreed to finance up to one-third of the fund's budget, but in each of the last three years, the administration submitted a lower figure and then Congress raised it. Rick Santorum offers only a middling grade to the administration on AIDS: ''The president put up a very good number for bilateral aid, but didn't put up a good number for multilateral aid.'' Had Congress approved the administration's most recent budget request, Santorum says, thousands of people would have lost their supply of antiretroviral drugs. 
 The leader who deserves the greatest credit for placing Africa at the top of the world's agenda, or at least near it, is Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain. It was Blair, who, at the urging of Bob Geldof, impaneled the Commission for Africa, whose report, released earlier this year, painstakingly laid out the case for an enormous increase in aid to Africa. Blair seems actually to believe what the Bush administration only says, for he uses the same ringing tones to talk about the West's responsibility to Africa that he does to discuss the war on terrorism. But Blair also knows that his crusade enjoys broad political support. And for this he has Bono and Geldof, among others, to thank. Justin Forsyth, Blair's special adviser on development, credits Bono with making Africa an urgent issue in Britain, and with helping Blair ''keep the bar very high'' by insisting on big, breakthrough goals.
 The Gleneagles momentum began building in the spring. In May, European Union development ministers pledged to double global aid from $60 billion to $120 billion by 2010. The following month, Paul Wolfowitz, the hawkish former Pentagon official who had just left the administration to become head of the World Bank, embraced the 0.7 percent target. The Americans and the Brits had worked out their differences on multilateral debt relief. But the Bush administration remained a conspicuous holdout. White House officials were mystified that they hadn't gotten the credit they felt they deserved for reversing decades of indifference to aid, and felt no pressure to do more. 
 When I saw Bono in late May, he was close to despair about Bush's intransigence. The next day he was going to Washington to see Rice, Bolten and the political mastermind Karl Rove. He planned to say, ''I know that important programs are being cut, but this kind of momentum doesn't come along every year.'' He was going to suggest a major initiative on malaria, and another on girls' education.
 Blair and Bono speak regularly, and the week before Gleneagles, Bono hatched a plan to visit 10 Downing Street when the eight ''sherpas,'' who map out the summit for their heads of state, would be meeting there. Lobbying sherpas is simply not done, but Bono dropped in on their meeting as if he just happened to have been in the neighborhood. Once he was in the door, he started talking for all he was worth. ''First I tried to get them to laugh,'' he told me. ''And I did get them to laugh. Then I tried to inspire them. I think I inspired them.'' 
 The Bono operation in Scotland, quartered in a spacious suite in the Balmoral hotel in Edinburgh, was far larger than it had been in Davos. A planning meeting on Day 1 of the summit meeting included all sorts of unfamiliar young men in fashionable glasses, as well as George Clooney. Jamie Drummond was trying to come up with a crisp sound bite on debt relief for Clooney to use on the American morning talk shows. Bob Geldof, his ginger locks tucked under Andy Capp headgear, wandered into the meeting trailed by a TV crew and talking on the cellphone to a senior British treasury official. Geldof held out the phone so everyone could hear, if barely. The official was saying that Chancellor Schroder was balking at an airlines tax to be used to raise money earmarked for aid. Bono said that he was trying to persuade Angela Merkel, Schroder's electoral opponent, to give the chancellor political space by agreeing not to raise the issue -- a stupefying proposition. ''We'll be working on that all day,'' he said blandly. (The idea was eventually dropped.)
 Bono, Geldof and the key aides then choppered over to Gleneagles. Bono spoke with Schroder and Blair about the issues that were still up in the air -- financing mechanisms and trade reform. He met with Bush, who had announced new initiatives on malaria and access to education the week before -- the two issues Bono raised with the White House in late May. It was good, but it was all done in prose. ''They keep saying, 'We're spending this much, and it's this much of a share of world spending,' '' he told me the next morning. ''I want them to say: 'Malaria just can't be allowed. We're going to get rid of malaria.' '' That was how the president talked about terrorism; Bono conceded that if he didn't talk about aid that way, it was probably because he didn't feel that way.
 The Live 8 concerts on July 2 had been crowded, star-studded and distinctly upbeat -- Rock in Favor of Good Things. One last concert was staged on July 6, the first day of the G-8, in the Murrayfield Stadium. It was a fabulously bizarre event. One dressing room had been set aside for George Clooney, Susan Sarandon, Claudia Schiffer and the archbishop of Canterbury (who did not show, alas). The concert lasted five and a half hours, including inspirational addresses by Clooney, Schiffer, Bono and others, and was finally closed down, with magnificent incongruity, by James Brown himself, driving the crowd insane with ''I Got You (I Feel Good).'' At some point during the endless evening,
 I sat down with George Clooney and quite a
 few vodka-and-cranberries. Bono has enlisted some of the biggest names in Hollywood, including Brad Pitt, Cameron Diaz, Justin Timberlake and Clooney. For all his effortless charm, Clooney has serious aspirations, and he spoke of Bono with a respect that bordered on reverence. ''He calls on everyone to be their best,'' Clooney told me. ''If you fall short, you feel embarrassed. That's a unique thing. And we all want to be that person.''
 Clooney had been tasked to buttonhole Paul Wolfowitz and get him to press the administration to finance the World Bank's program to provide free public education. As Clooney and I were talking, the glass door separating our V.I.P. lounge from the roar of the stadium slid open, and who should emerge but the president of the World Bank himself. Wolfowitz, who had rolled up the sleeves of his dress shirt, seemed to be delighted, or at least amused, by this extraterrestrial environment. He and Clooney held a brief palaver and agreed to speak at greater length.
 The next day, Bono flew to Berlin to rejoin the band for a gig at the arena Albert Speer built for the 1936 Olympics. There, standing in front of U2's towering electronic screen, with a vast crowd spread out before him on the playing field, Bono praised Chancellor Schroder's ''leadership'' on debt cancellation and fair trade but added that leadership also required committing an additional $50 billion a year in aid. ''We are watching,'' he shouted. ''We are waiting. If he can deliver this by 4 tomorrow, I believe you should welcome your chancellor back home a hero.'' He implored the crowd to send e-mail and text messages demanding action that very moment.
 Bono flew back to Edinburgh that night in order to be at Gleneagles for the third and final day, when the communique would be issued. He finally met with Chirac and with Kofi Annan. During the afternoon, he started seeing leaks of the communique, which was drawing ever closer to his own agenda, the agenda he had tirelessly, and often fruitlessly, championed since 1999. After worrying for months, and as recently as a day or two before, that the summit would fail, and that he would look like a fool, the relief and the gratification had the force of epiphany. He remembers thinking, Oh, my God, this is really happening -- and in real time. And he had one last coup de theatre in him: he persuaded Blair, against G-8 tradition, to hold a formal signing ceremony so that each head signed a document with his own pen.
 The ''movement'' did not, in general, share Bono's enthusiasm. Activists bitterly complained that the communique included no real progress on trade, no expansion of debt relief to additional countries, no movement by the Bush administration toward 0.7 percent. But when I saw Bono the following day in Paris, he was ebullient. The heads of state had promised that by 2010 they would increase aid to Africa by $25 billion a year, and aid worldwide by $50 billion a year. Schroder hadn't agreed to the airlines tax, but he had promised -- perhaps not the world's most binding promise -- that he would find a way to raise the money. They had extended debt relief to Nigeria, a goal activists had long sought. They had added to President Bush's commitment on malaria, so that the number of victims should be reduced by 85 percent by 2010. They had vowed to ensure that all children had free access to school by 2015. ''I know how big this is,'' Bono said. ''Even Jeff Sachs was emotional about it.''
 The next five years will offer Bono and Geldof and Sachs and Action Against Hunger and all the other activists the laboratory experiment they've been seeking. It's an experiment that needs to be tried, even if it seems likely to disappoint the advocates' hopes. In years past, aid has proved extraordinarily effective on issues like disease eradication (which makes the malaria initiative, for example, so important); the same cannot be said for promoting growth. In a recent article in Foreign Affairs, Nancy Birdsall, head of the generally liberal Center for Global Development, and two co-authors, asked why it was that Vietnam, long isolated from the West, has been growing so much faster than Nicaragua, a major recipient of aid. ''The answers are internal,'' they wrote. ''History and economic and political institutions have trumped other factors in determining economic success.'' The activists and the Bush administration now agree that large-scale aid should be directed not only at highly impoverished but also well-governed countries -- those with strong ''internals.'' But how many such countries are there? Quite a few, argues Sachs, who insists that it is poverty that causes corruption rather than the other way around. This debatable hypothesis will now receive its road test. 
 Bono left Gleneagles to meet the band in Paris. That night, before a sellout crowd of 80,000 in the Stade de France, he read a text, in French -- a language he does not speak -- listing the brave commitments of President Chirac, a figure few in the audience were likely to admire. The next morning, as motorcycle cops were leading Bono's van on a slalom ride through the Paris traffic, he turned to me and said, ''Guess who called this morning to say he had seen the reviews?''
 ''I don't know. Blair?''
 ''No.''
 ''Clinton?''
 ''No. Think what country we're in.''
 ''Chirac?''
 ''Yeah. A lot of his people were at the concert last night. He said that he had heard about what I had said. He wants to work with us very closely.''
 No doubt he meant it. But then along came the grande vacance, and a few days after returning to Paris, Chirac was stricken with a mysterious illness that confined him to the hospital. It appeared that Chirac would not attend the United Nations summit meeting; nor could Chancellor Schroder, who was facing the fight of his political life in an election this weekend. With them went Bono's hopes for immediate progress on an airlines tax, or perhaps on trade. Things went from bad to worse. By the first week in September, Bono's friends in the Bush administration seemed fully prepared, even eager, to scuttle the long and windy statement on development prepared for the summit meeting. The White House prepared an edited draft that proposed to eliminate practically every pledge made by donor countries -- even the very words ''Millennium Development Goals.''
 And then Hurricane Katrina scrambled everything. When Bono called from his house on the Riviera in early September, he said, ''I have to be sensitive about putting my hand in America's pocket at a time like this.'' He would, he said, be keeping a low profile in New York. He was feeling a bit more hopeful about the White House. The administration had climbed down just a bit from its rhetorical high horse, and it appeared that a face-saving compromise might be in the works. Jamie Drummond and his colleagues at DATA had also gotten a few choice bits about AIDS and education inserted into the American draft. But the whole episode was a reminder of how far the Bush administration remains from the rough consensus on development issues that obtains in much of the world. ''I'm really bleak about the next six months,'' Bono said. ''There could be a few black eyes for us and for our work, and criticism of working too close with these characters. But I'm sure it was the right thing to do.''
 It has been a frantic time, this year of Africa. The other members of the band love the cause, but they fret that Bono's hobby is eclipsing his day job. ''The band has survived,'' Adam Clayton told me, ''but there's been a price in terms of relationships.'' Bono has promised to let the world spin on its own axis for a while. But it can't be left alone for long; there's so much proselytizing still to do. Bono's next target is the American people: he expects to have an army of 10 million activists signed up for the One Campaign by 2008. He believes -- he knows -- that the American people would demand action on Africa if only someone would tell them the facts. ''Middle America,'' he said to me one day. ''Don't get me started. I love it.''


Map (Map Painting by Paula Scher/Maya Stendhal Gallery)

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE CELEBRITY PRINCE1. Bono with Kofi Annan, secretary general of the U.N., and Bob Geldof at the G-8 summit in Scotland, 2005. 2. With Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, 2005. 3. With President Bush, 2002. 4. With President Jacques Chirac of France at the G-8 summit. 5. With Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, 2005. 6. With Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, 2005. 7. In an AIDS clinic in Soweto, South Africa, with an H.I.V.-positive child, 2002. 8. With Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany at the World Economic Forum, 2005. (Photographs by: 1. ALISTAIR GRANT/WPA/POOL/REUTERS/CORBIS
2. ANDREAS MEIER/REUTERS/CORBIS
3. KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS/CORBIS
4. PATRICK KOVARIK/AFP/GETTY IMAGES. 5. MOLLY RILEY/REUTERS/CORBIS
6. YVES HERMAN/REUTERS/CORBIS
7. JUDA NGWENYA/REUTERS/CORBIS
8. PASCAL LAUENER/REUTERS/CORBIS.)
The Day Job: Bono and the other members of U2, in Amsterdam, 2005.
 Agit Pop Bono and the faithful, Amsterdam Arena. (Photographs by Dan Winters for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); MUSIC (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (87%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); OLYMPICS (69%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); TERRORISM (66%); BOMBINGS (66%); RELIGION (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (52%) Credit; Foreign Aid; Music; Biographical Information; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (90%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) U2 (Music Group)

PERSON: BONO (94%); JACQUES CHIRAC (75%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (71%); TONY BLAIR (66%); GERHARD SCHRODER (65%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) James Traub; Bono (Singer)

GEOGRAPHIC: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (59%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (70%) AFRICA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); NETHERLANDS (87%); EUROPE (79%); SCOTLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



431 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Money Ball 

BYLINE: By Jeff Z. Klein. 
Jeff Z. Klein is an editor at the Escapes section of The New York Times.

 BODY:
National Pastime
 How Americans Play Baseball
 and the Rest of the World Plays Soccer.
 By Stefan Szymanski 
 and Andrew Zimbalist.
 Illustrated. 263 pp. Brookings Institution Press. $26.95.
WHAT does it say about the United States that after so many years of resistance, it finally seems to have accepted soccer? The game is everywhere, from advertising to Hollywood, most recently in the Elijah Wood vehicle ''Hooligans.'' Americans can practice headers and drool over David Beckham without fear of good-ol'-boy sneers about effete foreigners running around in shorts. Soccer has even received the ultimate American measure of acceptance: association with the military. Defense strategists explicitly identified the Rumsfeldian ideal of a lean, mobile, strike-quickly-anywhere Army as a soccer paradigm in 2003, opposing it to the Powell Doctrine's football paradigm of a huge Army moving with overwhelming force. 
 In ''National Pastime,'' Stefan Szymanski, an economics professor at Imperial College London, and Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College, compare the development of soccer and baseball from their first moments as organized endeavors more than a century ago.
 Despite the occasional confluence between the two games -- for example, the English football league, the model for all soccer leagues around the world, seems to have been based on the National League in American baseball -- they took utterly different paths. Baseball's major leagues are closed monopolies that try to assure the financial success of all their member teams, while soccer leagues everywhere outside the United States feature promotion and relegation. That means a very wealthy team can drop down a level and lose a fortune, while a little town team can rise to the highest level. Moreover, soccer teams were never franchises in the American sense; they were always run as clubs or associations, with members, dues and board elections. For decades in Britain, club chairmen were barred from earning salaries.
 But that has all changed over the last 15 years or so, as Szymanski and Zimbalist point out. Americans have become used to reading about the wealth of soccer clubs, which has come to rival that of baseball franchises. And now that digital television has brought all the world's great soccer leagues into living rooms everywhere, you hear more and more regular Americans in Zinedine Zidane Real Madrid replica shirts discussing what Ronaldo did last night for Brazil.
 And here is where Szymanski and Zimbalist fall short. While their interesting if dry book ably traces the differences between the businesses of baseball and soccer, it assumes the two sports can learn from each other. But they cannot. Baseball is not a global sport. It is more like rugby, cricket or hockey: wildly popular in a few countries, but obscure or unknown in most. Soccer, on the other hand, is the world game, 
 with limitless capacity for growth.
 In the end, ''National Pastime'' marks the moment when Americans, having accepted soccer, seem ready to learn much more about it than this book contains. Franklin Foer's ''How Soccer Explains the World: An Unlikely Theory of Globalization,'' published in 2004, hints at Americans' increased sophistication in such matters. It probably won't be long before Americans discover the decade's worth of smart British books about the culture, political history and sociology of the game, like 
 Simon Kuper's ''Football Against the Enemy,'' Phil Ball's ''Morbo: The Story of Spanish Football,'' Alex Bellos's ''Futebol: The Brazilian Way of Life,'' and David Winner's ''Brilliant Orange: The Neurotic Genius of Dutch Football.''
 But first must come ''National Pastime.'' It's no coincidence that the book is published, however incongruously, by the Brookings Institution Press -- a sure sign that someone important thinks it's high time Americans started taking soccer seriously.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); BASEBALL (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARMIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); LITERATURE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%)

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (73%) Jeff Z Klein; Stefan Szymanski; Andrew Zimbalist

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2005



432 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: Even a Darling of the Newspaper Industry Is Starting to Sweat a Bit

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: HALF MOON BAY, Calif. 

 BODY:
Joseph Kieta can still hardly believe his good fortune.
 He is 33 years old and edits The Merced Sun-Star, a tiny daily in California's fast-growing Central Valley. The McClatchy Company bought the paper a year and a half ago, and overnight, it seems, it sprang to life.
Mr. Kieta added two reporters and two copy editors to his 23-member editorial staff. He expanded local coverage, including adding a page of business news. His editors and reporters took workshops with teams from McClatchy's other California papers. Morale soared, and more people with better credentials started applying for jobs. Earlier this year, the California Newspaper Publishers Association awarded The Sun-Star its prize for ''general excellence'' for papers with circulations between 10,000 and 25,000. 
 ''It's been incredible,'' Mr. Kieta said during McClatchy's recent management retreat here, overlooking the sun-splashed Pacific. ''We got the tools we needed to make the paper better.''
 Chalk up another success for McClatchy, one of the best-kept secrets in the newspaper industry. The chain, with 12 dailies, including The Star Tribune in Minneapolis, The News & Observer in Raleigh, N.C., and The Sacramento Bee, has one of the lowest profiles in the business but one of the strongest track records, both for award-winning journalism and a continuously healthy bottom line. 
 At a time when many newspapers are cutting back and announcing layoffs, McClatchy is building its properties. 
 Through the end of 2004, the chain had 20 consecutive years of growth in circulation and 10 consecutive years in which its stock swelled with the highest growth rate of any newspaper stock, up 380 percent. 
 ''We've out-performed the industry on revenue, circulation, not making layoffs and growing our news hole,'' said Gary B. Pruitt, 48, the chairman, president and chief executive of McClatchy. In July, the company, which has a market value of $3.1 billion, posted record second-quarter earnings of $44.2 million.
 Still, the trends for newspapers show that readership is dropping, advertising revenues lagging and competition from the Internet intensifying -- and even McClatchy sees clouds on the horizon.
 ''We're not wringing our hands,'' Mr. Pruitt said. ''But people are disappointed because they expected revenues to be stronger than they are, and that disappointment has led to the stock's decline.''
 The company's stock price dropped 21 cents on Friday, to close at $65.28 a share. It is down from its 52-week high of $76.05 in March. In stock growth, the E.W. Scripps Company is now the industry leader.
 And McClatchy's two-decade streak of circulation increases may be broken this year. Through July, circulation for the group was down 0.6 percent daily and 2.2 percent on Sunday. That is small compared to losses at many bigger papers, but a slip nonetheless.
 McClatchy's total advertising revenues grew 2.8 percent in July from a year ago. This is a relatively weak showing for the chain, the result in part of strong growth last year but also because car dealers, retailers and national advertisers -- especially telecommunications, banking and entertainment companies -- have pulled back, said Patrick J. Talamantes, McClatchy's chief financial officer. While McClatchy's ad revenues are in line with the industry average, McClatchy has traditionally led the industry.
 ''They're not immune to the industry environment, which remains exceptionally challenging,'' said Peter Appert, an analyst with Goldman Sachs, which does business with McClatchy.
 But in an interview in his sleek office at corporate headquarters in Sacramento, just off the newsroom of The Bee, Mr. Pruitt vowed that the company would weather the storm intact -- largely by relying on the tried-and-true principles that have prompted analysts over the years to rate McClatchy one of the best-managed companies in the sector. ''We're trying to have a sense of steady, consistent improvement regardless of the economic cycles,'' he said.
 The relatively small McClatchy family seems to like that just fine. Kevin S. McClatchy, one of four fifth-generation McClatchys who sits on the company's 14-member board of directors, said the family had no intention of selling the franchise. It was started in 1857 in Sacramento by James McClatchy, who had fled Ireland during the potato famine.
 ''The family's commitment is as strong as it's ever been,'' said Mr. McClatchy, 42, who is chief executive and managing general partner of the Pittsburgh Pirates.
 Outsiders, too, say McClatchy is on the right track. Donald E. Graham, chief executive and chairman of the board of the Washington Post Company, who was speaking to McClatchy editors and publishers at the retreat here, praised Mr. Pruitt in an interview and added: ''There's no reason for them to do anything other than what they're doing.'' 
 The McClatchy formula for success starts with finding papers in growth markets with no direct daily print competition. The number of households where its dailies are based is projected to grow 10.5 percent from 2003 to 2008, the company says, compared with a national growth of 6.1 percent. 
 Also top among its principles is resisting the urge to bulk up in boom times, so it can avoid cuts and layoffs in lean times. This can be frustrating to editors who want more bodies to cover their growing markets.
 Rick Rodriguez, executive editor of The Sacramento Bee, said the industry guideline of one newsroom employee per thousand circulation had left him scrambling to cover things like the proliferating number of high school sports teams in his area. But on the positive side, he said, he can plan ahead. ''You know what you have to work with, and when employees come here, they know it will be stable,'' he said.
 The chain also holds its ambitions in check. Mr. Pruitt, a First Amendment lawyer, said he wanted each of the papers to be ''the best in the country for its size, or at least our version of the best.'' He said he had no interest in becoming the biggest.
 ''We look at almost everything on the acquisition front and pursue almost nothing,'' he said. ''Only if we're in growth markets can we achieve the quality we seek on the journalistic side,'' he added, invoking the company's mantra that ''good journalism is good business.''
 Thomas Kunkel, dean of the University of Maryland journalism school, said that various researchers had tried over the years to find a cause-and-effect between good journalism and good business, but such proof was elusive.
 ''There are so many factors. It's hard to prove the point,'' he said. ''And in the case of McClatchy, you can't sort out their success from the markets they're in.'' But, he added, McClatchy ''is certainly demonstrating by doing things right journalistically that they have done very well.''
 Like many newspapers, McClatchy is taking several steps to try to keep readers engaged. For one thing, it has embarked on an ambitious Internet plan involving ''local search,'' a way of grouping and indexing information and advertising by geographical area, whether it originates with a McClatchy newspaper, a local television station, an advertiser or a resident. McClatchy also hopes to hold onto classified advertising that is migrating to Craigslist and eBay by letting consumers advertise free, both in print and online, if they are selling merchandise valued at less than $150 or $250, depending on the paper.
 ''McClatchy is not going to escape the overall climactic change that is affecting the entire industry,'' said Colby Atwood, vice president of Borrell Associates, a media research firm. ''But it may be among the newspaper companies that successfully transition into the next chapter of the business.''
 The next chapter is online, where McClatchy is already competitive. The Washington Post Company leads the pack with 8.8 percent of its total advertising revenues coming from its online operations, he said, followed by Knight Ridder Inc. with 5.8 percent, The New York Times Company with 4.8 percent and McClatchy with 4.5 percent.
 Newsrooms have generally been slow to adapt to the Web, and McClatchy's have been no different. Howard Weaver, who oversees news operations for McClatchy, said getting reporters and editors to embrace the Web was his biggest challenge, along with maintaining credibility. While the papers are largely autonomous, he is encouraging them to do all they can to help readers understand the news-gathering process. He said he wanted the editors to ''write more often about why they do what they do,'' whether they write blogs online or columns in print. The papers are undertaking ''accuracy audits'' in which they survey people who appeared in articles to see if they were represented properly. And some papers have invited citizens to sit in on their Page 1 meetings.
 But is it not clear if the company's moves are making any difference to readers, at least in Sacramento, where several were interviewed and said their newspaper habits were already set.
 Johnny Briones, 34, who owns an open-front furniture warehouse called J. Evans, where he was lounging in the scorching afternoon heat, said he loved The Bee, starting with its delivery by 4 in the morning and its placement on his porch (a point of pride for The Bee). He checks Yahoo.com during the day but is still devoted to the morning paper because ''it has a more complete story and has more facts and details.'' Besides, he said, ''Yahoo won't tell you if someone broke into the place around the corner, and I need to know that.''
 But Rick Poe, 41, a sheet-metal fabricator who moved to Sacramento this summer and was standing on the sidewalk as his car was being cleared of a downed limb, said he had not been contacted by The Bee and would not subscribe no matter what the paper offered. ''I'm not that interested,'' he said. ''I watch TV, and that's enough.''
 Meanwhile, the company is sitting on loads of cash and mulling whether to return it to shareholders in bigger dividends or buy another newspaper, though no growth markets appear to have any for sale. That short-term quandary reflects the company's larger choice about its future -- whether to stick with the status quo or strive for a bolder profile. 
 ''As an investor, I would love to see them increase the scale of this business,'' said Mr. Appert, the Goldman Sachs analyst. ''They've got the breadth and depth of management to run a bigger enterprise. The challenge is finding a market that meets their standards.''
 Even if they find such a paper, McClatchy will step carefully. ''We might be accused of overpaying for a newspaper,'' said Elaine Lintecum, the company treasurer, alluding to its $1.4 billion payment in 1998 for The Star Tribune. ''But our goal is to not be accused of buying the wrong newspaper.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Rick Rodriguez, Gary B. Pruitt and Linda Gonzales in the newsroom of The Sacramento Bee, which McClatchy owns. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Anders Gyllenhaal, editor of The Star Tribune in Minneapolis, and Melanie Sill, executive editor at The News & Observer in Raleigh, N.C. McClatchy concentrates on newspapers in high-growth areas. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); LAYOFFS (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DIVESTITURES (72%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (67%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (62%); COMPANY EARNINGS (62%) Newspapers; Advertising and Marketing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Newspapers

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (96%); E W SCRIPPS CO (60%); SACRAMENTO BEE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Mcclatchy Co; Sacramento Bee (Newspaper); Star Tribune (Minneapolis); News & Observer (Raleigh, NC)

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (96%); SSP (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: GARY B PRUITT (89%) Gary B Pruitt; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (87%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



433 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Says It Is Ready To Pump More Oil

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: VIENNA, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Representatives of OPEC said Sunday they were prepared to increase their oil production ceiling but warned that high oil prices were caused by refinery shortfalls, which are beyond their control.
 The group's president said that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries was also discussing an alternative proposal of releasing two million barrels a day of production it currently holds as spare capacity, saying the move would send a strong signal that OPEC had untapped reserves to meet demands.
''These are our reserves and we are offering all we have to the market,'' said Sheik Ahmad Fahad Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, the president of OPEC and the oil minister from Kuwait. ''This is a very generous offer that shows OPEC is responsible. Refineries are not our responsibility.'' 
 Still, as they prepared to meet here for the first time since Hurricane Katrina agitated oil markets three weeks ago, some oil ministers, including the representative from Saudi Arabia, indicated they favored raising the group's official production quota by 500,000 barrels a day, an increase of under 2 percent. The moves come in response to pressure from consuming nations that are increasingly concerned about the effect of high prices on their economies. 
 But it is unlikely that either lifting the group's quota or indicating that it is ready to produce more oil will bring much new supply to the market. OPEC says it believes, as do most oil analysts, that the bottleneck in energy supplies comes from the inability of refiners to process enough oil to meet demand, not from a shortage of crude oil. Even if OPEC increased production, it would be unlikely to find many buyers.
 The refining crunch was worsened after Hurricane Katrina disabled four major refineries along the Gulf of Mexico, which together account for 5 percent of American refining capacity, putting them out of commission for months.
 ''The constraints are not on the supply side,'' Ali Al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, told reporters after arriving in Vienna on Saturday. ''The constraints are downstream. Katrina damaged some infrastructure and that's why people aren't taking crude.''
 The group's ceiling is currently set at 28 million barrels a day, excluding the output from Iraq. According to OPEC's most recent statistics, the group's actual production is closer to 28.2 million barrels a day. 
 So the group's oil ministers are left to perform a delicate balancing act as they kick off their two-day meeting on Monday, providing some reassurance that they are serious about keeping oil markets well supplied while realizing they cannot do much to rein in prices.
 The difficulties of refiners were apparent last week when the United States Energy Department said it had sold 11 million barrels from the nation's strategic reserves, only a third of the 30 million barrels it had initially pledged.
 OPEC ministers, who were meeting through Sunday evening, have yet to reach an agreement. Some ministers suggested there was no need to put extra oil on the market. ''The market is well supplied -- actually it is in balance,'' said Edmund Daukoru, Nigeria's representative. ''After Katrina, everybody offered crude but the refining capacity was not there to cope with it.'' 
 Some officials, including the representatives from the United Arab Emirates and Qatar, said that an increase in the production ceiling might not be necessary because demand was weakening. 
 After the hurricane punched through America's main energy hub three weeks ago, disrupting production, crippling refiners and pushing prices above $70 a barrel, little was heard from OPEC, an 11-country group that pumps more than a third of the world's crude oil. Instead, consuming nations dipped into their own reserves to make up for the production shortfall from the Gulf of Mexico. 
 To put a lid on prices, the Bush administration took the rare step of tapping into the nation's strategic stocks, something it had always been very reluctant to do. And the International Energy Agency, which usually provides advice on energy policies to 26 industrialized nations, activated its emergency oil plan and released oil for only the second time in its 29-year history. 
 OPEC said then that it was ready to ''fill any supply shortfall,'' while Saudi Arabia said it would open the taps. 
 The trouble is that OPEC has little more to give. Since 2003, the group has cranked up its output by 10 percent, or 2.6 million barrels a day, to make up for a 5 percent jump in global oil demand. That increase leaves only one of OPEC's members, Saudi Arabia, with any spare capacity.
 The group's top producer, Saudi Arabia is now pumping about 9.5 million barrels a day. It still has 1.5 million barrels a day of extra capacity, but that extra crude has found few buyers because it is consists of a viscous and sulfur-rich variety that refiners have trouble processing.
 European leaders have been particularly vocal in recent weeks about the impact of high prices. The Europe Union's energy commissioner, Andris Piebalgs, took the unusual step of meeting with Sheik Ahmad, the OPEC president, on Sunday to share his concerns.
 Even in the United States, where gasoline prices have risen above $3 a gallon for the first time, alternative forms of energy and conservation measures are gaining popularity. 
 Given that climate, OPEC had to act even if the group has little leeway, said Vera de Ladoucette, an energy analyst with Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
 ''OPEC has to respond to a political message with a political signal of its own,'' she said. ''They are not irrelevant. But under the present circumstances, they seem a little powerless.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Sheik Ahmad Fahad Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, OPEC's current president, in Vienna this weekend. Right, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Ali Al-Naimi. (Photo by Heinz-Peter Bader/Reuters)
 (Photo by Mark H. Milstein/Bloomberg News)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); HURRICANES (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); WEATHER (73%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Refineries; Production; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Shortages; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: Dennis Mcdougal

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (93%) GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) AUSTRIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



434 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Scheduled for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included the regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills today and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow.
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 3.48 percent, the rate on the six-month issue was 3.81 percent and on the four-week issue was 3.19 percent. 
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT
TOMORROW
 Osseo Independent School District No. 279, Maple Grove, Minn., $69.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 San Jose-Santa Clara, Calif., Water Pollution Control, $55.6 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Tacoma, Wash., Electric System, $240.9 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
 Minnesota, $558.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Utah Transit Authority, Salt Lake City, $170 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 South Washington Independent School District No. 833, Cottage Grove, Minn., $55.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK

 Albuquerque Bernalillo County Water Utility Authority, $128 million of joint water and sewer system improvement revenue bonds. RBC Dain Rauscher.
 City of Phoenix Civic Improvement Corporation, $300 million of revenue bonds for the civic plaza expansion project. Lehman Brothers.
 Corpus Christi, Tex., Utility System, $69.1 million of revenue refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Fitchburg, Mass., $80 million of general obligation bonds. First Southwest.
 Foothill-De Anza Community College District, Los Altos Hills, Calif., $80.9 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley. 
 Harris County, Tex., $175 million of toll road senior lien revenue and refunding bonds. J.P. Morgan.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $750 million of school facilities construction bonds. RBC Dain Rauscher.
 New York City Housing Authority, $151 million of debt securities. Bear Stearns.
 New York State Thruway Authority, $735 million of debt securities. Bear Stearns.
 Puerto Rico Highway Authority, $2 billion of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Sonoma County Junior College District, Santa Rosa, Calif., $105 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Vermont Housing Finance Agency, $58.2 million of single-family mortgage securities. UBS.
 Virginia Federal Highway Reimbursement Anticipation Notes, $250 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (75%); SCHOOL BONDS (75%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); CITIGROUP INC (85%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (69%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (65%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); RY (TSX) (69%); RY (SWX) (69%); RY (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



435 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 438 words

 BODY:
DAY OF RECKONING -- Today is the day that L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former chief executive of Tyco International, and his chief financial officer, Mark H. Swartz, are to be sentenced on charges of looting the company of $150 million. Both men face up to 30 years in prison. Two other convicted executives who received long prison terms -- Bernard J. Ebbers of WorldCom and John J. Rigas of Adelphia Communications -- remain free on appeal. 
 ANOTHER JAB AT WAL-MART -- Also today, Representative Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, is holding what he calls the first Congressional hearing on Wal-Mart to determine if its business model ''is the best we can do for America.'' He apparently sees room for improvement, complaining in a press release that Wal-Mart has a history of forcing local businesses to close and of paying low wages and skimping on benefits. The hearings, which will take place in Cleveland, follow a class-action lawsuit filed last week by the International Labor Rights Fund accusing Wal-Mart of permitting sweatshop conditions at factories in foreign countries.
 AND THEN THERE WERE 11 -- Economists expect the Federal Reserve to bump up interest rates by yet another quarter point at its meeting tomorrow. There had been speculation that the Fed might pause its campaign to tighten credit until a clearer picture emerged of the damage wreaked on the economy by Hurricane Katrina, but new evidence of inflationary pressures has pretty much dampened that notion. The central bank has raised rates 10 times over the past 14 months.
 ON THE OTHER HAND, WHO KNOWS? -- The latest jobless claims will be announced Thursday, and are expected to jump for the second week in a row in Katrina's aftermath. On the same day, the Conference Board will release its monthly index of leading economic indicators, a gauge of where the economy is headed. And what if the number of housing starts, being announced tomorrow, is lower than expected, fanning new fears of a slump in one of the strongest sectors of the economy? Just asking. 
 BACK ON THE SCREEN -- Martha Stewart's ''Apprentice'' TV show will make its debut on Wednesday, and she will no doubt be aiming to project a warmer, fuzzier image than Donald Trump did. As she told Time magazine last week, ''Donald loves to fire people. I find it an extremely unpleasant exercise. I have other people do it for me.''
 WALL STREET HEAVYWEIGHTS -- Goldman Sachs will report earnings tomorrow and Morgan Stanley -- which appointed John J. Mack, a former president, to succeed Philip J. Purcell at the helm in late June -- on Wednesday. Oracle will announce its results on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); SWEATSHOPS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); INFLATION (73%); GARMENT WORKERS (73%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); HOUSING STARTS (66%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); HURRICANE KATRINA (64%); HURRICANES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); TIME WARNER INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOR RIGHTS FORUM (55%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); TWX (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (56%); JOHN J MACK (56%); SHERROD BROWN (55%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



436 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; POP REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Marsalis Leads a Charge For the Cradle of Jazz

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
True to New Orleans ritual, ''Higher Ground'' -- the benefit for Hurricane Katrina relief at the Rose Theater on Saturday night -- opened with a processional and wound up with a parade. 
 Wynton Marsalis, the artistic director of Jazz at Lincoln Center, which presented the show, is from New Orleans and has always brought a justifiable hometown pride to his programs. He has also stocked the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra with musicians who learned New Orleans style at the source. The five-hour concert mixed affirmation, mourning and glints of anger at the devastation of the cradle of jazz. (It was slightly compressed for broadcast on PBS and NPR, and is being repeated on many stations.) 
The concert's most touching moment was a performance by the New Orleans trumpeter Irvin Mayfield. His father, he said, is still among the missing. He played ''Just a Closer Walk with Thee,'' the hymn that becomes both dirge and celebration at New Orleans funerals. From a hushed, sustained, almost tearful beginning, it turned more assertive and ornate, with growls and extended slides, determined to rise above sorrow.
 The actor Laurence Fishburne, a New Orleans resident, was the host. Between songs, he read historical and literary tributes to the city. He also said it had endured ''a plague of light-fingered politicians'' and ''generations of malign neglect from Baton Rouge and Washington.'' Elvis Costello, who performed with the New Orleans songwriter Allen Toussaint, noted that some conservatives were already warning about the cost of rebuilding the city. ''An effort like this can never be too expensive,'' he declared.
 The program interspersed New Orleans standards -- Aaron Neville and Mr. Toussaint sharing ''Go to the Mardi Gras,'' Diana Krall singing a relaxed, sultry ''Basin Street Blues'' -- with other songs transformed by the context. The pianist Herbie Hancock led a trio in his ''Eye of the Hurricane,'' a jagged, shifting tune he played with percussive intensity. 
 Female singers reached for somber redemption. Cassandra Wilson, who is from Mississippi, sang a richly reverent ''Come Sunday,'' and Abbey Lincoln sang ''For All We Know'' in hovering, elegiac slow motion. Stephanie Jordan, the singer in a musical family from New Orleans, made ''Here's to Life'' sound wounded but determined. Norah Jones sang Randy Newman's ''I Think It's Going to Rain Today'' with melancholy modesty. Renee Fleming sang ''Amazing Grace'' with just a hint of operatic inflection. Bette Midler, however, made the odd choice of the cynical ''Is That All There Is?''
 Mr. Marsalis led small and large groups, sketching a long New Orleans continuum from King Oliver's ''Dipper Mouth Blues'' to his own swinging big-band piece ''Back to Basics'' (with a whinnying plunger-muted solo) to modal jazz with members of his family. 
 The pianist Marcus Roberts played his ''New Orleans Blues,'' riffling elegantly through styles from gospel to stride to rumba to modern jazz. Terence Blanchard, a trumpeter and film composer originally from New Orleans, led a composition steeped in melancholy dignity. The saxophonist Joe Lovano played ''Blackwell's Message,'' dedicated to a drummer from New Orleans.
 Paul Simon played his zydeco-based ''That Was Your Mother'' backed by the Louisiana accordionist Buckwheat Zydeco, while James Taylor offered his metaphysical ''Never Die Young.'' Others chose songs with social concerns. Jon Hendricks sang a bossa nova with a political accusation, ''Tell Me the Truth,'' and Mr. Costello reached for the anguish and fervor in Mr. Toussaint's song ''Freedom for the Stallion.'' Dianne Reeves poured her voice into the didactic ''The House I Live In.'' And the pianist and singer Peter Cincotti introduced a new song, ''Bring Back New Orleans.''
 To begin and end the concert, Mr. Marsalis chose parade tunes that were modern takes on New Orleans tradition: ''Ain No,'' rooted in Mardi Gras chants, and Duke Ellington's ''Second Line.'' The finale turned into a handkerchief-waving parade through the aisles and back to the stage for a loose, raucous jam that continued after much of the audience had left -- the kind of neighborhood party that's at the heart of New Orleans music. Now it's uncertain whether those neighborhoods will ever return.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 21, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A pop review on Monday about a Hurricane Katrina benefit at the Rose Theater in New York misidentified the composer of ''New Orleans Blues,'' played by the pianist Marcus Roberts. It is by Jelly Roll Morton, not Mr. Roberts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wynton Marsalis (with trumpet) led musicians in a New Orleans-style parade through the aisles at the benefit concert on Saturday night. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); THEATER (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); HURRICANES (78%); MARDI GRAS (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); SONG WRITING (71%); CONSERVATISM (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



437 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: THE TRANSITION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Voters Take the Next Step to Democracy 

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL and SOMINI SENGUPTA; Carlotta Gall reported from Kabul for this article, and Somini Sengupta from Kandahar.

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Undeterred by threats from Taliban insurgents and saboteurs, millions of Afghans voted Sunday in the country's first free legislative elections in more than a quarter of a century. It was the last formal step toward Afghanistan's transition to a democratic government after the American-led military ouster of the Taliban nearly four years ago.
 The crucial question now is whether any of the former warlords who once ruled this country succeeded in persuading Afghans to vote them into office. Results of the elections, in which a large number of former militia commanders vied for seats in Parliament and provincial councils, will be announced next month.
 Despite scattered reports of shootings and attempted sabotage that left five people dead during the day and two police officers dead on the eve of the election, the vast bulk of the voting went remarkably smoothly, election officials and international observers said. 
 Some officials said early assessments showed that the turnout among the 12.4 million Afghans who had registered to vote was about 50 percent, lower than had been hoped. But the officials suggested that the turnout reflected voter confusion over the 5,800 candidates, not intimidation from threats of a major attack from the Taliban, the Islamist extremists who sheltered Al Qaeda here before the American-led invasion evicted them from power. 
 The Free and Fair Elections Foundations of Afghanistan, or FEFA, which sent more than 7,000 observers around the country, listed a large number of security incidents and election violations, including serious cases of intimidation, but said they did not affect the results. 
 ''Low turnout was a definite setback,'' said Ahmad Nader Nadery, the director of FEFA. He estimated that turnout would be significantly lower than the estimated 70 percent in the presidential election last October. He blamed an electoral system that allowed for too many candidates to run and prevented political parties from emerging as strong entities.
 While there were numerous accounts of voter intimidation and tussling among supporters of rival candidates, officials dismissed them as relatively innocuous -- considering this country has withstood so many years of conflict and warlordism. 
 ''We did see some procedural irregularities but nothing that I consider systemic and which would have influenced the overall conduct of the election,'' said Peter Erben, the chief international election officer with the Joint Elections Management Board, which operates with the assistance of the United Nations. ''This was a peaceful and good election.'' 
 He added that only 16 of roughly 6,000 polling sites did not open. 
 ''I came for my country and for a better future,'' said Alem, 25, a fruit seller who goes by one name like many Afghans. He was one of scores of men and women lined up under flags and bunting in the main mosque of the Old City in Kabul. ''We will have a good future with a parliament. They should serve us well and bring some prosperity and security.'' 
 The strength and substance of the parliament will be an important test of Afghanistan's still fragile transition to peace. The parliamentary elections, nearly a year after the election for president last October, had been clouded in recent weeks by a spate of guerrilla attacks against the Afghan government and its American backers. The elections signal the end of the Bonn Accords of 2001, the international program for Afghanistan's transition since the fall of the Taliban. 
 ''It's a day of self-determination for the Afghan people,'' said President Hamid Karzai, looking tired as he voted at 7 a.m. at government offices in central Kabul. ''After 30 years of wars, interventions, occupation and misery, today Afghanistan is moving forward, making an economy, making political institutions.'' 
 A leading opposition politician, Muhammad Yunus Qanooni, called it a memorable day that he hoped would reward his bloc of parties with a majority in the new parliament. 
 Some voters said they hoped that the elections would usher in the changes that the Karzai government had failed to deliver thus far. 
 ''President Karzai made big promises to us and nothing appeared,'' said Muhammad Es Haq, 50, an unemployed man who said he survived on charity as a cleaner at a Kabul mosque. ''If it is a good parliament they will make something of those promises.'' 
 Muhammad Akbar, 60, another unemployed man who arrived at dawn and waited an hour for voting to start in his local mosque in western Kabul, said: ''I came to vote for our future. There should be changes and jobs created for the people. Our country should at least be developing.'' 
 In some parts of the country, the former militia leaders were seen as the men who could deliver on promises of development, which in a country without any industry to speak of, except drug trafficking, refers chiefly to donor-financed projects.
 In a village on the outskirts of Kandahar, as his followers waited patiently for him to cast the first vote, Hajji Amir Laley, the leader of aninfluential anti-Soviet mujahedeen faction and a candidate for the parliament, arrived in a three-vehicle convoy covered with his campaign posters. Another of his posters was pasted onto the entrance wall of the polling site itself, a violation of election law. No one else's posters could be found anywhere. Indeed, so popular was the candidate himself that he marched into the polling station, a small coterie of men at his side, without a pat-down search, which was required of everyone else.
 ''Everyone trusts him,'' explained Abdul Nabi, a big man with a sparkly cap and one of Mr. Laley's former fighters. ''He is the one who secures the area.''
 As a powerful warlord, Mr. Laley once controlled an important stretch of the highway between Kabul and Kandahar. His followers credited him with having saved the one piece of industry in the area -- a textile factory in Daman district, in whose shadow the voting took place Sunday morning. 
 ''He is not a warlord; he was fighting jihad against the Soviets,'' insisted Muhammad Daoud, 31, referring to the Russian invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. ''We hope he gets elected. We will get jobs and contracts for our area.'' 
 A small, grinning boy voted, too. He looked to be about 13. A poll worker in charge of screening voters suspected of being underage said the boy had a voting card. He later said the boy was Mr. Laley's son. 
 ''It's an irregular polling station,'' said Sanaullah, an observer with an independent Afghan organization, the Human Rights Commission. 
 The involvement of former warlords has been a source of great debate in the prelude to the vote.
 At a women's polling center in Kabul, Rahima, 40, said she did not believe that former warlords would secure much support. ''I don't think they will win,'' she said. ''Even small boys know who they are.'' 
 In an interview on Saturday night in his Kandahar home, Qayoom Karzai, the president's brother and a candidate for the parliament, rued the abiding influence of former commanders on Afghan politics. He criticized the decision to reward some of them with top government positions -- a decision made by his brother -- and said he hoped that elections would redeem those running for office now.
 ''If a warlord is voted in, I believe it sort of legitimizes that man,'' he said. ''Hopefully, he will act as a clean man.''
 The election-day violence included an attack using mortars and heavy artillery in Kunar Province that killed four people, Mr. Jalali said. An Afghan soldier died and four others were wounded in Nuristan, while two police officers were killed in an attack on a security post in Khost early Sunday before voting began, he said.
 The police thwarted some violent sabotage, including an attempt by two men to enter a polling station with bombs hidden in pens. The police also defused a large amount of explosives in the northern town of Mazar-i-Sharif. Two rockets hit a United Nations warehouse in Kabul on Sunday, wounding an Afghan guard. In Helmand, to the west, an attack on a polling station led to a gun battle with the police that killed two men suspected of being members of the Taliban, the police said. 
 Still, with many provinces bracing for violence, officials expressed relief as polls closed. ''There was no suicide attack, no bombings,'' said Asadullah Khalid, the governor of Kandahar. ''Candidates fighting?'' He shrugged.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman working at a polling station in Kandahar yesterday as Afghanistan held parliamentary elections. (Photo by Saurabh Das/Associated Press)(pg. A14)Map of Afghanistan highlighting Kabul: Many former warlords hope to join the legislature in Kabul. (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); TALIBAN (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORISM (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%) Taliban (Afghan Group)

PERSON: Carlotta Gall; Somini Sengupta

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



438 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

North Korea Agrees to End Nuclear Arms Program
North Korea agreed to end its nuclear weapons program in return for security, economic and energy benefits, potentially easing tensions with the United States after a two-year standoff over the country's efforts to build atomic bombs. The agreement with the six countries participating in the talks, is a preliminary one that would require future rounds of negotiations to flesh out, as it does not address a range of issues like timing and implementation. A1

No Winner in German Election
After a bitterly fought campaign that many people in Germany had believed only a few days ago would produce a historic vote for change, the electorate failed to give any party or candidate a clear majority. A1

In an election that produced no winner, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder provided a facsimile of one, bounding to a stage to raucous applause, his hands clasped above his head in a victory gesture. Playing on the fears of change-averse Germans, he battled back from a deficit to bring his party to a virtual draw with the Christian Democrats. A10

Afghan Voters Take Next Step
Millions of Afghans voted in the country's first contested legislative elections in more than a quarter of a century, the last formal step toward Afghanistan's transition to a democratic government following the American-led military ouster of the Taliban government nearly four years ago. Results of the vote are to be announced next month. A1

Shiite Endurance Tested
Insurgents in Iraq have pointedly shifted their focus toward killing Shiite civilians, with the number of attacks rising sharply since the spring. If the country has not yet slid into open civil war, it is mainly because a vast majority of Shiites refused to be drawn into the killing. A1

Uzbek Refugees Live in Fear
The 439 Uzbek refugees living in a United Nations camp in Romania still fear their government's reach. They are the largest group of survivors of what human rights groups say was a massacre at the hands of Uzbek security forces, who in May acted to put down an armed uprising in the city of Andijan, killing hundreds of people. A3

NATIONAL A16-21

Official Urges DelayOf New Orleans Return
Citing health and safety concerns, the top official in charge of the federal response to Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts urged a delay to a plan that is slowly bringing people back to a city largely without power, drinking water or a working 911 system. A1

More than a quarter of the dead recovered so far in New Orleans are patients, mostly elderly, who died in hospitals or nursing homes, according to interviews with officials from eight area hospitals and 26 nursing homes. By the scores, people without choice of whether to leave or stay died in New Orleans, trapped in health care facilities and in many cases abandoned by their would-be government rescuers. A1

Only now are searchers beginning to force their way into homes in a neighborhood just south of Lake Pontchartrain and part of the Gentilly section of New Orleans. While much of the rest of the city is drying out and making steps towards recovery, this mostly middle-class neighborhood's topography and promixity to a breach in the London Avenue Canal has made it the largest remaining swath of the city still under water. A19

Former President Bill Clinton, asked by President Bush to help raise money for the victims of Hurricane Katrina, offered harsh public criticism of the Bush administration's disaster-relief effort, saying, ''You can't have an emergency plan that works if it only affects middle-class people up.'' A21

Changing Voting Procedures
A private commission led by former President Jimmy Carter and former Secretary of State James A. Baker III is proposing new steps to strengthen state election procedures and recommending that Congress require the political parties to hold four regional presidential primaries in election years rather than allowing states to hold primaries whenever they wish. A16

Speed Cited in Chicago Crash
A commuter train headed into Chicago from Joliet was going 69 miles an hour in a 10 m.p.h. zone just before it derailed, killing two people, the National Transportation Safety Board said. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

New Jersey Congressman Ready to Step Up
Representative Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey with a reputation for extreme tactics, may achieve his childhood dream of becoming a United States senator if Senator Jon S. Corzine, now running for governor, wins the election and picks him as successor. B1

Courting Minority Voters
The complicated calculus of race relations bubbled to the surface as Mayor Bloomberg and his Democratic opponent, Fernando Ferrer, began the first real weekend of the general election campaign at the African American Day Parade in Harlem. B1

FASHION B6-7

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Jets Defeat Dolphins
The Jets rebounded from last week's loss to Kansas City by defeating the Miami Dolphins, 17-7. Chad Pennington was 19 for 30 for 190 yards and 2 touchdowns. In the first, Pennington found Laveranues Coles, who had made three critical drops against Kansas City, in the far right corner of the end zone. D1

ARTS E1-10

57th Annual Emmy Awards
''Lost,'' the drama about castaway life on a Pacific island following a plane crash, and ''Everybody Loves Raymond,'' the dysfunctional family comedy that ended its nine-year run in May, were honored as the top series on television last night during the 57th annual presentation of the prime-time Emmy Awards. E1

OBITUARIES A23

Donn Clendenon
A first baseman who was the most valuable player in the 1969 World Series, when he hit three home runs to help propel the team known as the Miracle Mets to a five-game triumph over the Baltimore Orioles, he was 70. A23

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

OPEC May Lift Quota
OPEC said it was prepared to increase its oil-production ceiling but warned that high oil prices were caused by shortfalls in refineries beyond its control. C1

Writers Guild Funds
The Writers Guild of America is holding about $6 million for writers or estates of writers as ''undeliverable funds.'' The unclaimed money has become the latest controversy surrounding the union. C1

Predicting Television Hits
Advertising agencies are turning to sources like chat rooms on the Web to try to determine which television programs will become the biggest hits of the season. C1

Fighting Movie Pirates
The six major Hollywood studios, hoping to gain more control over their technological destiny, have agreed to jointly finance a research laboratory to speed the development of new ways to foil movie pirates. C5

Controversial Children's Drink
Kidsbeer, a Japanese soft drink bottled and formulated to look like beer, may soon be available throughout Europe, but watchdogs of under-age drinking say they will fight any effort to ship it to the United States. C8

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Taking full responsibility; bad company; Angelina and Jeff's excellent ideas; one father, back in court, indefatigable.

Columns: Bob Herbert and Paul Krugman.

Autos D9
Bridge E4
Crossword E2
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E8
Weather B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); NURSING HOMES (83%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (83%); POWER FAILURES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALIBAN (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CIVIL WAR (69%); REFUGEES (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); DISASTER RELIEF (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (61%); HURRICANES (60%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); HEALTH CARE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); ROMANIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



439 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 729 words

PERSON: Jay M. Gould

HEADLINE: Jay M. Gould Dies at 90; Warned of A-Plant Risks

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
Jay M. Gould, a statistician and epidemiologist whose contention that radiation from nuclear power plants was causing high rates of cancer in surrounding neighborhoods made him a leading figure in the antinuclear movement, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 90 and lived on the Upper East Side.
 The cause was heart disease, said his daughter Emily Gould.
Over the last two decades, Dr. Gould routinely warned that low levels of radiation from nuclear reactors were far more dangerous than commonly believed and were quietly poisoning Americans. His research was widely credited with raising awareness about possible safety issues with the nation's 100-plus nuclear reactors, but it was also criticized by much of the scientific community as alarmist. 
 Some of his most controversial work, which drew on his background in statistics, involved mining government data for patterns of disease in towns near nuclear reactors. Dr. Gould would often find that cancer and infant mortality rates climbed when reactors were activated, then began to drop when they were closed, a phenomenon he attributed to exposure to small but constant doses of radiation and contaminated groundwater. One of his most frequent targets was Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, which he argued had caused an 11 percent spike in breast cancer rates among women who lived within 15 miles of the site. 
 ''I can state as a professional statistician that the probability that the elevated rates in central Suffolk could be due to chance is less than one in 10,000,'' he said in a letter published in The New York Times in 1994. 
 But his detractors, particularly the nuclear industry, complained that Dr. Gould and his colleagues were obsessing over amounts of radiation that Americans are exposed to on a daily basis from various sources, like cosmic rays. At the time his research on breast cancer rates in Suffolk County was making headlines, one scientist, Jean Howard of Brookhaven's medical department, said that the largest dose of radiation a person could be inadvertently exposed to from the reactor was actually only one millirem -- about as much as that from a single X-ray at a dentist's office.
 ''There is no evidence in the peer-reviewed scientific literature that would support his hypothesis,'' Dr. Howard said in a letter to The Times in 1996. ''And many scientists unaffiliated with Brookhaven disagree with him.'' 
 In 1985, Dr. Gould founded the Radiation and Public Health Project, an antinuclear research group. The organization is best known for its ''Tooth Fairy Project,'' which measured levels of a radioactive substance called strontium 90 in baby teeth to determine relative levels in children born near nuclear power plants. In 2001, the group released findings that it said showed that levels of strontium 90 rose by 40 percent in baby teeth in Suffolk County, childhood cancer rates had simultaneously climbed by almost 50 percent. 
 Born in Chicago in 1915 and raised in New York, Jay Martin Gould earned his bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College and his doctorate from Columbia University. He was originally an economist before getting interested in radiation. In 1970, he started a successful company called Economic Information System, which used computer technology to do economic forecasting.
 After selling the company in 1980, he was appointed to an environmental protection agency advisory board by President Jimmy Carter. It was then that he began using his background in statistics to do studies of mortality rates and toxic waste dumps across the country, which eventually led him to focus on nuclear power plants. 
 Dr. Gould was also a prolific writer and frequent critic of the government. One of his most popular books was ''Deadly Deceit: Low-Level Radiation, High-Level Cover-Up'' (Avalon, 1990). In it, he used government and nuclear industry records to argue that health officials had manipulated data to hide the fact that radiation from atom bomb tests, power plants, and even the Chernobyl accident had very likely injured countless Americans. 
 Besides his daughter Emily, of Williamstown, Vt., Dr. Gould is survived by his wife of 36 years, Jane Gould; a second daughter, Diana Gould, of Pacific Palisades, Calif.; two stepchildren, Nancy Schwartz of Middletown, Conn., and David Schwartz of Tucson; and two grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); DEATHS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); CANCER (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); PHYSICS (78%); BREAST CANCER (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); CHILDREN (75%); INFANT MORTALITY (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); WATER POLLUTION (52%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Atomic Energy; Radiation; Accidents and Safety

COMPANY: ASHTEAD PLANT HIRE CO LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (55%)

Anahad O'Connor

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Nature and Environment

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



440 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: NORTH KOREA SAYS IT WILL ABANDON NUCLEAR EFFORTS

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Monday, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
North Korea agreed Monday to end its nuclear weapons program in return for security, economic and energy benefits, potentially easing tensions with the United States after a two-year standoff over the North's efforts to build atomic bombs.
 The United States, North Korea and four other nations participating in negotiations in Beijing signed a draft accord in which the North promised to abandon efforts to produce nuclear weapons and re-admit international inspectors to its nuclear facilities.
Foreign powers said they would provide aid, diplomatic assurances and security guarantees and consider North Korea's demands for a light-water nuclear reactor.
 The agreement is preliminary and will require more rounds of negotiations to flesh out because it does not address a range of issues like timing and implementation that are likely to prove contentious. China announced that the nations taking part in the talks would reconvene in November to continue ironing out the details. 
 Even so, the agreement marks the first time since the United States accused North Korea violating a previous accord in 2002 that the two countries have drawn up a road map for ending their dispute through peaceful means.
 It also appears to rescue a diplomatic process that appeared to be on the verge of collapse after multiple rounds of negotiations failed to produce even a joint statement of principles. The Bush administration had said it was prepared to take tougher measures, including freezing North Korean assets abroad and pushing for international sanctions, if the latest round of talks collapsed.
 Christopher Hill, the chief American negotiator, had said before the agreement was announced that he was determined to end the discussions and return to Washington. The breakthrough came at the last minute, after American officials had prepared to wrap up the negotiations without an accord.
 Progress in the talks may also give the United States and European countries some diplomatic momentum in their negotiations with Iran over its nuclear weapons program, which is not considered as advanced as the North Korean one.
 More generally, it would appear to boost support for people inside the Bush administration who favored pursuing laborious negotiations with the North Koreans. Hard-liners in the administration and in Congress had raised questions about the usefulness of negotiations with the North, which they argued had no intention of abandoning its nuclear weapons.
 The draft accord commits North Korea to scrap all of its existing nuclear weapons and nuclear production facilities, to rejoin the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and to readmit international nuclear inspectors. North Korea withdrew from the treaty and expelled inspectors in 2002, after the United States accused it of violating a previous agreement to end its nuclear program.
 The United States and North Korea also pledged to respect each other's sovereignty and right to peaceful coexistence and to work toward normalization of relations. The two countries have no full diplomatic relations and did not sign a peace treaty after the Korean War.
 Washington declared as part of the agreement that it does not have any nuclear weapons at its bases in South Korea and that it ''has no intention to attack or invade the D.P.R.K. with nuclear or conventional weapons.'' The D.P.R.K. stands for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, North Korea's formal name.
 The accord finessed what had been the biggest sticking point in the latest round of talks -- the light-water nuclear reactor -- by leaving it to be resolved in future discussions. North Korea demanded throughout the week-long session that the international community agree to provide it with a light-water reactor before it took steps to dismantle its nuclear program.
 The United States firmly rejected that demand, though it did not rule out the possibility that the North could retain some kind of civilian nuclear program down the road if it abandoned its weapons program.
 The statement said North Korea claimed the right to pursue ''peaceful uses of nuclear energy.'' Mr. Hill said he expected that a light-water reactor would cost $2 billion to $3 billion and would take a decade to build. While a light-water reactor does not produce fuel for atomic weapons the way the North's existing modified-graphite reactors do, American officials have said it still raises proliferation risks and cannot be a first step in arranging the nuclear disarmament of the country.
 North Korea has said it requires the new nuclear plant to provide electricity. But Mr. Hill said building a new nuclear plant would be an inefficient way of boosting electricity supplies. He said the North considers a civilian nuclear plant a ''trophy.''
 The draft agreement includes a commitment by South Korea to build power plants and transmission lines to provide the North with two thousand megawatts of electricity, enough to roughly double to total supply of electrical power for its northern neighbor.
 Although many details remain unresolved, the accord appears to be a significant victory for China. Beijing brokered the agreement after being the host for multiple rounds of difficult and inclusive talks. It cajoled both the United States and North Korea to continue meeting each other despite repeated threats by both sides to discontinue negotiations.
 China has long argued that North Korea's nuclear problems cannot be dealt with through pressure or military force and must be addressed through comprehensive negotiations aimed at addressing the North's full range of concerns.
 The Bush administration also overhauled the substance and the style of its approach to North Korea. Officials stopped using the accusatory language President Bush once used when he called North Korea a member of the ''axis of evil'' and called the nation's leader, Kim Jong Il, a tyrant. 
 Instead, the Americans have worked closely with South Korea and China to address the North's security and economic concerns and have reassured the North that the United States recognizes it as sovereign. Officials relaxed their stand on the North retaining some kind of peaceful nuclear program, and offered the prospect of normalizing relations with country.
 Ultimately, the agreement will still face hurdles, including the degree of intrusiveness of inspections in the closed North Korean state, as well as to scope and nature of any peaceful nuclear program the North is allowed to retain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); KOREAN WAR (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Assets, Frozen

PERSON: Joseph Kahn; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%) North Korea; China; Russia; Japan; South Korea; North Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



441 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: TARGETS OF VIOLENCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Relentless Rebel Attacks Test Shiite Endurance 

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and ROBERT F. WORTH; Sahar Najib and Abdul Razzaq al-Saiedy contributed reporting from Baghdad for this article, and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times from Karbala.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
The rooms of the dead are mostly empty now. Their meager belongings are all that remain: A small pile of pickles wrapped in plastic. A bag of salt. Pairs of old shoes. Work shirts and towels draped on a coat rack in the corner. 
 The items, left in a hostel in the Kadhimiya neighborhood of Baghdad, belonged to poor Shiite day laborers who were killed Wednesday in a suicide bombing. The attacker lured them to his van with promises of work, then blew himself up, killing 114 people. It was this city's deadliest bombing since the American invasion and, it seemed to many, one of the cruelest.
That attack, and a string of others that have followed, all aimed at Shiites, have brought new vulnerability and dysfunction to the streets of Baghdad, the capital. For days, three of the four main roads leading in and out of Kadhimiya have been closed. Neighborhoods have been unusually quiet, as Shiites stay home, afraid to venture out. The violence has also reinforced a new reality of the war here: That Shiites are now paying the highest price in blood of any group in Iraq. 
 ''Americans are not attacked anymore; it's the Shiites who suffer from these bombings,'' said a 40-year-old owner of a cigarette shop in front of the bombing site, who gave only his nickname, Abu Ali. ''It is increasing now. Sometimes several in one day.''
 American service members are clearly still a major target of insurgent attacks, with deaths reported every week, and the overall toll in the war nearing 2,000. But in recent months, insurgents have pointedly shifted their focus toward killing Shiite civilians, with the number of attacks on mosques, markets and populated areas rising sharply since the spring. The threat of further massacres was sharpened last week when the architect of much of the killing, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, declared a ''full-scale war on Shiites all over Iraq, wherever and whenever they are found.''
 If the country has not yet slid into open civil war, it is mainly because a vast majority of Shiites have refused to be drawn into the killing. Adhering to the commands of their religious leaders in Najaf, they speak of the bombing in Kadhimiya as the latest tragedy in the long tale of suffering that dates to the founding of Shiism in the seventh century.
 But as the insurgency grows ever more deadly, the question is whether that historic tolerance for suffering will hold. 
 In Kadhimiya, the answer, at least so far, seemed to be yes. 
 ''It is God's will,'' said Ali Hussein, a 38-year-old laborer from Nasiriya, who lives in the hostel, called Haji Awda. ''Since ancient times it has been this way. It is our fate.''
 The blast has torn apart Mr. Hussein's family. His brother-in-law, with whom he shared a room, has been missing since the bombing. Mr. Hussein has not been able to bring himself to call his sister, hoping first to find news of her husband, whom she married just two months ago. Since Wednesday, Mr. Hussein has searched 12 hospitals in Baghdad without success. 
 Still, the tiny room they once shared was filled not with outrage but with a quiet acceptance and sadness at the loss. Mr. Hussein laid his brother-in-law's few belongings -- a frayed shirt, flowing cotton pants, and a dishdasha, or traditional gown -- on his cot to show a visitor. 
 ''As Shiites, we say that we Iraqis are all one hand -- Sunnis, Shiites, Kurds and Christians.''
 Still, the unrelenting attacks have deepened the sense of anguish among Shiites, who say the fear of more massacres has seeped into all parts of their lives. Nowhere does that appear more strongly than in Kadhimiya, where black banners bearing the names of some of the dead flutter like flags from building facades, workers are still shoveling piles of rubble from the blast and most windows lack glass. 
 The streets around the Kadhimiya bomb site, though somber, hummed Sunday with quiet repairs. Shop owners stood among piles of rubble and surveyed damage to the sounds of sweeping and hammering. Mussa Awda, one of three brothers who run the hostel, pointed to where plywood had been nailed to replace a roof that had collapsed in the blast. ''We have enough patience,'' Mr. Awda said. ''And thank God for that.''
 In more than a dozen interviews this weekend, the desire to seek revenge never came up. 
 ''If I chose to fight,'' said Dhafer Amer, 23, who works in his father's rug shop not far from where the bomb went off in Kadhimiya, ''it would only make things worse.''
 Still, there are signs that the ageless Shiite tolerance may already be wearing thin. Some Shiites have begun accusing the government -- dominated by Shiite religious parties -- of failing to act decisively enough against those who carry out the attacks.
 ''Our patience shows that we are much stronger than them,'' said Abbas Swadi, who works in a Kadhimiya tea house. ''But we're fighting with our patience.''
 Many Shiites also complained that Sunni Arab leaders have not spoken out forcefully enough against the bombings. Shortly after the attacks on Wednesday, Iraq's most prominent hard-line Sunni clerical group, the Muslim Scholars Association, responded to Mr. Zarqawi's declaration of war with a mild public statement that ''advised'' him to desist. The remark did not go unnoticed in the Shiite neighborhoods that bore the brunt of the pain. 
 ''How dare they say it so weakly,'' said Falah Jiad, an ice cream shop worker in Shula, another Shiite area in Baghdad that was bombed Wednesday. ''It makes us think that they accept Zarqawi's attacks on us.'' 
 Sunnis are also being killed, and clerics have blamed the assassination-style hits on Shiite militias. The clerics never fail to point out their own pain, even in the fact of much greater losses among Shiites. Those losses are generally greater, and some Shiites have expressed frustration that the imbalance is rarely acknowledged.
 The victims are often this city's poorest in a country where unemployment is at least 30 percent. Mr. Swadi, 25, who is from Nasiriya and lost several friends in the blast, supports his wife and children by working several jobs, including in a tea shop for $4.79 a day. He sleeps on the shop floor. Other laborers pay about 60 cents for a night on a cot in hostels like Mr. Awda's.
 Kadhimiya has seen violence before; it was near here that almost 1,000 Shiite pilgrims were killed in a stampede three weeks ago that was set off by fears of a suicide bomber. Even so, the sheer scale of the suffering in Wednesday's attack was staggering.
 Karim al-Azawi was on his way to open his breakfast shop on the morning of the blast. He ran to help people, but found himself collecting parts of bodies -- legs, arms, even a torso -- instead of whole bodies, and stacking them in a pile. Later, when he went to survey the damage from the roof of his building, he found a human back, sheared of bone, lying flat on the dusty concrete.
 A long, dark oily smudge was all that remained Sunday of the horrifying sight.
 But nothing, it seemed, could dampen Shiite resilience. On Sunday evening, crowds of Shiite pilgrims from southern and central Iraq poured into the holy Shiite city of Karbala for the Shiite holiday of Shabaniya, a celebration of the birth of the 12th Shiite imam. 
 In Baghdad, about 60 miles north, Mr. Hussein pondered making the trip. When asked how he would get there, he replied without hesitation, ''By walking on my feet.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Yassir Abed, front, and other Shiites in a damaged restaurant in the Kadhimiya section of Baghdad after attacks in the city on Sept. 14 killed 150. (Photo by Benjamin Lowy/Corbis, for The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 Hamid Nassir, left, and Ali Hussein, who has searched 12 hospitals for his brother-in-law who has been missing since attack on Wednesday. (Photo by Benjamin Lowy/Corbis, for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (76%); RELIGION (76%); CIVIL WAR (72%); TOBACCO STORES (50%) Bombs and Explosives; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Sabrina Tavernise; Robert F Worth; Abu Musab Al- Zarqawi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



442 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: In Petition to Government, Tribe Hopes for Return to Whaling Past

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: NEAH BAY, Wash. 

 BODY:
The whaling canoes are stored in a wooden shed, idle for the past six years. They were last used when the Makah Indians were allowed to take their harpoons and a .50-caliber rifle and set out on their first whale hunt since the late 1920's.
 There were eight young men in a canoe with a red hummingbird, a symbol of speed, painted on the tip. There were motorboats ferrying other hunters, news helicopters, and animal rights activists in speedboats and even a submarine. 
On May 17, 1999, a week into the hunt, the Makah killed a 30-ton gray whale, striking it with harpoons and then killing it with a gunshot to the back of the head. 
 That rainy spring day remains etched in the minds of many Makah as a defining moment in their efforts to reach back to their cultural and historical roots. It was their first kill in seven decades, and it was their last since they were stopped by court rulings. They have asked the federal government for permission to resume hunting, and public meetings on the request are scheduled for October.
 The Makah, a tribe of about 1,500 near the mouth of the Strait of Juan de Fuca on the Olympic Peninsula, see themselves as whalers and continue to identify themselves spiritually with whales.
 ''Everybody felt like it was a part of making history,'' Micah L. McCarty, a tribal council member, said of the 1999 hunt. ''It's inspired a cultural renaissance, so to speak. It inspired a lot of people to learn artwork and become more active in building canoes; the younger generation took a more keen interest in singing and dancing.''
 The Makah, a tribe of mostly fishermen that faces serious poverty and high unemployment, were guaranteed the right to hunt whales in an 1855 treaty with the United States, the only tribe with such a treaty provision. Whaling had been the tribe's mainstay for thousands of years. 
 But the tribe decided to stop hunting whales early in the 20th century, when commercial harvesting had depleted the species. Whale hunting was later strictly regulated nationally and internationally, and the United States listed the Northern Pacific gray whale, the one most available to the Makah, as endangered. 
 The protections helped the whales rebound, and they were taken off the endangered list in 1994. Several years later, the Makah won permission to hunt again, along with a $100,000 federal grant to set up a whaling commission. 
 By the time they were ready, none of the Makah had witnessed a whale hunt or even tasted the meat, hearing only stories passed down through the generations. They learned that the whale was a touchstone of Makah culture -- the tribe's logo today pictures an eagle perched on a whale -- and that the tribe's economy was built around the lucrative trade with Europeans in whale oil, used for heating and lighting, during the 18th and early 19th centuries. 
 For a year before the 1999 hunt, the new Makah whale hunters prepared for their sacramental pursuit, training in canoes on the cold and choppy waters of the Pacific Ocean, praying on the beach in the mornings and at the dock in the evenings. 
 Animal rights groups were preparing, too. When the hunt began, the small reservation and its surrounding waters were teeming with news helicopters and protest groups. On that May afternoon, when the protesters were somewhere off the reservation, the Makah killed their whale. They held a huge celebration on the beach, where 15 men were waiting to butcher the animal, its meat later kippered and stewed. 
 But the protests and the television cameras ''took a lot of the spirituality out of it,'' said Dave Sones, vice chairman of the tribal council. 
 Mr. McCarty said, ''I equate it with interrupting High Mass.''
 The Makah went whale hunting, largely unnoticed, again in 2000, paddling out on a 32-foot cedar whaling canoe, but they did not catch anything. Soon after, animal rights groups, including the Humane Society of the United States, sued to stop the hunting. In 2002, an appeals court declared the hunting illegal, saying the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration had not adequately studied the impact of Makah hunting on the survival of the whale species. 
 Despite the strict national and international regulations on whale hunting, several tribes of Alaska Natives, subsistence whale hunters for centuries, are exempt from provisions of the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act, allowing them to hunt the bowhead whale. That species, unlike the gray whale, is listed as endangered, said Brian Gorman, a spokesman for the oceanic agency. 
 Despite their treaty rights, the Makah were not granted an exemption under the 1972 act. Last February, the tribe asked the agency for a waiver that would grant them permanent rights to kill up to 20 gray whales in any five-year period, which they insist they already have under their 1855 treaty. 
 The Makah's request is ''setting a dangerous precedent,'' said Naomi Rose, a marine mammal scientist for the Humane Society. 
 The Alaska hunting, Ms. Rose said, ''is a true subsistence hunt,'' whereas the Makah, who view whale hunting mostly as ceremonial, are pursuing ''cultural whaling'' that is not essential to their diet. 
 ''There are too many other bad actors out there'' who might try to apply for waivers too, she said. The Makah ''have a treaty right, but we're asking them not to exercise it,'' she said.
 But other environmental groups, including Greenpeace, which is adamantly opposed to the commercial harvesting of whales, have remained neutral on the Makah's quest.
 ''No indigenous hunt has ever destroyed whale populations,'' said John Hocevar, an oceans specialist with Greenpeace. ''And looking at the enormous other threats to whales and putting the Makah whaling in context, it's pretty different.''
 Mr. Gorman, of the federal fisheries agency, said: ''They have a treaty right that the U.S. government signed. It doesn't take an international lawyer to figure out that they do have this treaty.''
 Ben Johnson Jr., the tribal council chairman and a retired fisherman, said the Makah remain baffled ''that we have to jump through so many hoops.'' 
 The tribe plans to display at the local museum the skeleton of the whale killed in 1999, where it will join artifacts, including century-old whale bones, that tell the story of the Makah. 
 Arnie Hunter, vice president of the Makah Whaling Commission, who was on one of the motorboats during the 1999 hunt, was 59 when the tribe killed the whale. He tasted whale meat for the first time and said he liked the pungent flavor. 
 ''My mother said she never thought she'd see a whale hunt in her lifetime,'' he said outside the shed where the canoes are stored. ''And I never thought I'd see a whale hunt in my lifetime. Everybody was joyously crying; we never thought it would happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In 1999, the Makah killed their only whale since the late 1920's. (Photo by Lauren McFalls/Associated Press)
 ''I never thought I'd see a whale hunt in my lifetime,'' said Arnie Hunter, who is vice president of the Makah Whaling Commission. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); WHALING (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (77%); BIRDS (76%); PETITIONS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); HELICOPTERS (56%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Whales and Whaling; Indians, American; Makah Indians; Treaties; Endangered and Extinct Species; Fish and Other Marine Life

PERSON: Sarah Kershaw

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Strait of Juan De Fuca; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



443 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Automobiles; AUTOS ON MONDAY/Technology; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Coming: 95% Recyclable Cars

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
HOUSEHOLDS across the United States are steadily coming to terms with local laws that require trash to be separated and sorted -- glass bottles divided from aluminum cans, plastic milk jugs isolated from newspapers -- before it is all hauled to the curb to await pickup. 
 Most of Europe, though, already embraces (or enforces) recycling with true-believer fervor. So many subcategories have been created for the redirection of castoffs that just a relatively small volume of unusable material finds its way to that final resting place once known as the dump.
No wonder, then, European lawmakers are setting limits on the wastefulness in scrapping automobiles, a process that has typically sent 25 percent of each vehicle, by weight, into an ever-shrinking amount of landfill space. On Jan. 1, the next phase of a vehicle recycling mandate set by the European Union, known as the End-of-Life Vehicles Directive, will take effect. 
 The new regulations will require 85 percent of the car's materials, by weight, to be recovered and reused; the figure includes 5 percent through energy recovery, typically by burning materials that are not economically practical to recycle. 
 In 2007, networks set up by carmakers in the European Union must be ready to accept all scrap vehicles, regardless of age, at no cost to the car's last owner. In 2015, the portion of each vehicle that should be recycled increases to 95 percent.
 Despite the complexity of construction and wide variety of materials in new vehicles, reducing potential waste to just 5 percent can be accomplished without the need for technological breakthroughs. For instance, the 2007 Mercedes-Benz S-Class sedan, which made its debut at the Frankfurt auto show last week, will comply with the 2015 regulation, the company said. The car was designed with recyclability as a goal, with materials selected for ease of processing from the beginning of its development. The new S-Class goes on sale in the United States early next year.
 Though more than 10 million vehicles are scrapped each year in this country, sending about four million tons of waste to landfills, laws based on the principle that producers should be responsible for products at the end of their useful lives are given little chance of winning approval here. The situation is different in Europe and Japan, both of which have limited landfill space and strong public support for environmental reforms. 
 Chris Rogers, head of corporate affairs at Honda Motor Europe, said his company is already making provisions to take back some or all of the 575,000 Hondas expected to be on European roads by 2007. ''We've known about this legislation for a long time,'' he said. ''There are provisions for it in our business plan, and we realize it is part of selling high-quality cars in Europe.''
 It is definitely not a cost of doing business in the United States, where such ''extended producer responsibility'' laws are not on the legislative agenda. ''The U.S. has generally failed to match Europe in making producers responsible for their products, in large part because of its zealous overreliance on voluntary, market-based approaches,'' said Charles Griffith, auto project director for the Ecology Center, an environmental advocacy group based in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 The new recycling laws affect American carmakers nonetheless. General Motors, for instance, sold 200 Hummers, 575 Corvettes and 1,000 Cadillacs in Europe in the first six months of this year. Kathleen Hamilton, a G.M. spokeswoman, said that global design process which created these vehicles took into account the recycling laws. 
 A DaimlerChrysler spokesman, Max Gates, said that legal requirements applying to the American-engineered minivans, Jeeps and Chrysler 300's the company sells in Europe will be met using facilities set up by ''our Mercedes partners.'' 
 The provision in the law that requires companies to take back cars is causing anxiety, even though it does not take effect until 2007. ''We are worried, absolutely,'' said Willy Tomboy, environment officer of Toyota Motor Europe. ''We'll do the utmost to conform to the regulations, but we're concerned about potential future costs.''
 Reid Lifset, associate director of the Industrial Environmental Management Program at Yale and editor of the Journal of Industrial Ecology, said he believes the extended producer responsibility regulations are most effective when companies have a financial incentive to improve the recyclability of their products. ''Many of the existing E.P.R. laws are not being designed that way, and that bothers me,'' he said. 
 As newer cars with components like air bags, seatbelt pretensioners, navigation screens and high-intensity headlights (all of which contain potentially harmful chemicals), begin to enter the waste stream, recycling costs could rise drastically. Jeff Kantor, chairman of the air bag task force of the Automotive Recyclers Association, estimates the cost of dismantling a vehicle with six to eight air bags and a navigation screen at $500. Of course, dismantlers will be able to offset the cost by selling some of these components.
 The Japanese law, parts of which took effect this year, has similarities to its European counterpart. Though it does not include the manufacturer take-back provisions enacted in Europe, it does require carmakers doing business in Japan to increase the recyclability level to 95 percent, from today's 80 percent, by 2015. It also requires companies to collect and recycle air bags, air-conditioning refrigerants and leftovers known as automotive shredder residue. The residue makes up 25 percent vehicle's weight, according to Automotive Industry Trends, a trade newsletter. 
 According to a report by the Development Bank of Japan, high prices for disposing of the shredder residue domestically (and the lack of new disposal facilities) gives companies a significant incentive to recycle the material. Japanese automakers have formed two alliances to recycle as much as 45 percent of the material. 
 Japanese carmakers are also making progress in recycling parts once considered nonrecoverable. Nissan has made structural changes to its cars that make wiring harnesses easier to remove, increasing their recovery rate to 85 percent, from 50 percent, according to a company report. 
 Laws like the European directive are often called ''unfunded mandates'' in legislative circles, effectively raising the question of how they will be paid for. The Japanese statute includes a fund that owners contribute to when they buy a new car or register an older one. The range of fees stretches from about $63 to $164, with the lowest amount for recycling-friendly models. The measure is intended to encourage carmakers to design vehicles more easily recycled at the end of their useful lives.
 Kunihiko Shiohara, an auto analyst at Goldman Sachs based in Japan, said the fees paid by drivers will give automakers a relatively soft landing. ''As some of the cost will be charged to consumers at the time of new vehicle sales,'' he said, ''it will not be entirely borne by automakers, and so should not depress profit margins significantly.'' 
 Mr. Shiohara adds, however, that carmakers are spending heavily to develop advanced recycling technologies, costs not subsidized by the fund. ''As a cost borne entirely by automakers, it will be added to vehicle costs,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Materials in the 2007 Mercedes S-Class were chosen to meet Europe's 2015 recycling rules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE RECYCLING (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); NEW CAR MODELS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (68%); SEDANS (68%); BUSINESS PLANS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (61%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (61%); HMC (NYSE) (61%); 7267 (TSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



444 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: German Election Is Inconclusive; No Majority But 2 Claim Mandate

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, Monday, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
After a bitterly fought campaign that many people in this country had believed only a few days ago would produce a historic vote for change, the German electorate failed Sunday to give any party or candidate a clear majority. 
 Indeed, the vote produced the unusual spectacle in Germany of both main candidates, the incumbent Gerhard Schroder and the challenger Angela Merkel, claiming a mandate to govern as chancellor.
 The results gave the right-of-center Christian Democratic Union, led by Mrs. Merkel, the highest vote total, about 35.2 percent. But even an unexpectedly strong showing by her party's main coalition partner, the pro-business Free Democratic Party, failed to give an absolute majority in Parliament to Mrs. Merkel, who had seemed confidently on her way to becoming the first woman to lead Germany just a few weeks ago. Parliament chooses the chancellor. 
 The Social Democratic Party of Mr. Schroder received 34.3 percent, which means that it has lost the slender majority in Parliament it has long enjoyed with its partner, the Greens, which has enabled Mr. Schroder to govern for seven years. 
 In that sense, the one sure result is that the present governing coalition has been voted out. But it was also clear that Mr. Schroder, written off by the German media as a political has-been in recent weeks, had engineered a masterful maneuver against Mrs. Merkel. [Page A10.] 
 The election concluded a seesaw campaign in which Mrs. Merkel, 51, who embraced American-style economics and closer ties with the United States, lost her momentum in the final days to Mr. Schroder, 61, a veteran politician who has argued that her economic ideas are unfair. 
 The election has been widely seen as a crucial one in Germany, the powerhouse of Europe's economy, because it confronted the German public with some very fundamental choices at a time of deep economic difficulty, no growth, high deficits and record unemployment. In essence, Mrs. Merkel, who has often been likened to Margaret Thatcher, campaigned for deep free-market reforms and reductions in social welfare, while Mr. Schroder campaigned on the notion that his government has already put into place the more modest reforms needed.
 Given the deeply divided vote, the next few days and weeks will almost surely be taken up by intense negotiations among this country's political parties as they seek to forge a coalition that will give one of the candidates the parliamentary majority needed to become chancellor.
 Mrs. Merkel in particular was expected to seek an alliance with her rivals, Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats, creating what has come to be called a ''grand coalition,'' even though Mrs. Merkel spoke out strongly against such a possibility during the campaign.
 ''Red-Green has lost the election,'' Mrs. Merkel said in a statement late Sunday. Red-Green is the shorthand commonly used for the Social Democratic/Green Party coalition that has governed since 1998. ''That's the good news,'' Mrs. Merkel added. 
 ''Now we have to form a government,'' Mrs. Merkel continued, even while admitting, ''We would have wished to achieve a better result.''
 Volker Kauder, the Christian Democratic general secretary, said, ''We will first talk to the F.D.P. and then to all the other parties, except the Linkspartei/P.D.S.,'' referring to a new leftist party that got 8.7 percent of the vote. ''We are looking for all possible options to bring about a solution,'' Mr. Kauder said. 
 Mr. Schroder fired back, ''I don't understand, and I am certain the people in Germany also don't understand, how the conservatives can claim a mandate to lead.'' 
 Mr. Schroder argued that his stronger-than-expected showing indicated that the German public wanted him to stay in power as chancellor, and he ruled out cooperating with the conservatives in any ''grand coalition'' unless he remained chancellor. German law requires that the newly elected Parliament sit within 30 days. Its first order of business will be to elect a parliamentary president, and its second, the chancellor. 
 Normally, the chancellor is the leader of the party that garnered the most votes, but German election results have rarely given any party an absolute majority on its own, and this has led to what has until now been a stable coalition arrangement -- the Social Democrats with the Greens and the Christian Democrats with the Free Democrats.
 But Mrs. Merkel's failure to win an absolute majority with the Free Democrats has introduced an almost unprecedented uncertainty into Germany's political system. At the same time, in ruling out any coalition with the Christian Democrats in which he is not chancellor, Mr. Schroder clearly threw up a major, perhaps insurmountable obstacle to the solution that has been most discussed here recently: a coalition of Christian Democrats and Social Democrats with Mrs. Merkel as chancellor. 
 ''I feel I have a mandate to ensure that in the next four years there will be a stable government in our country under my leadership,'' he said at the Social Democrat headquarters, after Mrs. Merkel spoke at hers.
 ''Those who wanted a change in the chancellory have failed grandiosely,'' Mr. Schroder said.
 But with the combined Green/Social Democrat vote less than 44 percent of the total, it was unclear how Mr. Schroder thought he could get a majority in the Parliament. 
 One possibility was that Mr. Schroder would attempt to lure the Free Democrats, who got a surprisingly high 9.8 percent of the vote, to drop their alliance with the Christian Democrats and join with the Social-Democrats and the Greens. 
 This would have the effect of keeping Mr. Schroder in power, but it would bring into the same government an extremely unlikely ideological combination of Germany's most free-market, antitax party, the Free Democrats, with the traditional leftists of the Social Democrats..
 Guido Westerwelle, the Free Democrat chairman, indicated in a statement on Sunday night that his party would not agree to a coalition with Mr. Schroder. 
 Another possibility is that the new Linkspartei, an odd combination of defectors from the Social Democrats and former East German Communists, would join forces with Mr. Schroder and the Greens, but Mr. Schroder emphatically ruled out that idea during the campaign and in his statement on Sunday he said he was willing to talk to all parties, except the Linkspartei. 
 ''Schroder is playing a real tough power game now,'' said Claus Leggewie, a political scientist at Giessen University. ''His argument is, '''I have a won a plebiscite of the German people,' but it's unreal because he has no majority.'' 
 Still, if the options for Mr. Schroder all seemed fraught with potential difficulty, those for Mrs. Merkel seemed equally tough. Only a few weeks ago, as the election campaign accelerated, polls showed Mrs. Merkel almost a sure winner, in combination with the Free Democrats, so much so that she was treated in the German press almost as if she had already become Germany's first woman chancellor.
 Mrs. Merkel seemed to have every advantage given Germany's actual situation -- especially an unemployment rate of more than 11 percent that Mr. Schroder, despite many promises, had conspicuously failed to reduce. This failure was the reason for several embarrassing losses in state elections during the fall for the Social Democrats. Indeed it was one such loss, in North Rhine Westphalia in the spring, that led Mr. Schroder to call for early elections, a gesture that at the time was widely interpreted as a way for Mr. Schroder to engineer an early departure from German politics.
 But Mrs. Merkel, who campaigned on what she called the need for a thoroughgoing reform to revitalize the German economy, led what many analysts, and, apparently, the German public, felt to be a weak, unfocused and even self-contradictory campaign. Mr. Schroder, meanwhile, made speech after speech hammering at the point that Mrs. Merkel's proposed reforms would mean new inequality in Germany, as well as an end to Germany's traditional social welfare system.
 ''In my perspective, the majority of the German population is still not ready to accept a real hard reform course,'' said Uwe Andersen , a political scientist at Ruhr University in Bochum. 
 ''And therefore the only possibility now is a grand coalition, C.D.U. and S.P.D., but it will be a very difficult situation, because I think they will have great difficulty to get a government project that is stable and that is able to answer the questions that are coming up about the future of the country,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Supporters of Angela Merkel, the leader of the Christian Democratic Union, at party headquarters in Berlin. (Photo by Hermann Bredehorst/Polaris)
 Angela Merkel in Berlin, after voter surveys suggested she was the top vote-getter but had not won enough votes to form a governing coalition. (Photo by Michael Urban/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%) Elections; Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (83%); FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (91%); GERHARD SCHRODER (79%) Richard Bernstein; Gerhard (Chancellor) Schroder; Angela Merkel

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPE (79%) Germany; Germany

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



445 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Good Grief

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The president is Lucy, and he's holding a football. We're Charlie Brown.
 In an eerily lit, nationally televised appearance outside the historic St. Louis Cathedral in New Orleans, President Bush promised the world to the Gulf Coast residents whose lives were upended by Hurricane Katrina. 
He seemed to be saying that no effort, no amount of money, would be spared. Two hundred billion dollars? No problem. This will be bigger than the Marshall Plan. The end of the rainbow is here.
 ''Throughout the area hit by the hurricane,'' said Mr. Bush, ''we will do what it takes, we will stay as long as it takes to help citizens rebuild their communities and their lives.''
 The country has put its faith in Mr. Bush many times before, and come up empty. It may be cynical, but my guess is that if we believe him again this time, we're going to end up on our collective keisters, just like Charlie Brown, who could never stop himself from kicking mightily at empty space, which was all that was left each time Lucy snatched the ball away.
 In March 2003, in another nationally televised address, the president told us we had no choice but to go to war with Iraq because Saddam Hussein was sitting on ''some of the most lethal weapons ever devised.'' So we went to war, even though Saddam had not attacked us, and now -- two years and $200 billion later -- we're stuck there. Close to a couple of thousand brave men and women have come back in coffins (no pictures, please) and thousands more have been maimed.
 The weapons? As Emily Litella would have said, ''Never mind.''
 In the same lavish way that Mr. Bush is promising to rebuild New Orleans and the rest of the storm-damaged Gulf Coast, he assured us and the rest of the world that the invasion he was ordering would lead to the rebuilding of Iraq and its devastated economy. ''Freed from the weight of oppression,'' he said, ''Iraq's people will be able to share in the progress and prosperity of our time.''
 But last Thursday, the very same day that he delivered his speech in New Orleans, the World Bank released a report showing that the continued violence in Iraq had frightened away private investors, slowed reconstruction and disrupted oil production.
 The Times reported yesterday that even in Najaf, an Iraqi city often cited by the U.S. as a success story, American officials have acknowledged that reconstruction projects ''are hobbled by poor planning, corrupt contractors and a lack of continuity among the rotating coalition officers.'' 
 Polls have shown that over the past two years Americans have lost a great deal of faith in Mr. Bush, who tends to talk a good game but doesn't seem to know how to deliver. Thursday night's speech was designed to halt that slide. 
 But Mr. Bush's new post-Katrina persona defies belief. The same man who was unforgivably slow to respond to the gruesome and often fatal suffering of his fellow Americans now suddenly emerges from the larva of his ineptitude to present himself as -- well, nothing short of enlightened.
 Not only was he proposing a Gulf Coast Marshall Plan, but he was declaring, in words that made his conservative followers gasp, that poverty in the U.S. ''has roots in a history of racial discrimination which cut off generations from the opportunity of America.''
 If you were listening to the radio, you might have thought you were hearing the ghost of Lyndon Johnson. ''We have a duty to confront this poverty with bold action,'' said Mr. Bush.
 He was being Lucy again, enticing us with the football. But before we commence kicking the air, consider the facts.
 This president has had zero interest in attacking poverty, and the result has been an increase in poverty in the U.S., the richest country in the world, in each of the last four years. Instead of attacking poverty, the Bush administration has attacked the safety net and has stubbornly refused to stop the decline in the value of the minimum wage on his watch.
 You can believe that he's suddenly worried about poor people if you want to. What is more likely is that his reference to racism and poverty was just another opportunistic Karl Rove moment, never to be acted upon.
 Charlie Brown's sister, Sally, once asked how often someone could be fooled with the same trick. She answered her own question: ''Pretty often, huh?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); WEATHER (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) New Orleans (La); United States; Louisiana; Mississippi; Alabama; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



446 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Allies Press U.N. Nuclear Agency to Criticize Iran

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY; Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

 BODY:
The United States and its allies said yesterday that they would push for a resolution critical of Iran from the United Nations nuclear monitoring agency, although the body might not refer the country to the Security Council for sanctions.
 The action came a day after President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran stood before the General Assembly, vowing to press ahead with a nuclear program and berating the United States and Europe for trying to interfere. Western diplomatic officials said the address had essentially played into their hands, making the monitoring body, the International Atomic Energy Agency, more likely to approve a strong resolution at its meeting, which begins today.
''The effect of the speech will be the increased isolation of Iran, as it was seen internationally and at the U.N. as exceptionally harsh and uncompromising,'' R. Nicholas Burns, under secretary of state for political affairs, said in an interview yesterday. 
 But American and European officials acknowledged that even after Mr. Ahmadinejad's speech they still might not have the votes for an immediate Security Council referral, which was their original aim, and might settle for a resolution that declared Iran's nuclear program to be out of compliance with agency rules. That resolution would have no binding effect, but could strengthen a later resolution in the Security Council.
 In his speech on Saturday, Mr. Ahmadinejad insisted that Iran would not give up its ''right to pursue peaceful nuclear energy'' and accused the United States and its allies of ''apartheid.'' He offered only one compromise proposal, under which Iran would pursue uranium enrichment in concert with other countries.
 But that idea had been rejected previously. After the speech, Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy of France said, ''We don't see what the association with a third country to the Iranian program would contribute to ensure confidence.''
 After he arrived home in Tehran yesterday, Mr. Ahmadinejad reiterated his stance. Speaking to reporters there, Reuters reported, he said he thought his trip to New York had been a success, adding that ''we think we have opened the way for a good outcome with'' the atomic energy agency, ''so now anyone who wants to make trouble will just be using excuses as a pretext for doing so.''
 European officials began work on a draft resolution yesterday. But some of the diplomats acknowledged that they did not know whether the speech had changed the minds of many countries that had opposed referral to the Security Council, or simply hardened the views of those already in favor. As a result, the exact wording of the resolution is not likely to be completed until late next week, the officials said, when they can judge the mood of the atomic agency's governing board.
 A senior Bush administration official did say he and others had spoken to some of the opponents ''and we're hearing increased concern.'' He declined to be identified by name because of government rules preventing it.
 Foreign Secretary Jack Straw of Britain called Mr. Ahmadinejad's speech ''disappointing and unhelpful.'' Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister, said it was ''anything but helpful.''
 But President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who has been opposed to Security Council action against Iran, said in an interview with Fox News yesterday that he had not changed his mind. ''We are all against the proliferation of nuclear weapons,'' Mr. Putin said. ''The Iranian side wants to continue with negotiations, and we are going to proceed from there.'' 
 A European diplomat involved in the negotiations said the European allies did not want to pass a resolution opposed by Russia, which holds a veto on the Security Council.
 ''It's not a question of how many votes we get,'' the diplomat said. ''It's a question of who is going to vote.'' The diplomat was in effect saying there would not be a consensus resolution, which is customary on the atomic energy agency board. But what is important now, the official added, is that ''this must not result in a split between Europe on one side'' and Russia and other nonaligned countries on the other. 
 For several weeks, the United States and its European allies have been pushing the 35 members of the atomic energy agency to support referring Iran to the Security Council. Last month, Iran began reprocessing uranium in defiance of the United Nations, and Western officials maintained that the country had been secretly working on a nuclear weapons program. 
 But at the end of last week, officials acknowledged that they did not have the votes for anything more than a slim majority at the atomic energy agency. Such a vote would leave them in a weak position within the Security Council, where China also holds a veto.
 ''Ultimately there is going to be a referral to the Security Council,'' Mr. Burns said in an interview yesterday with BBC News. He had just come from a meeting with his French, German and English counterparts, where they discussed Iran. ''Whether it's this week, next week or next month,'' he said, is simply a matter ''of tactics.''
 The senior Bush administration official said yesterday, ''This is not likely to be a one-day debate.''
 The official added: ''A diverse group of countries saw this as a negative speech. But this debate is just one of a series of debates that is going to take place.''
 Despite the view that increasing criticism may change minds at the atomic energy agency, several members of the body have said they see the Iranian government as too new for an immediate referral to the Security Council. Under that view, the buildup of criticism may push Mr. Ahmadinejad, who took office in August, to moderate his position -- and if he does not, his refusal may change some votes at the agency. 
 ''The key question now,'' the senior administration official said, ''is whether or not Iran will adjust to this wave of criticism.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Iranians in Tehran greeted President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad yesterday upon his return from New York. (Photo by Atta Kenare/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); APPROVALS (73%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%) United Nations; International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%) Joel Brinkley; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); IRAN (92%); FRANCE (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



447 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Taking Full Responsibility

 BODY:
President Bush didn't say the other night how he would pay for his promise to rebuild the Gulf Coast states. Allow us to explain: Every penny of aid approved by Congress so far and all subsequent aid -- perhaps as much as $200 billion -- will be borrowed, with most of it likely to come from Asian central banks and other foreign investors. That means additional interest of about $10 billion a year indefinitely. The bill will hit current and future taxpayers in the form of higher taxes or cuts in government programs, or both.
 Don't get us wrong. In the main, it makes sense to borrow for huge, vital and unexpected projects (World War II comes to mind). Such borrowing spreads the immense costs over generations, all of which presumably benefit from the extraordinary spending. 
The problem is that the United States was deep in hock before Katrina -- and for many of the wrong reasons. Unless Congress changes the pre-Katrina priorities laid down by Mr. Bush, necessary borrowing for Katrina will occur on top of unjustified borrowing. The resulting deficits could create deep economic distress, including higher interest rates, slower economic growth, future tax increases and constraints on the government's ability to be responsive, both to crises and to everyday needs, like health care. Growing deficits also pose a security threat because increasing foreign indebtedness risks eroding the nation's position in the world.
 Cutting taxes for the rich is the most glaring of the wrongheaded reasons to pile debt upon debt. Since 2001, Congress has passed tax and spending legislation totaling $1.7 trillion. Of that total, tax cuts for people who make more than $200,000 a year, the top 3 percent of the income ladder, have accounted for nearly 20 percent -- or about $330 billion. 
 High-end tax cuts were not a wise policy during the shallow recession of Mr. Bush's first term and they're certainly not called for now. Unpaid-for tax cuts only cause more government borrowing. That takes money from government programs and taxpayers of tomorrow and gives it to the rich of today.
 So far, the signs are not good for how Congress will respond to Mr. Bush's promise to spend ''unprecedented'' amounts for Katrina. Last week, Republican leaders pledged to push ahead with more deficit-inducing tax cuts for the wealthy -- costing up to $70 billion over five years. Their most cherished is an extension for two years of temporary low rates for dividends and capital gains, scheduled to expire in 2008. About half of those cuts would flow to people making more than $1 million a year.
 At the same time, key lawmakers are already balking at borrowing for Katrina. ''We must not let Katrina break the bank for our children and grandchildren,'' said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, in a typical comment. 
 They have it exactly backward. The tax-cutting agenda is breaking the bank for our descendants, while impairing our ability to borrow responsibly today. Every dollar that is saved by letting the tax cuts expire as scheduled is one less dollar the nation will need to borrow for Katrina. 
 A day after his speech from New Orleans, Mr. Bush ruled out tax increases to help pay for Katrina. That's unrealistic. And in any event, letting temporary tax cuts expire on schedule is not a tax increase. It's the law of the land, which Congress wants to change. Now that Mr. Bush has ruled out new tax increases, he should also tell Congress to rule out new tax cuts for the rich. Taking responsibility for the response to Katrina means taking fiscal responsibility as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEATHER (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); HURRICANES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); WORLD WAR II (54%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Editorials; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States; New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Mississippi; Alabama

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



448 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: A Fashion Site Brings Back The Do-It-All Web Portal 

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
WHEN some of Silicon Valley's best minds pool their collective intelligence and millions of dollars to create a Web site for people who want to read about and buy everything in Lindsay Lohan's closet, you know the Internet industry is ready to party again.
 Glam.com, a fashion site scheduled to make its debut today after nearly two years in development, is of a genre not heard from since the heady days of the dot-com bubble: a so-called vertical portal offering articles, user-to-user dialogue and merchandise, all within the confines of a narrow topic.
And the topic is fashion, of all things -- a choice that at first glance seems ill-suited to attract Internet consumers whose main obsession is knocking $10 off an airline ticket, and equally unlikely to tempt the millions of women who remain perfectly happy thumbing through their Vogue and InStyle magazines.
 But analysts and executives said Glam.com stood a fighting chance, partly because no one had been willing to jump on this particular grenade for years, and because this time around the grenade might not actually explode. 
 ''I think it's a very good time for this,'' said Heather Dougherty, an analyst with Nielsen/NetRatings, an Internet consulting firm. ''The advertising market is obviously far stronger than a few years ago, and Glam is going after a lot of luxury brands that hadn't yet come online then, and who still might be hesitant about it, and offering them a very controlled environment to test the waters.''
 In essence, Glam.com is an online fashion magazine in which every item can be purchased via a couple of clicks. Products range from $16 Benefit lipstick to $1,500 Jimmy Choo handbags arrayed across several categories, including trends, celebrity styles and noteworthy products. The editorial team is headed by Carl Portale, previously a publisher of Elle magazine, and includes a stable of former fashion magazine editors and contributors.
 The site provides a Shops section for those who require no inspiration before clicking off to selected offerings from, say, Bergdorf Goodman or Neiman Marcus. It also serves up interactive tests on subjects like what to wear to a formal party or how to dress to project a sexy look.
 Such tests are a staple of fashion magazines, but they are also a focal point in the career of the Glam Media chairman and co-founder, Samir Arora, the former chairman of Tickle, a social networking and quiz site that has achieved considerable popularity in recent years.
 While the site has a lot of editorial content -- enough to fill 1,400 pages of a magazine -- it is the quizzes that Mr. Arora sees as playing a critical role in generating return visits. A user's responses are stored and analyzed, he said, so that ''as the system grows, you'll learn more about yourself, and we use that to do more style matches for you.''
 Users may also share their style matches and quiz results on the site with friends or strangers with similar fashion preferences. ''So this isn't just like InStyle magazine, it's InStyle built to you,'' Mr. Arora said.
 Upscale fashion advertisers and retailers, many of whom have engaged in few Internet initiatives until now, said they liked Glam's editorial approach because it helped them retain the blush of exclusivity while also allowing customers easy access to their products.
 ''It's indirect selling. That's a big part of it,'' said Stacy Lastrina, senior vice president of marketing and creative services for Jones Apparel Group, which includes Nine West, Ann Klein and other brands. ''We have to be very careful where we put our brands, and they've done a great job of understanding that.''
 While advertisers laud the site's editorial approach, they also give it high marks for solving a nagging technology problem: how to let users buy items easily. Web sites related to fashion magazines, like shopvogue.com from Advance Media and ShopEtc.com from Hearst, have over the last year offered links to goods advertised in their magazines, but users are often left off at the home page of an advertiser's store rather than being linked directly to the item, and without knowing whether the item is in stock.
 Glam has plugged into the back-office systems of its roughly 70 affiliated retailers, which include upscale boutiques like Kirna Zabete, so buyers can see with one click whether the item is in stock. If it is, they are taken directly to the merchant's checkout page for that item.
 Glam takes a commission of 12 percent to 24 percent on every purchase made on the site, Mr. Arora said, and advertising rates are ''very premium, given our target audience.'' Mr. Arora, who raised $11 million in funding from venture capital firms like Accel Partners and Draper Fisher Jurvetson, said it was too early to say how much revenue would come from either source.
 But Glam will not have a lot of competition, at least at first. Fashion magazines could set up shop in the Internet, too, said Charlene Li, an analyst with the technology consulting firm Forrester Research, but ''they're terrified of losing subscription revenue, and it's a hugely different approach from their regular print efforts, so it'd be a lot of work.''
 For the time being, then, Glam should have a fair amount of running room to test out its concept. And retailers who have joined the initiative have high hopes. Sarah Easley, co-owner of Kirna Zabete, said she had turned away many other Internet companies who wanted to feature her store's items, ''because they weren't designer-driven enough. But we have a good feeling about this, so we're going to roll the dice.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Samir Arora, chief executive of Glam Media, at the Kirna Zabete store in Manhattan, one of the site's advertising partners. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEB SITES & PORTALS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); VERTICAL MARKETS (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (75%); TRENDS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%) Apparel; Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: Glam Media

PERSON: LINDSAY LOHAN (72%) Bob Tedeschi; Samir Arora

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



449 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE EX-PRESIDENT; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Levels Sharp Criticism At the President's Relief Effort

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Former President Bill Clinton, asked by President Bush to help raise money for the victims of Hurricane Katrina, offered harsh criticism of the administration's disaster-relief effort on Sunday, saying ''you can't have an emergency plan that works if it only affects middle-class people up.''
 Mr. Clinton's comments in an interview on the ABC News program ''This Week'' could prove awkward for the White House, given President Bush's eagerness to involve his Democratic predecessor in a high-profile role to raise money for the hurricane's victims. His remarks came days after the president gave a televised speech from New Orleans, trying to seize the momentum amid other attacks on the administration's performance. 
The White House has been under siege from critics, assailed first for the effectiveness of its response to the storm, and challenged more recently by questions about the long-term fiscal implications of its plans for rebuilding in the Gulf states.
 Mr. Clinton argued that lower-income Americans had done better under the economic policies of his administration than they are doing now, saying the storm highlighted class divisions in the country that often played out along racial lines.
 ''It's like when they issued the evacuation order,'' he said. ''That affects poor people differently. A lot of them in New Orleans didn't have cars. A lot of them who had cars had kinfolk they had to take care of. They didn't have cars, so they couldn't take them out.''
 ''This is a matter of public policy,'' he said. ''And whether it's race-based or not, if you give your tax cuts to the rich and hope everything works out all right, and poverty goes up and it disproportionately affects black and brown people, that's a consequence of the action made. That's what they did in the 80's; that's what they've done in this decade. In the middle, we had a different policy.'' 
 The White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, did not respond directly to Mr. Clinton's remarks about the hurricane-relief effort or mention the former president by name. But in a statement on Sunday, Mr. McClellan suggested it was unfair to link the plight of low-income victims of the hurricane to the economic policies of the Bush administration. 
 ''There is a deep history of injustice that has led to poverty and inequality, and it will not be overcome instantly,'' he said, adding that President Bush ''from Day 1 has been acting boldly to achieve real results for all Americans.'' 
 He added, ''Do we think in new and bold ways by focusing on innovative programs that work for all Americans, or do we embrace failed policies of the past which have resulted in too many being left behind?''
 Throughout Mr. Bush's presidency, Mr. Clinton has often been critical of his successor, and he repeated many of those criticisms in the Sunday interview in discussing the invasion of Iraq, the growing federal deficit and other issues. But it was the directness of his criticism of President Bush's policies related to domestic disaster relief that appeared most likely to cause aggravation at the White House. 
 Noting statistics that showed a significant drop in poverty during his presidency, Mr. Clinton said, ''You can't have an emergency plan that works if it only affects middle-class people up, and when you tell people to go do something they don't have the means to do, you're going to leave the poor out.''
 Mr. Clinton has reunited with President Bush's father, former President George H.W. Bush, in a fund-raising campaign for Katrina victims, much as they worked together to raise millions of dollars for relief efforts after the Asian tsunami last year. Mr. Clinton said the two had raised $90 million to $100 million so far for hurricane victims.
 Mr. Clinton drew a sharp distinction between the performance of the government's disaster-relief agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, in his administration and today. ''I think we did a good job of disaster management,'' he said. 
 While not using the name of Michael D. Brown, the FEMA director who resigned last Monday after criticism of his performance in the Katrina disaster, Mr. Clinton praised the performance of his FEMA director, James Lee Witt, and said Mr. Witt had been especially sensitive to the needs of low-income people because ''both of us came out of environments with a disproportionate number of poor people.''
 Mr. Clinton said he was especially disturbed that many of the people who lost homes in the hurricane had no property insurance.
 ''Everything they owned was in their little home,'' he said. ''And if we really wanted to do it right, we would have had lots of buses lined up to take them out and also lots of empty vans'' to save the belongings of those with no home or flood insurance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); DISASTER RELIEF (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); RACE & RACISM (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); TAX LAW (62%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Taxation; Blacks; Minorities (US)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%) Federal Emergency Management Agency

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Bill Clinton; George W (Pres) Bush; Philip Shenon; James Lee Witt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005



450 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA: ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Financially Illiterate? A Nonprofit Foundation Wants to Help 

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere

 BODY:
A NONPROFIT group dedicated to financial literacy says it thinks many Americans could manage their personal finances better, and it plans to introduce an advertising campaign this week to give them some ideas.
 ''We have an economy, a society, where people are encouraged to buy today, even if they don't have the funds for it,'' said William L. Anthes, the president and chief executive of the group, the National Endowment for Financial Education, based in Greenwood Village, Colo. ''People aren't owning up to the personal responsibilities they should to take care of themselves and their future. The three-legged stool -- Social Security, private pensions and savings -- is broken.'' 
One sign of the declining stability of personal finances, Mr. Anthes said, is a report from the Bureau of Economic Analysis last month that the rate of personal saving as a percentage of disposable personal income fell to zero in June, from 0.4 percent in May. It was greater than 3 percent in the third quarter of 2001. In addition, according to a survey released in April by the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a nonprofit research group, most workers said they were behind schedule in saving for retirement, while only 42 percent said they had tried to figure out how much money they would need in retirement. 
 The College for Financial Planning, which educates professional financial planners, established the National Endowment for Financial Education in 1992. In 1997, when the college was sold to the Apollo Group, the foundation began to focus on educating consumers full time. Today, it works with almost 100 national nonprofit groups -- like the American Cancer Society, AARP and the Boy Scouts of America -- to develop financial literacy programs for young adults, single parents, the disabled and others with special needs. It has an endowment of $135 million.
 According to Mr. Anthes, the new ad campaign is aimed at Americans 35 to 55, with incomes of $35,000 to $100,000. ''We felt an awful lot of low-income individuals are well served by programs targeted to them, run by organizations like the National Urban League and National Council of La Raza,'' which aids Hispanics, he said. 
 ''People with over $100,000 in income already have an established relationship with a C.P.A., financial planner or investment adviser,'' Mr. Anthes said. ''We felt the middle group was most in need of receiving the personal-responsibility message.''
 Created by Benenson Janson, a Studio City, Calif., agency that specializes in marketing for specific causes, the foundation's campaign, which starts tomorrow, will use television, radio, magazines and the Internet to deliver its message.
 The ads feature different people at various stages in their lives, asking specific questions about their personal finances.
 For example, one ad depicts a young couple playing in a bedroom with their two children. The parents ask, ''Is a great college for our kids out of the question?'' Another ad shows a businessman in his shirtsleeves, standing in his office, asking, ''Does retirement have to wait till my 70's?''
 The answer to these questions, according to the ad: ''Not if we can help it. We have some solutions that might be easier than you think. We're the National Endowment for Financial Education, a nonprofit foundation with nothing to sell and a lot to tell. For everything from getting out of debt to managing your money wisely to saving for the future -- we're here to help.''
 Ads carry the tagline, ''It's time to get smart about your money,'' and direct the audience to a new foundation Web site, smartaboutmoney.org., which offers a financial assessment quiz as well as a resource center with literature and other tools.
 Howard Benenson, co-chairman and chief executive of Benenson Janson, said: ''We picked out situations most often faced by the people we want to reach. The younger members are considering how to finance their first home and pay for their children's college education, while others ask how to save money for retirement. It's all about helping Americans get the knowledge necessary to take control of their financial future and act upon it once they learn about it.''
 Mr. Anthes added, ''Our ultimate purpose is to get people to act in some ways they have not done up to this point in time.''
 The campaign's $2 million budget will be spent exclusively on Time Warner media, including five magazines, Parenting, People, Real Simple, Time and Sports Illustrated; CNN and CNN Headline News; and AOL Personal Finance and AOL Business News.
 Marla K. Goldstein, vice president for media services at Benenson Janson, said Time Warner gave the foundation discounts as high as 50 percent on media, plus performance guarantees on TV advertising, which she called unusual for a purchase of this size.
 The campaign will also be distributed to television and radio stations nationwide to run as public service advertising.
 Although financial literacy specialists praised the foundation's intentions, many questioned the campaign's potential effectiveness.
 Lewis Mandell, a professor of finance and managerial economics at the school of management of the University at Buffalo, asked whether ''just creating awareness and bringing people to a Web site is going to get very many people to modify their behavior in a significant manner. It just isn't easy for us to change our basic behavior patterns.''
 George G. Daly, the new dean of the McDonough School of Business at Georgetown University and former president of the Investor Education Entity, created several years ago by the Securities and Exchange Commission with proceeds from its settlement with 10 investment banks accused of providing misleading research to investors, said he would be ''surprised if the campaign had any meaningful outcome.''
 ''They're competing with every enterprise in the world trying to tell people how to manage their money -- investment management concerns, banks, mutual funds; these spend far more in a single day than N.E.F.E. is going to spend on its campaign.''
 ''The people most in need of this help don't read Time Warner publications dealing with finance or watch news programs,'' he added.
 Sharon A. Burns, executive director of the Association for Financial Counseling and Planning Education, in Upper Arlington, Ohio, was more sanguine.
 She predicted the campaign ''will hit home with people; that there is good, independent help available. It will build awareness.''
 She also praised the positive tone of the ads, which she said should ''increase people's confidence in being able to manage their own money.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: National Endowment for Financial Education ads feature people at various stages in their lives, asking questions about their finances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SAVINGS RATES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CANCER (66%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) Personal Finances; Advertising and Marketing; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Savings; Personal Finances

COMPANY: APOLLO GROUP INC (57%); COLLEGE FOR FINANCIAL PLANNING INSTITUTES CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (82%) National Endowment for Financial Education; Bureau of Economic Analysis; Employee Benefit Research Institute; Benenson Janson; Time Warner Inc

TICKER: APOL (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (57%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (57%)

PERSON: William L Anthes; Jane L Levere

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



451 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 945 words

 BODY:

OPEC Is Set to Raise Limit on Extra Oil Output But Prices Surge as Hurricane Threatens Gulf
OPEC delegates said that the group planned to allow its members to provide up to 2 million barrels a day of extra crude oil ''if the market needs it.'' But oil traders brushed aside the move and instead sent oil prices higher today on worries of another possible hurricane. [Page C1.]

Norsk Hydro, a Norwegian energy and aluminum group, said it had agreed to buy the Spinnaker Exploration Company of Houston for $2.45 billion to expand oil and gas output and add potential for new discoveries. [C4.]

For five years, the managers of Russia's richest oil fields in western Siberia increased output by 14 percent annually, overcoming decades of Soviet neglect by repairing leaks, replacing pumps and charting better geological maps. But then it stopped. In the year since the main production unit of the Yukos oil company was effectively nationalized in December 2004, it will ship the same amount of crude oil, 385 million barrels, that it did in 2004. Russia's potential as an energy exporter was a theme that President Vladimir V. Putin raised during his joint news conference with President Bush last Friday. [C4.]

Tyco Executives Sentenced to Up to 25 Years in Prison
L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former chief executive of Tyco International who was convicted of looting the company of $150 million, was sentenced to 8 1/3 to 25 years in a New York state prison, the latest symbol of corporate corruption to be handed a lengthy prison term. Mark H. Swartz, his chief lieutenant, received the same sentence for his role in the thefts and fraud. [A1.]

Music Industry Discussing Online File Sharing
At least five online file-sharing companies have started trying to reach an accord with the music industry to convert the free trading of copyrighted music on their networks to paid services, according to several recording industry and file-sharing executives. The most advanced discussions are between the recording industry and Grokster, recording industry executives said. [C1.]

A Rebounding Corning Stresses Product Diversity
When James R. Houghton came out of retirement to try and rescue Corning, the 154-year-old maker of glass products, he found a company nearly ruined by its failure to diversify much beyond fiber optics. Today the company is is spreading its research dollars over a wider array of products. [C1.]

The Struggles of a Home-Grown New Orleans Bank
In the period that some simply call ''before,'' employees working at the Liberty Bank and Trust Company headquarters in New Orleans sat at brand new workstations in a building they had occupied only this past spring. Liberty, one of the country's largest black-owned banks, has long been a gleaming New Orleans business success story, a homegrown institution in a predominantly African-American city. Now, the head office is a cramped branch in a homely brick building with a corner of its corrugated tin roof missing. [C1.]

Luxury goods makers are concerned about Hurricane Katrina's effect on the annual one-month alligator hunt in Louisiana, which provides about 35,000 animal skins for handbags, shoes, belts and other products. [C1.]

Researcher Challenges Safety of Vioxx at Liability Trial
Merck & Company's painkiller Vioxx may cause heart attacks with just one dose, a University of Michigan researcher said at the second product-liability trial over the drug, challenging the company's assertion that only long-term users are at risk. [C13.]

Nike Posts 32 Percent Profit Increase as Sales Surge
Nike, the world's biggest maker of athletic shoes, said that first-quarter profit rose 32 percent, helped by sales of new lines of Shox running shoes and by lower marketing costs. Net income increased to $432.3 million, or $1.61 a share, from $326.8 million, or $1.21 a share, a year earlier. Revenue climbed 8.4 percent, to $3.86 billion, Nike said. Sales of the $100 Shox Cog running shoes helped lift revenue 8 percent in the United States and 13 percent in Asia. Worldwide orders rose 11 percent, exceeding analysts' estimates. Marketing and other expenses fell to 28.6 percent of sales from a year earlier, when Nike had increased spending for the Summer Olympics. [C7.]

Stocks Fall as Hurricane Fears Propel Oil Prices
Stocks fell amid fears that another hurricane would hit the Gulf Coast sent oil prices racing past $67 a barrel and investors grew concerned about the Federal Reserve's interest-rate meeting. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 84.31 points, to 10,557.63. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.89 points, to 1,231.02. The Nasdaq composite index sank 15.09, to 2,145.26. [C8.]

Europe's Antitrust Agency Looks Again at Microsoft
Almost 18 months after the European Commission ruled that Microsoft had abused its dominance in the software market, Europe's antitrust authority is considering opening new cases against the company, Neelie Kroes, the competition commissioner, said. [C5.]

Wal-Mart Loses Decision Over Closed Store in Canada
Quebec's labor relations board has rejected Wal-Mart Canada's claim that it closed a unionized store in that province for economic reasons, saying instead that there was evidence the store might reopen. [C7.]

An Ad Campaign to Promote Financial Literacy
A nonprofit group dedicated to financial literacy says it thinks many Americans could manage their personal finances better, and it plans to introduce an advertising campaign this week to give them some ideas. Advertising [C6.]

New Publisher to Replace Murdoch at New York Post
The News Corporation named Paul Carlucci as publisher of The New York Post, succeeding the corporation's chairman, Rupert Murdoch. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Nike since July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CARTELS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (88%); SENTENCING (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (79%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (76%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); LITIGATION (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); GLASS PRODUCTS MFG (68%); CORRUPTION (64%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (56%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SPINNAKER EXPLORATION CO (71%); OAO NK YUKOS (69%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (55%); LIBERTY BANK & TRUST OF OKLAHAOMA CITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (71%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (71%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (71%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



452 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Intimate Snapshots Of the War Called Hell

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

The March
By E.L. Doctorow
363 pages. Random House.
$25.95.
 ''War is hell,'' William Tecumseh Sherman famously observed. 
 Sherman was in a position to know. An unforgiving advocate of ''total war,'' he marched his Union Army through the heart of Georgia, torched Atlanta, then turned southeast to the sea, cutting a path of destruction hundreds of miles long. He reached Savannah by December 1864, presenting the city as a ''Christmas gift'' to President Lincoln, then headed north toward the Carolinas. In the course of his march through Dixie, his troops burned and pillaged and looted, destroying railroads, warehouses, factories, plantations and private homes -- in an effort to destroy the Southern economy and break the will of the Confederacy.
''War is cruelty,'' Sherman asserted. ''There's no use trying to reform it. The crueler it is, the sooner it will be over.''
 In his arresting new novel ''The March,'' E.L. Doctorow mixes fact and fiction, real characters and made-up ones, to give the reader a bloody, tactile portrait of Sherman's infamous march and a visceral understanding of the horrors of war. Although the novel is less inventive, less innovative than his 1975 classic ''Ragtime,'' it showcases the author's bravura storytelling talents and instinctive ability to empathize with his characters, while eschewing the self-conscious pyrotechnics and pretentious abstractions that have hobbled his recent books like ''City of God.''
 Some of the wide-angled views of war presented in ''The March'' will be familiar to fans of ''Gone With the Wind'': Southern families loading up carts with their most treasured possessions, as they flee the approaching Union Army; dozens upon dozens of dying and wounded soldiers awaiting treatment in hastily improvised field hospitals; flames devouring the cities of the South, as giddy soldiers and shell-shocked residents look on.
 ''You could go for miles without seeing an end to the procession of troops and horses and wagons,'' Mr. Doctorow writes of Sherman's armies. ''An eagle aloft in the April winds high over the landscape would only see something iridescently blue and side-winding that looked like the floodplain of a river.'' 
 Such panoramic vistas, however, are the exception in this novel, which is dedicated to giving the reader a series of intimate snapshots of the war. By cutting back and forth between various characters' stories, Mr. Doctorow shows how that conflagration overturned people's lives, tearing up families, torpedoing communities and subjecting men, women and children to the cacophonous, centrifugal forces of history. He does not delve into the reasons for the war or the ravages of slavery, but instead focuses on the chaos and dislocations of battle: families losing their homes and livelihoods; soldiers on both sides losing their lives, their limbs, their sanity to the brutalities of combat.
 The two characters with whom Mr. Doctorow most clearly sympathizes are Pearl, a teenage former slave, who succeeds in transcending her past through a redemptive act of charity toward her former owners; and Stephen Walsh, an introspective Union soldier who falls in love with her. During the opening salvos of Sherman's march on Georgia, Pearl owes her survival to a series of lucky happenstances: she is adopted by a Yankee soldier, who disguises her as a drummer boy, and she later finds employment as a nurse's aide with a doctor who is operating a field surgery for the Union wounded. Walsh, who received $300 for enlisting in the Union Army, feels only a ''grim despair'' over what he sees as an ''insane war''; his one hope is that he and Pearl will somehow survive the war and figure out a way to invent a new life together. 
 Adding to the chorus of voices in ''The March'' are a motley assortment of Yankees and Rebels. There's Emily Thompson, a prim young Southern woman, who finds herself having an affair with a Union doctor named Wrede Sartorius, whom she likens to ''some god trying to staunch the flow of human disaster.'' There's Arly, a canny con man, whose comic peregrinations will take an unexpectedly violent turn, and there are Arly's two reluctant sidekicks -- Will, a hapless young deserter; and Calvin, a photographer's assistant, who is determined to document the war.
 The most venal aspects of the Union decimation of the South are personified by a lecherous Yankee officer named Kil Kilpatrick, who treats the war as a grand opportunity to loot and womanize, while the professionalism of the military is embodied by a Colonel Teack, who toasts Sherman's tactical brilliance, but secretly scorns the general's temperamental excesses.
 As for Mr. Doctorow's Sherman, he emerges as neither the evil madman, the ''Nero of the 19th century'' portrayed in Southern mythology, nor the military visionary hailed by some Northerners. Instead, he comes across as a mercurial, hard-charging general, by turns unforgiving and sentimental, savage and ruminative. ''I have marched an army intact for four hundred miles,'' he boasts. ''I have gutted Johnny Reb's railroads. I have burned his cities, his forges, his armories, his machine shops, his cotton gins. I have eaten out his crops, I have consumed his livestock and appropriated ten thousand of his horses and mules. He is left ravaged and destitute, and even if not another battle is fought his forces must wither and die of attrition.'' 
 In actuality, the central character of this novel is not Sherman, but the Army he commands -- and its inexorable march through Dixie. We see the Army in the opening days of the campaign as a motley group of men, led by sharply dressed drummer boys and walking ''in a careless manner, chatting and laughing and looking anything but military.'' As the war progresses, however, the Army becomes a force of nature, a swollen tide of locusts devouring anything in its path, only to end, in the final days of the conflict, as a spent and hungry beast.
 ''They were angry as only exhausted men can be,'' Mr. Doctorow writes. ''The clothes on their backs were not to be dignified as rags, and their shoeless feet were bloodied and swollen. There were no drummer boys to keep the pace. There was no pace.'' 
 It is Mr. Doctorow's achievement in these pages that in recounting Sherman's march, he manages to weld the personal and the mythic into a thrilling and poignant story. He not only conveys the consequences of that campaign for soldiers and civilians in harrowingly intimate detail, but also creates an Iliad-like portrait of war as a primeval human affliction -- ''not war as adventure, nor war for a solemn cause,'' but ''war at its purest, a mindless mass rage severed from any cause, ideal, or moral principle,'' a ''characterless entanglement of brainless forces'' as God's answer ''to the human presumption.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: E.L. Doctorow (Photo by Nancy Crampton)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ARMIES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FAMILY (88%); CHRISTMAS (76%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (73%); LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%); FLOOD ZONES (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Michiko Kakutani; E L Doctorow

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



453 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; AFTER KATRINA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: The Forms Have Gone Out, but the Help Will Take Longer

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
HERE'S one way of measuring the need for disaster help: through last week, the Small Business Administration distributed 741,917 loan applications for those hurt by Hurricane Katrina. 
 Here's one way of measuring the recovery: as of last week, about 2,400 applications had been filed, and so far none have been approved for small businesses.
Even so, federal and state agencies, legislatures and private groups are putting in place a wide range of assistance for small businesses. But right now, the businesses themselves are assessing what they need. 
 Not only was a whole region devastated, but small businesses also suffered disproportionately because the Gulf Coast had a large number of companies with fewer than 50 employees, according to economy.com.
 The first stop for small-business owners is the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which screens and refers callers to the Small Business Administration for emergency disaster loans.
 A small business can qualify for up to $1.5 million under two different disaster recovery loan programs, said Carol Chastang, a spokeswoman for the agency. The Physical Disaster Business Loan provides loans, at 4 percent for up to 30 years, to help rebuild and replace lost items like office furniture and computers. The Economic Injury Disaster Loan offers loans, at the same rate, to allow companies to pay routine expenses, including payroll, rent and utilities.
 Last week, President Bush said he wanted to set up a ''Gulf Opportunity Zone'' in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, which would encourage small businesses to stay and new companies to open by providing them with tax breaks and loans. 
 Both houses of Congress are planning to broaden financial aid offerings for small-business owners struggling after Katrina.
 The Senate last week passed measures to allow deferred repayments for Small Business Administration disaster loans for one year, and to increase their size to $10 million from $1.5 million. The House is considering proposals to broaden the agency's authority to allow it to assume a business's pre-existing debt payments for up to 36 months. 
 Louisiana is also trying to help what may be as many as 100,000 small businesses affected by the hurricane. Last week, the Louisiana Economic Development Agency announced several programs to help businesses return to normal, including working with Alabama and Mississippi to develop an overall federal aid request modeled after small-business assistance in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist acts.
 The Louisiana Association of Business and Industry set up a Small Business Disaster Relief Fund to finance ''gap funding'' to pay any small-business expenses that are not covered by insurance, said Daniel Juneau, the association's director. This is important because flood damage is not covered by routine insurance policies, he said.
 The group, which has 5,000 small-business members in the state, said it had set up a Web site, AccessLouisiana.com, that matches businesses in need with those that have services to offer. National groups are lending a helping hand. The National Small Business Association, an advocacy group, is trying to raise $250,000 for expenses not covered by insurance, said Scott Hauge, the founder of Small Business California, a group affiliate. The United States Chamber of Commerce's Center for Corporate Citizenship provides a resource guide on its Web site, uschamber.com/ccc, to help businesses identify their needs and resources to fill them, said Stephen Jordan, the executive director. The center also has a job bank to seek and place workers; it collects money to help small businesses and is in the process of setting up a program to connect companies that want to ''adopt'' storm-affected businesses.
 The National Federation of Independent Business has a guide to hurricane assistance on its Web site, nfib.com, and its state representatives are working to help members. Ron Aldridge, the state director for Mississippi, estimates that 20 percent of the federation's 5,000 members in the state were hit.
 Another small-business matchmaker is the National Association of Women Business Owners, which has joined other women's business groups to set up a Web site, womenbizrelief.com. 
 In the hurricane region, the Small Business Administration has 14 disaster recovery centers in Louisiana, eight in Alabama, six in Texas and five in Mississippi and more than doubled its work force, to nearly 2,000 people, to help process disaster relief loans. 
 Many small-business owners cannot focus on filling out government paperwork when they have more immediate tasks at hand, like searching for missing employees. John Rowland, for instance, left behind his 20-year-old company, Southern Hospitality Catering, in New Orleans when he evacuated hours before the hurricane. ''Right now we're looking for the people we lost,'' he said, speaking from a cellphone at a relative's home in McLean, Va. ''And then we will definitely be looking for capital to get started again.''
 Luckily for Mr. Rowland, his building, in the city's warehouse area, is still standing although it needs repairs and to clean up spoiled food. He had been preparing a welcoming party for new students at Tulane University, which was cancelled as Katrina bore down on New Orleans. But he will have access to his financial records, which are necessary to fill out the Small Business Administration loan form.
 ''Typically, completing these forms takes a while,'' Ms. Chastang said. After small-business owners assemble their financial records, connect with insurers to assess damage, check local banks for loans and fill out the federal loan forms, their situation must be assessed by an agency loan verifier who physically examines the business before the federal loan is approved.
 The biggest need right now, said Michael A. Mitterknight, an air-conditioning contractor in Metairie, a suburb of New Orleans, ''is money to help us keep afloat for a while, and money that can be paid back over a period of time.''
 Mr. Mitterknight, whose business suffered limited damage and is already back at work, said, ''As much as I hate to say it, and I never believed in give-away programs, but just give me what I need to keep going.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: AFTERMATH -- Though the floodwaters have receded in many neighborhoods of New Orleans, the ground is covered in muck and debris. These demolished cars near Canal Street were moved to the sidewalk to make way for the cleanup. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); WEATHER (90%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TERRORISM (60%); INSURANCE POLICIES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Small Business; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (93%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (56%) Small Business Administration

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Elizabeth Olson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Mississippi; Alabama; Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



454 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Set To Open Oil Taps Full Blast

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: VIENNA, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
OPEC delegates said Monday that the group planned to allow its members to provide up to two million barrels a day of additional crude oil if the market needs it. But oil traders brushed aside the move and instead sent oil prices higher on worries of another possible hurricane. 
 Royal Dutch Shell, Chevron and other oil companies said they were evacuating some employees from offshore oil platforms in anticipation of Tropical Storm Rita. The National Hurricane Center said Monday that the storm was making its way toward the Gulf of Mexico from the Bahamas and could become a hurricane overnight.
The latest hurricane warnings helped push oil prices up on the New York Mercantile Exchange, and they closed Monday at $67.39 a barrel, up $4.39. Natural gas futures hit a record on Monday, closing at $12.663 per thousand cubic feet, up $1.519. 
 Forecasters issued a hurricane warning for parts of Southern Florida and said that by early Saturday, Rita, the 17th named storm of the Atlantic season, could make landfall near Houston, an area that is a major port and home to many refineries and petrochemical plants.
 The mayor of Galveston, Tex., Lyda Ann Thomas, called for a voluntary evacuation. Galveston is an island city and tourist destination about 50 miles southeast of Houston.
 OPEC's highly unusual decision to put on call an extra 7 percent of its production is expected to be formally announced Tuesday at the end of the group's two-day meeting in Vienna. Some oil ministers said the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries wanted to show it was doing all it could to lower oil prices even as they blamed refining shortages for the current situation.
 Under the proposal, which members have been discussing in meetings since Sunday, OPEC producers would provide as much oil as refiners and other buyers asked for, without regard to previous production limits or quotas. The production ceiling, now set at 28 million barrels a day and shared by all 11 members except Iraq, would theoretically remain unchanged.
 ''The crude is available,'' Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia's oil minister and OPEC's most influential voice, told reporters in Vienna. ''If you want it, here it is.'' 
 OPEC's plan, proposed by Sheik Ahmad Fahad al-Ahmad al-Sabah, the group's president and the oil minister from Kuwait, has the backing of Saudi Arabia, OPEC's largest producer, which would provide 75 percent of the additional oil. 
 President Bush said he welcomed a release of more oil by OPEC members, particularly if it helped cut retail gas prices by increasing supply.
 ''I have been concerned about the price at the pump that our folks are paying,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Part of that was caused by the disruptions of Hurricane Katrina. We dealt with that by suspending rules and regulations that enable us to import more gasoline. But part of the cost of gasoline is a result of high crude oil prices, and one way to affect those prices is to conserve and the other way is to encourage an increased supply.''
 OPEC's proposal is largely shaped around an earlier pledge by Saudi Arabia to fully open its taps to consumers who asked for more oil. 
 Saudi Arabia's commitment to increase its output to its full capacity of 11 million barrels a day, from 9.5 million barrels now, was repeated after Hurricane Katrina interrupted oil production from the Gulf of Mexico three weeks ago, sending the price of crude oil above $70 a barrel. 
 But the divergence between the oil market's focus and OPEC's plans illustrates the group's dilemma.
 "OPEC's move today is largely for show," said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation. "They want to appear to be responsible, but the tools that they have in the bag render them largely impotent for the moment.''
 Many delegates here have asserted repeatedly that the shortfall in energy markets was not one of crude oil but of refining capacity -- the current inability of refiners to turn oil into sufficient gasoline and other products like diesel or jet fuel.
 ''There is no issue with crude oil supplies,'' said Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah, the minister from Qatar. ''The real shortfall is in refineries, especially in the United States. We can do everything we can, except we can't interfere with the nature of the problem.''
 Still, he said OPEC hoped to send a message to oil traders, who have been bidding up oil prices over the last two years, largely on the belief that the growth in demand was outstripping the ability of suppliers to bring more oil into the market. That has contributed to a doubling in oil prices over the last two years. 
 OPEC has been facing mounting criticism from consuming nations, especially in Europe, which has been asking OPEC to act more forcefully, regardless of the refining constraints. Many of those nations are beginning to worry that high oil prices may slow growth and hurt the global economy. 
 According to OPEC's most recent statistics, the group pumps 28.2 million barrels of oil a day, about a third of global production and 40 percent of global exports. 
 Since 2003, OPEC producers have increased their output 10 percent to make up for a 5 percent rise in global oil demand. That increase leaves only one OPEC member, Saudi Arabia, with large amounts of untapped oil. Sheik Ahmad, the OPEC president, said that Nigeria, the United Arab Emirates and Libya could provide an extra 400,000 barrels a day by December.
 At their meeting on Monday, OPEC's ministers also discussed their long-term strategy and the idea of making their future investment plans clearer. The group appears to have dropped a suggestion to raise the production ceiling by 500,000 barrels a day, an idea that was floated by some OPEC officials in the days leading to the meeting.
 ''We will collectively make a pledge to have the spare capacity available if needed, but I don't believe it is needed,'' Edmund Daukoru, Nigeria's oil minister, told reporters.
 To illustrate the availability of oil on the market, many here pointed out that the United States Energy Department had recently found buyers for only 11 million barrels of crude oil from the nation's strategic reserves, just a third of the amount it had put on sale. 
 ''It proves there is no need for oil,'' Mr. Attiyah of Qatar said. ''There is a need for products.''
 Hurricane Katrina crippled the United States' main oil and gas production region, sending energy markets into a tailspin. But perhaps of greater concern for energy markets, it caused the shutdown of four major refineries along the Gulf of Mexico. These refineries, which can process nearly 900,000 barrels a day, or 5 percent of American capacity, are likely to be out of commission for months.
 Chevron said Monday that a large refinery damaged by Hurricane Katrina in Pascagoula, Miss., would not be fully operational until mid-November. Under normal operations, the plant, which accounts for about 2 percent of the nation's capacity, processes 325,000 barrels of crude oil a day, the largest amount from the four refineries that are still recovering from Katrina damage.
 The refining crunch in the United States caused gasoline supplies to dip, led to spot shortages in some parts of the country and, for a brief period, pushed gasoline prices above $3 a gallon nationwide for the first time. 
 As a response to that shock, consuming nations dipped into their oil reserves to make up for the production shortfall from the Gulf of Mexico. The crisis prompted the Bush administration to tap into the nation's strategic stocks, something it had been reluctant to do. 
 The International EnergyAgency, which usually provides advice on energy policies to 26 industrialized nations, also activated its emergency oil plan, releasing oil for only the second time in its 29-year history.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Reporters clustered in Vienna yesterday to hear the Saudi Arabian oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, as he discussed OPEC's production proposal. (Photo by Mark H. Milstein/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (79%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); TOURISM (52%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (51%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Royal Dutch/shell Group; Chevron Corp

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) AUSTRIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (86%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAHAMAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



455 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Narrow Interest Rate Gap Is Squeezing Retail Banks 

BYLINE: By Julie Creswell

 BODY:
FOR years, Commerce Bancorp has positioned itself as more of a retailer than a bank, modeling its branches after McDonald's and Starbucks and hiring executives from places like Wal-Mart and Disney.
 Unfortunately, that concept has now run up against a fundamental of the banking business: borrow cheap and lend high. This year, the gap between short-term and long-term interest rates has narrowed, leaving little room for retail-focused banks like Commerce to profit that way.
As a result, the highflying shares of Commerce fell to earth last week after the bank warned that earnings would not meet Wall Street expectations for the rest of the year. The stock, which closed yesterday at $31.16, is down 7.7 percent from the closing price before its Sept. 12 warning. 
 Commerce is not the only bank being squeezed by what is known as the flattening of the yield curve. On Thursday, Fifth Third Bancorp said that the prolonged flattening would reduce its third-quarter earnings more than it had anticipated. After that announcement, several Wall Street analysts lowered their rating on Fifth Third, sending its shares plunging to a five-year low of $38.10. It closed yesterday at $38.86, down 4.1 percent from its closing price of $40.52 before the announcement on Thursday. 
 Investors are keeping a close eye on the yield curve because banks make a big chunk of their revenues and profits from borrowing money at low short-term rates and lending it to individuals and corporations at higher rates.
 Analysts say more banks are likely to miss earnings estimates if the yield curve continues to flatten. In the last year -- shortly after the Federal Reserve began raising short-term interest rates -- the difference in yield between the 2-year and 10-year Treasury notes (a typical measure of the yield curve on Wall Street) has narrowed to 0.26 percentage points, from 1.68 percentage points.
 The trend could continue if Federal Reserve policy makers raise short-term interest rates for the 11th consecutive time at their meeting today. Some analysts say they believe, though, that the Fed may wait to see what the economic fallout will be from Hurricane Katrina.
 It has been a tough year for banks. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange KBW bank index of 24 banking company stocks is down 5 percent this year, a greater drop than the 1.3 percent decline in the Dow Jones industrial average. Indeed, it is the first time in five years that banks are not outperforming the market, noted Jon G. Arfstrom, managing director at RBC Capital Markets. ''This is definitely a more difficult environment for banks,'' he said.
 Some banks, including Citigroup and Bank of America, were hit by the flatter yield curve in the second quarter. Now some regional banks like Commerce and Fifth Third warn they are being affected as well.
 Meredith Whitney, a bank analyst at CIBC World Markets, said more regional banks were likely to miss current Wall Street earnings estimates. That is because the average regional bank derives more than 60 percent of its revenue from the difference in rates in the yield curve, Ms. Whitney said. For instance, she estimated that Commerce made 71 percent of its revenue from this rate gap, compared with 49 percent at Citigroup.
 The continued flattening of the yield curve caused Commerce's chief executive, Vernon W. Hill II, to project net income of 45 cents a share for the third and fourth quarters this year. Analysts had been projecting earnings of 47 cents and 49 cents, respectively, for the two quarters.
 Banks find themselves with little wiggle room, because they are under pressure to attract new customers by offering higher yields on deposits (or, in the case of J.P. Morgan Chase, free iPod Shuffles). But they are also struggling to charge higher rates for home mortgages or home equity loans in those intensely competitive markets.
 As if that were not enough, another risk on the horizon for banks is the potential for a worsening of credit quality, which could further depress earnings next year, said Denis Laplante, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods. ''When it comes to credit quality and provision for losses at the banks, if we're not at historic lows, we're certainly close to cycle lows,'' Mr. Laplante said. ''It's likely credit costs are going to be going up next year.'' 
 For instance, banks like Commerce, KeyCorp and National City reported net charge-offs of about 0.27 percentage point in the second quarter. A more normalized charge-off rate for those banks is probably closer to 0.60 percentage point, which would lower per-share earnings by 5 to 13 percent, Mr. Laplante estimated. He anticipates that charge-off rates at banks will creep higher next year, but still remain well under normalized loss rates.
 Still, as banks feel increased pressure on earnings, it could spur increased merger and acquisition activity, which has been extremely light this year, analysts said. So far in 2005, only 17 bank mergers valued at more than $500 million have been announced -- the lowest number of deals since 1990, according to data from Keefe Bruyette. 
 While executives at a number of larger banks like J.P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup have expressed interest in expanding their consumer banking operations, one factor holding them back is that their stocks are trading at lower multiples, 10 or 11 times earnings, compared with the regional banks, which are trading at 13 or 14 times earnings in some cases.
 ''The stocks of the regional banks are still trading at pretty rich valuations compared to the big banks, but if those multiples come down, you'll see an opportunity for some consolidation,'' Ms. Whitney said. ''You have major banks like Wachovia, J.P. Morgan and Citigroup that are looking for size and all ready to pounce.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); YIELD CURVE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Banks and Banking; Credit; Interest Rates; Industry Profiles; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (93%); TD BANK NA (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (51%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (50%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Commerce Bancorp; Fifth Third Bancorp

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (66%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



456 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; LESSONS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Controlling Quality: The Hard Road to Building a Brand

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA POSTREL. 
Virginia Postrel (dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness.''

 BODY:
WHEN Craig and Randy Rubin started Hi-Tex Inc. in November 1993, they never intended to open a factory. ''Our charter was no bricks and mortar,'' said Ms. Rubin. The business, in West Bloomfield, Mich., was set up, she added, to be a branding and a technology company.
 Now, 12 years later, they have more than $25 million in annual sales, 52 employees and a hard-won appreciation for how much day-to-day control it takes to turn a promising technology into a reliable brand. And, yes, they have a factory.
From the beginning, Randy Rubin was the branding expert, a marketing veteran of companies like Chevrolet and J.C. Penney. Her husband, Craig, had the technology, a new idea for an old industry. 
 In the late 1980's, inspired by a drugstore display of Depend adult diapers, he came up with an idea for a substitute for vinyl -- a way to make fabric that was breathable yet tough, impervious to liquid, stain-resistant and antimicrobial. He had researched the chemistry but, with a collapsing marriage and a ''beast'' of a boss, he never followed through.
 In 1992 Mr. Rubin married Randy, and a year later he heard about a company that was putting vinyl on the back of fabric rather than on the front. Something clicked. He told his new wife about his old idea, and she convinced him they could build a company around it.
 They patented the technology and trademarked the fabric's name, Crypton. They used a fabric-finishing contractor in South Carolina to process the raw fabric into Crypton and ship it to customers. They managed the business from their home in Michigan, hiring just a handful of employees. 
 ''Our model was so Fast Company,'' Ms. Rubin said, referring to the new-economy business magazine. ''That's what we were. And it just didn't work.''
 Things looked great at first. In 1994, the company's first year of operations, the Rubins projected sales of $200,000 to $300,000 but did more than $900,000. Their first promotional mailing, to 1,700 designers, got an unheard of 37 percent response.
 Crypton quickly found a niche among contract furniture makers, particularly those selling to the health care industry. At $9.85 a yard, the new fabric was more expensive than solid-colored vinyl, which sold for a third as much, but it was about the same price as vinyl-coated printed fabrics. 
 Assisted-living centers were going up around the country, and they liked Crypton because it seemed homier than vinyl. McDonald's used the fabric in remodeled restaurants, giving fledgling Hi-Tex credibility. The company got its first patent in 1995, and the following year sales grew more than 76 percent.
 The fabric let furniture companies slash inventory costs. Hi-Tex bought plain white polyester and had it treated to create Crypton. The company added patterns to the plain Crypton with heat-transfer printing. A customer could buy as little as 75 yards of Crypton, compared with minimum orders of 1,500 yards of vinyl. So a furniture maker could add Crypton prints to its sample book without carrying inventory. ''That's life-changing for the furniture manufacturers,'' Ms. Rubin said.
 As Hi-Tex grew, however, its business got more complicated. In 1998, the company began selling a more sophisticated two-color woven fabric as well as transfer prints. It also licensed a mill to make woven Jacquard prints for conversion to Crypton. The licensee, rather than Hi-Tex, inventoried and sold those products. By 2000, four more mills began producing Crypton fabrics. 
 But a brand is not just a trademark. It's a promise and an identity created through customer experience. As sales grew, the Crypton brand started to have trouble keeping its commitments. Customers didn't always get their shipments within the promised five days, and the South Carolina contractor often could not tell the company where fabric orders were.
 Customer relations grew tense. ''I would make a circuit of all our customers once a month for them to explain things to me,'' said Dan Fouratt, the company's chief operating officer. Ms. Rubin said, ''Dan would get beat up every time.'' 
 Then, in the fall of 2000, Crypton broke its fundamental promise. ''We had our one field failure,'' Mr. Fouratt said. Blood soaked through the fabric on a new hospital chair, one of 576 covered in Crypton. The company tested several other chairs from the same site. Those seats also leaked. The contractor had skipped a step in the Crypton process.
 Hi-Tex collected all 576 chairs and installed new, properly manufactured fabric on the entire lot. The customer was satisfied. But the failure marked a turning point. The Rubins decided to open their own plant.
 ''We learned a very hard lesson, that if we didn't have total control of the product, we couldn't really go to market the way we wanted to. We had nothing,'' Ms. Rubin said. ''If we weren't absolutely positive at the end of every night that it was being made perfectly, we would lose the whole thing.''
 An outside contractor had been fine when producing Crypton was a relatively simple business of running uniform white fabric through a series of coatings. But the company's growth added complexity. The mills' Jacquard fabrics needed pretesting to make sure they could be transformed into Crypton and inspecting to verify that the process worked. Hi-Tex itself was adding new fabrics with different weights, requiring experimentation and separate runs. Besides, if sales kept growing, the business would eventually be too big for a single contractor.
 In July 2001, the company bought a 115,000-square-foot former L'eggs hosiery plant in Kings Mountain, N.C., a rural town near Charlotte. Bad times for the textile industry were good for Hi-Tex. For the empty building on 35 acres, Mr. Rubin wrote a check for $1.1 million, down from the original asking price of $3.7 million.
 To run the plant, the Rubins hired Rick Isbell, a seasoned plant manager from one of Crypton's licensed mills. In his old job, Mr. Rubin said, Mr. Isbell ''was Dr. Death. When they sent him into the plant,'' workers ''knew he was going to close it.'' Now, instead of shutting down plants, Mr. Isbell would build one from scratch.
 With textile jobs disappearing, he could hire the area's best workers. ''We were fortunate to be able to go around when these plants were shutting down and talk to the plant managers. We got to really pick the best people they had,'' Mr. Isbell said.
 Today, the North Carolina plant produces seven or eight times as many yards of fabric as the old operation. As fabric comes in from the mills, it's sorted, with similar weights and textures sewn together into rolls. Each roll goes through a primer solution, which gives the fabric its antimicrobial and stain-resistant properties, and then through an oven. Next, the fabric is covered in a thin, latex-based barrier coating and cured in another oven, a process that is repeated until the fabric meets the company's standards for repelling water.
 Though it wasn't in the original plan, the plant has, in fact, made Hi-Tex a better technology and branding company -- and more ambitious. With a factory to equip and a small lab to experiment in, the company has rapidly developed new products, including suedelike upholstery fabrics, an indoor-outdoor fabric and a weatherproof, lightweight Crypton for Covercraft, the largest maker of car covers. Up next: Crypton carpet, a potentially huge market.
 In November, a $1 million custom-made machine is expected to arrive from Italy, enabling a new process that Hi-Tex employees call ''Dan's coating technology,'' named after Mr. Fouratt. By reducing the amount of barrier coating, the process will make Crypton less stiff and allow the plant to treat textured fabrics like chenille.
 That should not only expand the company's market but also help forestall some potential competition. W.L. Gore of Gore-Tex fame is now treating high-end upholstery fabrics -- the nubby textures and natural fibers that don't suit the Crypton process -- with its own Gore Seating Protection.
 Randy Rubin, meanwhile, is plotting a strategy to make Crypton a residential upholstery brand. 
 Last year, Ms. Rubin persuaded the photographer William Wegman to design a dog-themed line of Crypton fabrics. Now she's starting a business to sell Crypton products, including tote bags, computer cases, pillows and -- most prominently -- dog beds. Independent sales reps will handle the retail market, while Hi-Tex sells the products on its Web site, cryptonfabric.com.
 It's an elaborate publicity stunt. ''We really don't need to be making dog beds,'' Ms. Rubin said. The goal is to attract enough retail placements and press attention to make consumers demand Crypton from furniture makers. ''I don't see any other way to do it,'' she said. ''If you do, you tell me. To me it's the most logical thing we can do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ENTREPRENEURS -- Craig and Randy Rubin built a company in Bloomfield, Mich., and used contractors to make their product, stain-proof upholstery. But to control quality, they ended up buying a factory of their own, below, in Kings Mountain, N.C. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Sara D. Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (91%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PATENTS (89%); FABRICS (88%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); FURNITURE MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (75%); TEXTILES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (72%); FINISHED FABRICS (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (60%); HEALTH CARE (50%); SALES PROJECTIONS (50%) Textiles; Factories and Industrial Plants; Small Business; Textiles

COMPANY: HI-TEX INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Hi-Tex Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS323113 COMMERCIAL SCREEN PRINTING (92%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (92%)

PERSON: Randy Rubin; Craig Rubin; Virginia Postrel

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



457 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; PRACTICAL MATTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Staying Small, Going Global: How Uncle Sam Can Help

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER

 BODY:
THE government wants to help the little guy sell more goods not just in America but around the world. And many loan-guarantee and insurance programs exist to give small businesses more incentives to push their products abroad. 
 Just ask Paul Ibanez about his shake tables. His company, Anco Engineers of Boulder, Colo., employs five people. It produces shake tables, which are machines that simulate earthquakes to test the structural integrity of small-scale building models. It sells them worldwide. 
Last year, Anco received a contract to sell a shake table to a government agency in Romania. The price was $1.1 million, with a short delivery date.
 To build the table, Anco needed about $600,000 in working capital, half of which it needed to borrow. So Mr. Ibanez went to some big commercial banks, seeking a $300,000 line of credit.
 ''They strung me along for weeks,'' he said, before deciding they did not want to be bothered with so modest a sum. Ditto for ''several other lending companies,'' all of which wanted to charge enormous fees.
 Ultimately, Mr. Ibanez turned to the Small Business Administration. Besides its general loan guarantee program, it also offers loan guarantees for those involved in international trade. 
 ''They worked with incredible speed,'' Mr. Ibanez said of the private lender recommended by the Small Business Administration. ''Their fees were low and they were very professional.'' They gave him his line of credit, and Anco delivered the table on time, while the United States made a tiny dent in its balance-of-payments deficit.
 Which was exactly the point in this era of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Central American Free Trade Agreement and globalization in general, when foreign trade is important to the American economy. About $300 billion in small- and medium-size exports contribute to the economy annually, said James Morrison, president of the Small Business Exporters Association of the United States. 
 But most small businesses still shy away from foreign trade, primarily because ''there's no one to tell them what to do,'' said Manuel A. Rosales, the associate administrator for the Small Business Administration's Office of International Trade, which oversees the program used by Anco. 
 To help, the Commerce Department has established 108 Export Assistance Centers around the country. The Small Business Administration has a staff person in about 20 of them. 
 Mr. Rosales said the guarantees generally covered up to 90 percent of a loan's value, higher than the 75 percent loan guarantees generally offered for domestic loans, he said. Although the maximum amount guaranteed is normally $1.5 million, under certain circumstances, through an agreement with the Export-Import Bank, the nation's export-credit agency, the guarantee can go higher, up to 90 percent of a $2 million loan.
 Ex-Im runs programs that aim to ease the purchase of American goods and services abroad. The most important is export credit insurance, which encourages lenders to provide money to American exporters who want to extend credit to their overseas customers by letting them buy now and pay later, called an open account. Traditionally, lenders shy away from such transactions because small-business borrowers have little or no collateral except their foreign receivables.
 In such cases, ''small businesses can get up to 95 percent coverage, with no deductible,'' said James H. Lambright, acting chairman of the Export-Import Bank. The insurance is generally good for sales on terms of up to 180 days, although 360-day policies are also available under exceptional circumstances. 
 Besides its joint loan guarantee program with the Small Business Administration, Ex-Im has its own program guaranteeing loans to American businesses for cash flow needs related to exports. It also guarantees and insures medium-term and long-term loans to foreign buyers of American products. By law, the bank must reserve 20 percent of the total value of its financing to small businesses. 
 The Reinke Manufacturing Company of Deshler, Neb., has worked with Ex-Im Bank in ''several different ways,'' said Bob Frank, the company's vice president for international sales.
 For example, Reinke, which manufactures irrigation equipment, sells to distributors on open account outside the United States. ''About 25 to 30 percent of these sales are insured by Ex-Im,'' Mr. Frank said, totaling up to $3 million annually. 
 Another government source for help with international transactions is the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, or OPIC. It provides loan guarantees and offers political risk insurance for investors involved in projects in developing countries. To qualify, a business must be 25 percent American-owned.
 A division of OPIC is devoted exclusively to small- and medium-size businesses. Last year, it provided an $8.5 million investment guarantee to a Botswana company, the Kalahari Gas Corporation, so it could borrow money to buy equipment for drilling natural-gas wells. Kalahari is partly owned by Covalent Energy Inc., in Arlington, Va.
 Covalent went to OPIC, said John Kelafant, its president, primarily because loan terms, made by a private American lender and guaranteed by OPIC, were much better than those that had been discussed with lenders in Africa. 
 The federal government's efforts to support small-business exporters are not without critics. Despite claims by agencies that they are committed to small businesses, ''there's still a temptation to go with the bigger deal,'' said Mr. Morrison, of the Small Business Exporters Association. ''That's always going to be an issue with Ex-Im and OPIC.'' Critics in Congress have charged repeatedly in recent years that Ex-Im has not lived up to its 20 percent small-business requirement. 
 An Ex-Im spokeswoman, Marianna Ohe, said that sometimes a large deal or two would cause the total dollar amount of the bank's small-business transactions to dip below 20 percent of the total. 
 But small businesses still find the government's international trade programs useful. 
 ''We were on the verge of defaulting on our contract before we got involved with the Small Business Administration,'' said Mr. Ibanez, of Anco Engineers. ''They saved us.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Dave Casey)Chart: ''Farther Afield''The Small Business Administration has increased its international trade loan guarantees in recent years.Graph shows INTERNATIONAL TRADE 7(A)* LOAN GUARANTEES since 1998.(Fiscal years ending Sept. 30)*S.B.A.'s primary business loan program.(Source by Small Business Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (87%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); WORKING CAPITAL (54%) International Trade and World Market; Small Business; Credit; Insurance

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (93%)

PERSON: Bernard Stamler

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); ROMANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



458 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Shares Tumble on Worries Over New Storm and Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Shares plummeted yesterday as heightened fears of another hurricane hitting some part of the Gulf Coast sent oil prices racing past $67 a barrel and investors grew concerned about the Federal Reserve's meeting today on interest rates. 
 Wall Street saw some bright spots in merger activity and strong earnings from Nike and Carnival, but the market became increasingly uneasy as surging energy prices threatened consumer spending. Investors also awaited the Fed's decision on whether to raise rates or to halt its string of increases to mitigate any economic slide after Hurricane Katrina.
 With an intensifying Tropical Storm Rita nearing Florida's tip and poised to enter the Gulf of Mexico just weeks after Hurricane Katrina's devastation, the market retreated late in the day. 
 ''Front and center would be concerns of the storm approaching tomorrow, of which you're seeing crude oil trading up $4,'' said Steven Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Company.
 Crude oil made its biggest one-day gain ever, even as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries neared a consensus on allowing sales of two million additional barrels a day to offset a potential supply shortage from recent refinery shutdowns.
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, a barrel of light crude jumped $4.39, to $67.39.
 By the close of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average had dropped 84.31 points, or 0.79 percent, to 10,557.63. The Dow lost as much as 120.69 points during the session. Broader stock indicators also declined. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.89 points, or 0.56 percent, to 1,231.02, and the Nasdaq composite index sank 15.09, or 0.7 percent, to 2,145.26.
 The 10-year Treasury note rose by 8/32 to a price of 100 1/32, with the yield sliding to 4.25 percent from 4.27 percent on Friday. 
 Although Wall Street is uncertain what the Fed's decision is likely to be, many analysts are predicting that the central bank will continue lifting rates to stem inflation and will keep that as its main priority despite the widespread economic ripple left by the hurricane. 
 In corporate news, Nike, the world's biggest shoemaker, said higher sales across the board helped lift its first-quarter profit 32 percent to easily beat Wall Street expectations. Worldwide future orders for products scheduled for delivery through January 2006 grew 11 percent to $4.9 billion, the company added. Nike surged $4.99, to $83.45.
 The cruise ship operator Carnival posted a 12 percent gain in third-quarter profit, as revenue swelled from increased ship capacity and ticket prices. The company also said that while the hurricane depressed results in the latest quarter, recent bookings remained strong and average prices were above those of the year before. Carnival added $1.75, to $50.78.
 Sirius Satellite Radio raised its projected full-year revenue by $5 million, to $230 million, but the expanded forecast still fell short of analyst targets for $234.5 million. The company maintained estimates for three million subscribers by year-end, up from about 2.1 million as of last week. Sirius fell 35 cents, to $6.70. 
 The following are the results of the Treasury's auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.116	98.121	High Rate	 3.495	 3.715	Investment Rate	 3.575	 3.839	Low Rate	 3.410	 3.670	Median Rate	 3.475	 3.690	Total applied for	$45,096,111	$37,826,510	Accepted	$37,826,510	$21,152,090	Noncompetitive	$1,683,313	$1,473,270	

Both issues are dated Sept. 22, 2005. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 22, 2005 and the six-month bills mature on March 23, 2006.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills
 in percent at weekly auction from June to Aug. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); HURRICANES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); WEATHER (73%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); TICKET SALES (66%); CRUISES (62%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (85%); WEEDEN & CO LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



459 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Students Receive Fewer A's, and Princeton Calls It Progress

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Princeton University significantly reduced the number of A's it gave out last year, according to a report released yesterday by the university, but it still wants to do more.
 Roughly 41 percent of the grades given in undergraduate courses last year were A-pluses, A's or A-minuses, down from 46 percent the previous year and 48 percent the year before that. In April 2004, the Princeton faculty set a goal of 35 percent. The school year that ended in May was the first year under the policy. 
''We are all very proud of our faculty for committing themselves to this very bold initiative,'' said T. Kyle Vanderlick, the chairwoman of the chemical engineering department and a member of the committee that reported on the changes in grading. ''And we were delighted with the progress we have made.''
 The committee, which included deans, department chairmen and other faculty members, said if there was as much change in grades in the current academic year as there had been in the last academic year, Princeton would reach its goal at the end of this school year. 
 Nancy Malkiel, dean of the college and one of the architects of the plan to cut grade inflation, said that reducing the number of A's was important to give students a more accurate picture of how they were doing and to inspire them to work harder.
 ''If we're giving them the same grades for their very best work as for their good work,'' she said yesterday, ''we're not giving them well-calibrated guidance about the difference between very good and best, and we're not challenging them to do their very best work.''
 Princeton was not alone in its generous grading, she said. A Princeton survey of the eight Ivy League colleges plus Stanford, M.I.T. and the University of Chicago, made before Princeton adopted its tougher grading policy, found that A's accounted for 44 percent to 55 percent of their undergraduate grades.
 She said she did not know how many other schools, if any, had adopted similar policies, but that other schools had invited her to speak about what Princeton was doing.
 Ms. Malkiel said that when she made a report last spring to the deans of Ivy League colleges and several other prestigious schools, ''some of them said, 'We've got to go back to work on this.'''
 There had been some protest from students and faculty members when the grading policy was adopted. One-third of the faculty voted against it and some students expressed concerns that they would not be able to compete with other schools for fellowships and for admission to graduate schools and professional programs like medicine and law.
 And there are still some reservations about the policy. Leslie-Bernard Joseph, president of the undergraduate student government, said yesterday that there were definitely concerns about the grading policy, and that students were studying it and planned to recommend changes.
 ''People have had their work graded down because of the guidelines, even though they're only supposed to be guidelines,'' Mr. Joseph said. ''We have a lot of anecdotal evidence about this.''
 Before Princeton adopted the new grading policy, some of its departments were tougher than others in their grading. And some made more progress last year than others.
 According to the report, the humanities departments reduced their A's last year to 46 percent from 56 percent. The social sciences cut A's to 38 percent from 43 percent. Engineering reduced A's to 43 percent from 48 percent. The natural sciences, which were already at 36 percent A's, held steady.
 Ms. Malkiel declined to identify the departments that had made little progress, but said their number was ''fewer than the fingers of one hand.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



460 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Roosevelt Journal; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Built as a Refuge With a Dash of Utopia, It Faces Change and Resists It 

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: ROOSEVELT, N.J., Sept. 16 

 BODY:
Mystique and mythology shroud this town's birth in the New Deal era.
 In 1936, nearly 1,000 mostly east European Jews were given new beginnings by Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Resettlement Administration in this two-square-mile town in central New Jersey.
It was an experiment born of utopianism and animated social activism, an attempt to create a socialism-based town, complete with a cooperative garment factory and cooperative farms -- recreating, in effect, a European shtetl on United States soil.
 Pearl Seligman, 76, who grew up here and who still lives in the same home in which she was raised, remembers it as a kind of Jewish nirvana. 
 ''It is as if you took a village from eastern Europe full of intellectuals and planted it in New Jersey where they just continued all of their conversations in Yiddish,'' she said, walking among the modest gravestones at the town's cemetery and placing stones on the markers where she stopped.
 These days the single synagogue in town, its only house of worship, is finding it difficult to draw a minyan -- 10 Jewish men necessary to hold services -- except on the holiest days. Temple elders have tried to make changes, such as holding services in English rather than Hebrew and dispensing with the mechitza, the barrier that separates male and female seating areas in the sanctuary, but attendance has not improved.
 And the search for Jews to bring new life to the once Orthodox, now ''traditional'' synagogue -- neither Orthodox, Conservative nor Reform -- has brought dissent.
 Neil Marko, who was president of the synagogue board and is now mayor of Roosevelt, accepted an offer to rent space for a yeshiva in the synagogue, serving 12 ninth graders at first but eventually 150 students. The yeshiva, organized by the successful Telshe Yeshiva Alumni, which has started such schools around the country, holds classes 14 hours a day, six days a week, and buses its students in from dormitories in nearby towns.
 Not everyone sees the plan -- the hope is to attract Orthodox families to move into town -- as the only hope to keep the synagogue alive. Further, critics object to the way the synagogue's board of directors and the mayor have acted in bringing in the yeshiva. Critics have accused Mr. Marko of neglecting his duty as mayor for failing to consider the eventual effect of 150 students on the town's water, sewer and road infrastructure and taxes. The addition of the school constitutes a significant change of use for the synagogue building, they say, requiring the government to make sure that fire safety and health considerations are addressed, as well.
 The complaints have led to an effort to recall Mayor Marko, which is now making its way through state courts.
 ''This is a small town, and if you have 150 people coming in, it changes the town,'' said Freda Hepner, Roosevelt's mayor from 1984 to 1988. ''I'm not against the school, just against how it is being done. I think the mayor was committed to letting the yeshiva come in and is just letting it happen.''
 Mr. Marko and Joshua Pruzansky, executive director of the school, Yeshiva Me'On HaTorah, insist that adding it did not require a zoning variance or building permits, and so the government had no real role to play. Further, Mr. Marko said, he sees no need for changes to fire safety and health permits, although he agreed after a Town Council meeting to verify this with state officials. 
 Beyond that, he argued, his interference could be seen as an unconstitutional interference by government with the free exercise of religion.
 Mr. Marko and other supporters of the yeshiva said they suspected that what was really driving the resistance to the yeshiva was not safety concerns but a thinly veiled prejudice. The most overt indications of this possibility were the anonymous notes vaguely referring to the yeshiva and bearing swastikas that have appeared on the town bulletin board outside the post office; they were turned over to the State Police.
 But Arthur Shapiro, the town historian who also grew up in Roosevelt, said he sensed that it was not so much anti-Semitism as anti-Orthodox feelings.
 ''This is about a culture clash between devout Jews and secular, nonreligious Jews,'' he said. ''This is the only town in the U.S. whose only house of worship is a synagogue, and I find it ironic that people are fighting and debating whether Jews should come in.''
 Designed on a meticulous layout by Louis I. Kahn, Alfred Kastner and other planners, in the philosophy of the early 20th-century Garden City movement, the homes still back onto a densely wooded swath. The town's place in history is in one way preserved with its listing on the New Jersey and the National Registers of Historic Places.
 Still, Roosevelt has changed in many ways. Its Bauhaus-style homes were once uniformly flat-roofed and one story, nestled in among trees. Many have since blossomed with second stories, additions, siding and shingles, interspersed with four geodesic dome homes and a solar-powered center for the elderly. The dream of a socialist economy failed shortly after Roosevelt's founding, and hopes for public ownership of the homes long ago gave way to typical American-dream, single-family suburban home ownership. 
 The biggest change, however, has been the loss of its Jewishness. Its population still hovers just under 1,000, but it is now only about 30 to 35 percent Jewish.
 Jonathan Ament, senior project director in the planning and research department of United Jewish Communities, said Roosevelt reflected a national trend. 
 According to the organization's decennial National Jewish Population Survey, 10 percent of those who identify themselves as Jewish define themselves as Orthodox. But the Orthodox, with their large families, account for 23 percent of synagogue membership, and that figure is growing. In contrast, the number of Jews who identify themselves as Reform, Conservative or ''just Jewish'' is shrinking.
 Rabbi Tzzi Hersh Weinreb, executive vice president of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America, said that with the growth of Orthodox Jews, ''cultural clashes'' have become more common. ''Change is hard,'' Rabbi Weinreb said. ''But that is part of living in society.''
 Ms. Seligman, for one, said she was concerned about the ''intended and unintended consequences of such change'' and the fate of the town's ''historic awareness of environmental constraints and other carrying capacity considerations.''
 ''Change is inevitable,'' she said. ''But it can be positive or it can be negative.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 20 about efforts to increase the Jewish population of Roosevelt, N.J., a town created in the New Deal era as a haven for Eastern European Jews, misstated the share of synagogue membership nationwide represented by Orthodox Jews and the change since 1990 in the numbers of Jews who identify themselves as Reform or ''just Jewish,'' according to a 2000 survey by United Jewish Communities, an umbrella group. Orthodox families make up 27 percent, not 23. The numbers of Reform and unaffiliated Jews stayed the same; they did not shrink. 
 The caption of a picture showing a bust of Franklin D. Roosevelt in the town gave an incorrect identification in some copies for the sculptor. He is Jonathan Shahn. (The artist Ben Shahn, who died in 1969, was his father.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of many Bauhaus-style homes. Jonathan Shahn, son of the artist Ben Shahn, made a bust of Roosevelt.
 Pearl Seligman, 76, in the Roosevelt cemetery. Nearly 1,000 Jews made a new start in the town in 1936. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (72%); MEN (71%); RELOCATIONS (67%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (63%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (60%); APPAREL MFG (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



461 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: F.E.C. Sues Republican Group Over Political Contributions

BYLINE: By GLEN JUSTICE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The Federal Election Commission filed suit Monday against the Club for Growth, a well-funded Republican group, in an effort to force the organization to comply with limits on political contributions.
 The suit is the first major enforcement case to involve a ''527 committee,'' the independent political organizations that both Republicans and Democrats used to raise and spend hundreds of millions of dollars in the 2004 races. Commission officials describe it as a test case that could have a major impact on how future elections are financed. 
''This is one of the most important suits the commission has brought in the last decade,'' said Michael Toner, the commission's Republican vice chairman.
 Last year's election was the first conducted under the McCain-Feingold law of 2002, which banned political parties from accepting unlimited contributions known as soft money. However, donors continued to direct six- and seven-figure checks to 527 committees, which argued that they could still legally accept unlimited soft money contributions.
 After months of legal wrangling last year, the commission declined to adopt new regulations that would specifically require 527 groups to register with the F.E.C. and submit to contribution limits and other regulations. Donors are allowed to give $5,000 to a political action committee each year.
 The commission was left with a list of complaints against specific groups, which are now being investigated. The case against the Club for Growth is the first in line.
 The Club for Growth, which has more than 30,000 members, advocates conservative economic policies and for years has backed candidates who share those views. 
 The group runs a political action committee, which raised roughly $1.9 million and forwarded another $7.5 million directly to candidates last year, all operating within federal contribution limits, said David Keating, the group's executive director.
 The club also operates a 527 committee, which raised about $8.5 million, Mr. Keating said. It was this organization that was the subject of the F.E.C. suit, which was filed in United States District Court here. 
 The suit alleges that the organization failed to properly register with the commission as a political committee, which would subject the group to contribution limits and other regulations, and that it raised millions in excessive contributions in recent years. Officials at the club said they had done nothing improper.
 The case stems from a complaint filed against the group by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in connection with a television advertisement broadcast last year. The commission voted to file the suit Monday after talks between the two parties failed to reach an out-of-court agreement, according to the F.E.C. 
 The commission is seeking an unspecified fine and a court ruling directing the Club for Growth to submit to F.E.C. regulation. If the commission wins, it could have broad implications for other groups that are similarly structured. 
 Pat Toomey, a former lawmaker and the president of Club for Growth, called the commission's suit a ''war on the First Amendment'' that will help protect incumbent politicians.
 ''The F.E.C.'s claims and legal theories are a bizarre interpretation of the club's mission, the Constitution, the laws adopted by Congress and their own regulations,'' Mr. Toomey said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); ETHICS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%) Finances; Ethics; Law and Legislation; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (93%) Club for Growth; Federal Election Commission

PERSON: Glen Justice

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



462 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Direction Is Unclear, Much as Germany's Is After Vote

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Europe, weakened by the seeming collapse of its constitutional project in May, faces even more uncertainty after the election in Germany on Sunday, which left no party with a clear mandate.
 ''It's May 29 all over again,'' said Dominique Moisi, a senior adviser at the French Institute for International Relations, referring to the date that France rejected the European Union's draft constitution, stalling a half-century of progress toward European unity.
Both Germany and France, the traditional engines of the European Union, are now consumed by domestic politics and are unlikely to provide the strong leadership needed to re-energize the bloc. 
 Germany may emerge with a weak coalition government from its split vote, while France has lost steam since May, leaving President Jacques Chirac largely sidelined while his would-be successors dominate the political stage. 
 Of course, it is too early to say what the real impact of the German elections will be. But the surprisingly narrow margin of the conservative, Angela Merkel, over Chancellor Gerhard Schroder brought anxious analysis across Europe. 
 At best, Europe will continue to idle while Germany sorts out who is in charge. But many commentators worry that the most ambitious European vision -- a union speaking with one voice on international affairs and backed by a military capacity distinct from that of NATO -- may evaporate in the meantime.
 ''You have this big, fuzzy Europe looking inward instead of discussing world affairs,'' said Anne-Marie Le Gloannec, a European relations specialist at the Center for International Studies and Research in France.
 Hopes that Europe can salvage its constitutional project also grow more uncertain. A complicated effort to wrap the various treaties governing the union into a single document foundered on the French rejection of the draft constitution. Mr. Schroder's government had backed the idea of writing a shorter, simpler constitution, but that issue is one of many that are in limbo.
 ''In most questions, Germany won't be able to take a leadership role,'' Ms. Gloannec said.
 Mr. Moisi said the muddied European waters were bad for the United States, which more than ever needed a clear ally to deal with an increasingly despotic Russia, an increasingly assertive China and a recalcitrant Iran. Europe has played a central role in pressing Iran to give up a uranium enrichment program that both sides of the Atlantic fear is intended for nuclear weapons.
 Europe could suffer in other ways, too. While changes in Germany's economy may yet proceed, many Europeans had also hoped that a clear mandate for Mrs. Merkel's ambitious pro-business plans would add momentum to much needed economic restructuring on the Continent.
 ''The message already is that Germany is attached to an economic model founded on social guarantees,'' said Guillaume Klossa, a professor focused on European economies at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales, one of the Continent's leading business schools. ''It will slow reform in France.''
 Without competitive pressure from Germany, the region's largest economy, inertia could stymie efforts to revamp Europe's other sluggish socialist economies.
 The lack of European leadership is also expected to cloud talks about Turkey's membership in the union, scheduled to start Oct. 3. Mr. Schroder supports Turkey's membership, but Mrs. Merkel opposes it. Analysts say the talks are unlikely to make much progress without a clear German position.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%) Politics and Government; Constitutions

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%) European Union

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (56%) Craig S Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (89%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe; Germany ; France

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



463 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 763 words

PERSON: Donald Szantho Harrington 

HEADLINE: Donald S. Harrington, 91, Liberal Crusader 

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
The Rev. Dr. Donald S. Harrington, a Unitarian minister who crusaded for social justice and was the public face of New York's Liberal Party in its heyday as a candidate for public office and its titular state chairman, died on Friday in Romania. He was 91.
 His death was announced by the Community Church of New York, the Unitarian Universalist congregation, where he began preaching in 1944 and had been minister emeritus since his retirement as senior minister in 1982. His successor, the Rev. Bruce Southworth, said Dr. Harrington had never fully recovered from gall bladder surgery last spring in Romania, where he worked with his wife, also a Unitarian minister. 
Dr. Harrington was an apostle of liberalism from the pulpit of the interfaith, interracial congregation he helped build on East 35th Street in Manhattan. But it was through his commitment to the Liberal Party and his support for its candidates, including John V. Lindsay, Charles E. Goodell, Jacob K. Javits, Hugh L. Carey and Mario M. Cuomo, that he was afforded a loftier platform. 
 He was Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr.'s running mate for lieutenant governor in 1966 -- a ticket that split the Democrats and all but guaranteed the re-election of Nelson A. Rockefeller, the incumbent Republican governor. Four years later, Dr. Harrington briefly ran for governor on the Liberal line before deferring to a Democrat, Arthur J. Goldberg. 
 But Dr. Harrington was widely regarded as a figurehead for Alex Rose, the hatters' union leader, who leveraged the tiny party for an ideological agenda as well as for patronage for faithful Liberals. Mr. Rose's title as one of several vice chairmen of the party belied the iron-fisted control he wielded through the velvet glove he bestowed on Dr. Harrington. That their relationship was so lopsided became apparent not long after Mr. Rose died in 1976. No longer satisfied with his behind-the-scenes role, Dr. Harrington sought to assert leadership.
 ''After 16 years as state chairman, a person might come to believe that he is the state chairman,'' Henry J. Stern, a Liberal member of the City Council from Manhattan, said at the time. Asked then who really headed the party, Mr. Stern, who was aligned with another faction and is now the state chairman himself, replied, ''The brain is dead, but the mouth lives on.''
 Dr. Harrington was rebuffed by Raymond B. Harding, another Rose acolyte, whose long march to unseat the Harrington faction succeeded in 1986. The party helped elect Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican, as mayor in 1993, but lost its automatic ballot line after the 2002 campaign for governor -- finally fulfilling the derisive appraisal by regular Democratic and Republican politicians that despite its idealistic cloak, it was, after all, neither liberal nor a party. 
 Donald Szantho Harrington hailed from an old New England family. He was born July 11, 1914, in Newton, Mass. After graduating from the University of Chicago, he was ordained in 1939 and served the People's Liberal Church on Chicago's South Side. That same year, he married a fellow seminary student, Vilma Szantho, who was said to be the first woman ordained to the Unitarian ministry in central Europe. He and Vilma Szantho had two children, Loni Hancock, who was mayor of Berkeley, Calif., and is now a California assemblywoman, and David Harrington, a surgical nurse in Santa Fe, N.M. 
 Dr. Harrington was among the founders of the American Committee for Africa, a prominent anti-apartheid organization, delivered a presidential nominating speech for Norman Thomas, the Socialist, in 1948 and was an early opponent of the war in Vietnam. In New York, he joined the Liberal Party, whose core was the Jewish trade unionists who split from the Communist-tinged American Labor Party and who preferred the public face of a non-Jew as chairman. Dr. Harrington succeeded Timothy J. Costello, who became a deputy mayor after Mr. Lindsay was elected in 1965. 
 Vilma Szantho died in 1982. In 1984, Dr. Harrington married her niece, Aniko Szantho, who was ordained a Unitarian minister in 1990. She served several village congregations in Transylvania, where Dr. Harrington remained active in economic development. 
 In addition to his daughter and son, Dr. Harrington is survived by five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. A memorial service is planned this fall at Community Church, where Dr. Harrington often preached a separation of church and state. 
 ''The Liberal Party is a religion for a lot of people,'' he once said, ''but I think religion has to be much deeper than that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald S. Harrington (Photo by John Sotomayor/The New York Times, 1989)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MAYORS (77%); RELIGION (71%); CITIES (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%) Deaths (Obituaries); Politics and Government; Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: UNITARIAN UNIVERSALIST ASSOCIATION OF CONGREGATIONS (59%) Unitarian Universalist Assn; Liberal Party (NYS)

RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ROMANIA (93%) New York State; New York City

CATEGORY: Religion

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



464 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: POLITICS IN AFGHANISTAN; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Electorate's Message: The Provinces Need Public Works and Restoration of Order

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL and SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
The winners and losers of the landmark Afghan elections on Sunday will remain a mystery for another several weeks, but whoever makes it to the legislature will quickly be tested against the universal axiom of parliamentary democracy: that all politics is local.
 With widespread frustration over the pace by which the central government in Kabul is distributing reconstruction aid to the provinces, diplomats and election observers said, the test of credibility for the new Parliament will be its ability to deliver on the peace dividend, from roads and bridges to law and order.
Speaking to reporters on Monday, the United States ambassador, Ronald E. Neumann, acknowledged that citizens' expectations for internationally financed reconstruction projects were running high, for everything from public works to a functional justice system.
 ''These expectations of the people will have to be met,'' Mr. Neumann said. ''What the election does is give the Afghan people a new channel to voice their opinions and demands.'' 
 He took pains to offer reassurance that the United States and other foreign donors would stay the course in Afghanistan's recovery. ''It's going to be long term,'' he said. ''This job is not done. For Afghanistan to be stable and peaceful, the international community is going to have to stay involved for a long time.''
 In the elections on Sunday, in which Afghans voted for a 249-seat lower house of Parliament and for 34 provincial councils, an estimated six million people voted. The turnout of a little over 50 percent was far lower than expected, election officials said. Results are expected by Oct. 22.
 The provincial councils and the president will in turn select members of the 51-seat upper house. Parliament is to convene in December.
 Mr. Neumann, as well as European election observers and Afghan election officials, insisted that despite threats from insurgents linked to the country's former Taliban rulers, violence was scattered and lower in intensity than had been feared.
 The chief of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, Jean Arnault, said that to maintain their credibility, the executive and legislative branches would have to answer to a public increasingly frustrated about the lack of visible improvements. 
 ''One of the very, very widespread complaints about reconstruction process today is where is the money going,'' Mr. Arnault said. ''There is a sense out there that resources are not fairly allocated.''
 An elected Parliament, he said, will prompt accountability on the part of President Hamid Karzai's administration and his international backers. 
 Likewise, a preliminary assessment of the reconstruction efforts, issued last week by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, based in Washington, found that while security had improved in the nearly four years since the American-led military overthrow of the Taliban, good governance, a working criminal justice system and economic development remained dangerously lacking. The report described the Karzai government as weak. 
 ''A broad foundation for success is being built, but too few needs have been met in Afghans' day-to-day-lives,'' the report said. ''The formal justice system in Afghanistan remains unable to confront impunity, adjudicate land disputes, unravel criminal networks or protect citizens' rights. Economic growth has been significant but uneven.''
 Peter Erben, the chief of the United Nations-assisted Joint Election Management Board, said Monday that the election turnout was satisfactory, considering that post-conflict elections usually begin with high participation and then level off. He gave the example of Bosnia, where he said turnout was about 70 percent in 1996, shortly after the end of the war there, only to drop to about 55 percent by 2002.
 In Afghanistan there were other explanations for the turnout beyond the threat of violence. Voters and election observers said the ballot was confusing, with voters in Kabul, for instance, having to sift through a list of roughly 400 parliamentary candidates to make their one selection. Some voters appeared not to understand the function of a Parliament, a weakness that critics attributed to weak civic education in the prelude to elections.
 More worrying was a creeping sense of disillusionment with the fairness of the democratic process.
 ''I thought it might be again the same spaghetti and the same plate,'' said Zubair Ahmed, 29, who is unemployed. He said he tore up his voting card after the election for president last October. ''There was no motive for voting again,'' he said. ''We expected a change after the presidential election, but nothing happened.''
 Humayoun, 24, a farmer from a village in the Shomali plain, just north of Kabul, said: ''Why we should bother to vote? The people in the Parliament are already selected. They come sealed and stamped from America, like Karzai.'' 
 Those who did turn out Sunday said they had come with hope that their choice for Parliament would bring their communities a greater share of reconstruction assistance.
 ''I'm hoping for security first, then roads, then education,'' said Muhammad Tahir, 45, a Kandahar shopkeeper.
 Nur Alam, 54, a farmer in a village north of Kabul, said, speaking of the newly elected officials: ''They should definitely do it for us, because they cannot sit on their chair and do nothing. Of course if they don't do anything, people will not vote for them the next time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An election worker carried a ballot box yesterday to a designated place in a United Nations compound in Herat where votes will be counted. (Photo by Behrouz Mehri/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%) Carlotta Gall; Somini Sengupta

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



465 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
FELDMAN, SANDRA

 BODY:
 FELDMAN - Sandra. Died September 19 after a courageous battle against breast cancer. Beloved wife of Arthur Barnes, sister of Larry Abramowitz and Helen Berliner, stepmother to David and Donna Marie Barnes, and grandmother to Alex and Tatum Barnes. She was also our leader, mentor, colleague and friend at the United Federation of Teachers. She was our president from 1986 to 1997, when she became president of our parent union, the American Federation of Teachers, and served until July, 2004. Her dream was always to improve society through education, labor, social justice and political action--and that is her legacy. Sitting at the feet of Bayard Rustin when she was 17, and later, under the tutelage of Albert Shanker, she learned about justice, civil rights, organizing, protests and, most of all, how improving public education can be a major force for social change. She pioneered a legion of programs such as Dial-A-Teacher and Teacher Centers to help students and teachers alike. Since February 2004, when Sandy found out she had a relapse, she fought mightily--as mightly as she always fought to help make a difference in our lives, and in the lives of the thousands of people we represent and the hundreds of thousands of children and others we serve. Those who knew her well know how hard she worked and how much she sacrificed so others would have social justice and economic opportunity. She was a giant and will be hugely missed. 
Randi Weingarten, President, and the 155,000 Members of the UFT 
 $(6$)FELDMAN--Sandra. We extend our deepest sympathy to our friend and colleague Arthur H. Barnes, Senior Vice President for External Affairs for HIP Health Plan, on the passing of his devoted and lovely wife, Sandy Feldman. Sandy was known nationally and internationally as past president of the American Federation of Teachers and past president of the United Federation of Teachers in New York City. Her high accomplishments won her universal accolades during a long and successful career and set an example for her successors. All of us who knew Sandy had a deep affection for her and high esteem for all that she accomplished. Anthony L. Watson Chairman & CEO, HIP Health Plan 
 $(6$)FELDMAN--Sandra. The officers, staff and members of the Jewish Labor Committee note with deep sadness the passing of Sandra Feldman, a former officer of our organization and a leading and inspiring trade unionist in New York, nationally and throughout the world. Her commitment to empowering working men and women made a difference for millions of workers. We extend our deepest condolences to her family, and to the members of the American Federation of Teachers. Stuart Appelbaum, President Avram B. Lyon, Executive Director Joel Shiller, Chair, Educators Chapter 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); CHILDREN (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); STEPPARENTS (73%); BREAST CANCER (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (58%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



466 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2077 words

HEADLINE: Many Women at Elite Colleges Set Career Path to Motherhood

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Cynthia Liu is precisely the kind of high achiever Yale wants: smart (1510 SAT), disciplined (4.0 grade point average), competitive (finalist in Texas oratory competition), musical (pianist), athletic (runner) and altruistic (hospital volunteer). And at the start of her sophomore year at Yale, Ms. Liu is full of ambition, planning to go to law school. 
 So will she join the long tradition of famous Ivy League graduates? Not likely. By the time she is 30, this accomplished 19-year-old expects to be a stay-at-home mom.
''My mother's always told me you can't be the best career woman and the best mother at the same time,'' Ms. Liu said matter-of-factly. ''You always have to choose one over the other.'' 
 At Yale and other top colleges, women are being groomed to take their place in an ever more diverse professional elite. It is almost taken for granted that, just as they make up half the students at these institutions, they will move into leadership roles on an equal basis with their male classmates. 
 There is just one problem with this scenario: many of these women say that is not what they want.
 Many women at the nation's most elite colleges say they have already decided that they will put aside their careers in favor of raising children. Though some of these students are not planning to have children and some hope to have a family and work full time, many others, like Ms. Liu, say they will happily play a traditional female role, with motherhood their main commitment.
 Much attention has been focused on career women who leave the work force to rear children. What seems to be changing is that while many women in college two or three decades ago expected to have full-time careers, their daughters, while still in college, say they have already decided to suspend or end their careers when they have children.
 ''At the height of the women's movement and shortly thereafter, women were much more firm in their expectation that they could somehow combine full-time work with child rearing,'' said Cynthia E. Russett, a professor of American history who has taught at Yale since 1967. ''The women today are, in effect, turning realistic.''
 Dr. Russett is among more than a dozen faculty members and administrators at the most exclusive institutions who have been on campus for decades and who said in interviews that they had noticed the changing attitude. 
 Many students say staying home is not a shocking idea among their friends. Shannon Flynn, an 18-year-old from Guilford, Conn., who is a freshman at Harvard, says many of her girlfriends do not want to work full time. 
 ''Most probably do feel like me, maybe even tending toward wanting to not work at all,'' said Ms. Flynn, who plans to work part time after having children, though she is torn because she has worked so hard in school. 
 ''Men really aren't put in that position,'' she said.
 Uzezi Abugo, a freshman at the University of Pennsylvania who hopes to become a lawyer, says she, too, wants to be home with her children at least until they are in school. 
 ''I've seen the difference between kids who did have their mother stay at home and kids who didn't, and it's kind of like an obvious difference when you look at it,'' said Ms. Abugo, whose mother, a nurse, stayed home until Ms. Abugo was in first grade. 
 While the changing attitudes are difficult to quantify, the shift emerges repeatedly in interviews with Ivy League students, including 138 freshman and senior females at Yale who replied to e-mail questions sent to members of two residential colleges over the last school year. 
 The interviews found that 85 of the students, or roughly 60 percent, said that when they had children, they planned to cut back on work or stop working entirely. About half of those women said they planned to work part time, and about half wanted to stop work for at least a few years.
 Two of the women interviewed said they expected their husbands to stay home with the children while they pursued their careers. Two others said either they or their husbands would stay home, depending on whose career was furthest along.
 The women said that pursuing a rigorous college education was worth the time and money because it would help position them to work in meaningful part-time jobs when their children are young or to attain good jobs when their children leave home.
 In recent years, elite colleges have emphasized the important roles they expect their alumni -- both men and women -- to play in society. 
 For example, earlier this month, Shirley M. Tilghman, the president of Princeton University, welcomed new freshmen, saying: ''The goal of a Princeton education is to prepare young men and women to take up positions of leadership in the 21st century. Of course, the word 'leadership' conjures up images of presidents and C.E.O.'s, but I want to stress that my idea of a leader is much broader than that.'' 
 She listed education, medicine and engineering as other areas where students could become leaders.
 In an e-mail response to a question, Dr. Tilghman added: ''There is nothing inconsistent with being a leader and a stay-at-home parent. Some women (and a handful of men) whom I have known who have done this have had a powerful impact on their communities.''
 Yet the likelihood that so many young women plan to opt out of high-powered careers presents a conundrum.
 ''It really does raise this question for all of us and for the country: when we work so hard to open academics and other opportunities for women, what kind of return do we expect to get for that?'' said Marlyn McGrath Lewis, director of undergraduate admissions at Harvard, who served as dean for coeducation in the late 1970's and early 1980's. 
 It is a complicated issue and one that most schools have not addressed. The women they are counting on to lead society are likely to marry men who will make enough money to give them a real choice about whether to be full-time mothers, unlike those women who must work out of economic necessity.
 It is less than clear what universities should, or could, do about it. For one, a person's expectations at age 18 are less than perfect predictors of their life choices 10 years later. And in any case, admissions officers are not likely to ask applicants whether they plan to become stay-at-home moms.
 University officials said that success meant different things to different people and that universities were trying to broaden students' minds, not simply prepare them for jobs. 
 ''What does concern me,'' said Peter Salovey, the dean of Yale College, ''is that so few students seem to be able to think outside the box; so few students seem to be able to imagine a life for themselves that isn't constructed along traditional gender roles.''
 There is, of course, nothing new about women being more likely than men to stay home to rear children. 
 According to a 2000 survey of Yale alumni from the classes of 1979, 1984, 1989 and 1994, conducted by the Yale Office of Institutional Research, more men from each of those classes than women said that work was their primary activity -- a gap that was small among alumni in their 20's but widened as women moved into their prime child-rearing years. Among the alumni surveyed who had reached their 40's, only 56 percent of the women still worked, compared with 90 percent of the men. 
 A 2005 study of comparable Yale alumni classes found that the pattern had not changed. Among the alumni who had reached their early 40's, just over half said work was their primary activity, compared with 90 percent of the men. Among the women who had reached their late 40's, some said they had returned to work, but the percentage of women workingwas still far behind the percentage of men. 
 A 2001 survey of Harvard Business School graduates found that 31 percent of the women from the classes of 1981, 1985 and 1991 who answered the survey worked only part time or on contract, and another 31 percent did not work at all, levels strikingly similar to the percentages of the Yale students interviewed who predicted they would stay at home or work part time in their 30's and 40's.
 What seems new is that while many of their mothers expected to have hard-charging careers, then scaled back their professional plans only after having children, the women of this generation expect their careers to take second place to child rearing. 
 ''It never occurred to me,'' Rebecca W. Bushnell, dean of the School of Arts and Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania, said about working versus raising children. ''Thirty years ago when I was heading out, I guess I was just taking it one step at a time.''
 Dr. Bushnell said young women today, in contrast, are thinking and talking about part-time or flexible work options for when they have children. ''People have a heightened awareness of trying to get the right balance between work and family.'' 
 Sarah Currie, a senior at Harvard, said many of the men in her American Family class last fall approved of women's plans to stay home with their children.
 ''A lot of the guys were like, 'I think that's really great,''' Ms. Currie said. ''One of the guys was like, 'I think that's sexy.' Staying at home with your children isn't as polarizing of an issue as I envision it is for women who are in their 30's now.''
 For most of the young women who responded to e-mail questions, a major factor shaping their attitudes seemed to be their experience with their own mothers, about three out of five of whom did not work at all, took several years off or worked only part time.
 ''My stepmom's very proud of my choice because it makes her feel more valuable,'' said Kellie Zesch, a Texan who graduated from the University of North Carolina two years ago and who said that once she had children, she intended to stay home for at least five years and then consider working part time. ''It justified it to her, that I don't look down on her for not having a career.''
 Similarly, students who are committed to full-time careers, without breaks, also cited their mothers as influences. Laura Sullivan, a sophomore at Yale who wants to be a lawyer, called her mother's choice to work full time the ''greatest gift.'' 
 ''She showed me what it meant to be an amazing mother and maintain a career,'' Ms. Sullivan said.
 Some of these women's mothers, who said they did not think about these issues so early in their lives, said they were surprised to hear that their college-age daughters had already formed their plans. 
 Emily Lechner, one of Ms. Liu's roommates, hopes to stay home a few years, then work part time as a lawyer once her children are in school.
 Her mother, Carol, who once thought she would have a full-time career but gave it up when her children were born, was pleasantly surprised to hear that. ''I do have this bias that the parents can do it best,'' she said. ''I see a lot of women in their 30's who have full-time nannies, and I just question if their kids are getting the best.''
 For many feminists, it may come as a shock to hear how unbothered many young women at the nation's top schools are by the strictures of traditional roles.
 ''They are still thinking of this as a private issue; they're accepting it,'' said Laura Wexler, a professor of American studies and women's and gender studies at Yale. ''Women have been given full-time working career opportunities and encouragement with no social changes to support it.
 ''I really believed 25 years ago,'' Dr. Wexler added, ''that this would be solved by now.'' 
 Angie Ku, another of Ms. Liu's roommates who had a stay-at-home mom, talks nonchalantly about attending law or business school, having perhaps a 10-year career and then staying home with her children. 
 ''Parents have such an influence on their children,'' Ms. Ku said. ''I want to have that influence. Me!''
 She said she did not mind if that limited her career potential.
 ''I'll have a career until I have two kids,'' she said. ''It doesn't necessarily matter how far you get. It's kind of like the experience: I have tried what I wanted to do.''
 Ms. Ku added that she did not think it was a problem that women usually do most of the work raising kids.
 ''I accept things how they are,'' she said. ''I don't mind the status quo. I don't see why I have to go against it.''
 After all, she added, those roles got her where she is.
 ''It worked so well for me,'' she said, ''and I don't see in my life why it wouldn't work.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily Lechner, at home in North Potomac, Md., with her mother, Carol, is a student at Yale who plans to become a lawyer, but who says her career will take a back seat once she starts having children. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (88%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (88%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); HISTORY (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005



467 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: The Slow Flow of Russian Oil

BYLINE: By ANDREW KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
For five years, the managers of Russia's richest oil fields in western Siberia increased output by 14 percent annually, overcoming decades of Soviet neglect by repairing leaks, replacing pumps and charting better geological maps. 
 But then it stopped. In the year since Yuganskneftegas, the main production unit of the Yukos oil company, was effectively nationalized in December 2004, it will ship the same amount of crude oil, 385 million barrels, that it did in 2004, according to the new owner's projections, even as prices shot up in 2005 and the global supply of oil remained extremely tight.
The fields straddle five of western Siberia's best-producing reserves. The state-controlled oil and gas company Rosneft won them in January after the authorities took control of Yuganskneftegas, officially as part payment for a $28 billion tax claim against Yukos, then Russia's largest private oil company. 
 The takeover has been regarded as a critical juncture in President Vladimir V. Putin's policy of imposing Kremlin control over oil and natural gas, a policy that has produced a partial renationalization of the industry, one of the world's largest energy suppliers. (Until late 1991, under the Soviet Union's command economy, the energy industries -- and virtually all others -- were state-owned.) 
 The recent halt in growth at Yuganskneftegas comes as an ominous sign that Russia has mismanaged the nationalization, analysts and industry insiders say.
 ''Russia has to show that it's not just a big energy partner but a potentially much bigger energy partner, particularly to the United States,'' Christopher Weafer, chief strategist at Alfa Bank, said.
 In another sign of the government's sway over the oil industry, the country's largest crude oil producers agreed Monday at a meeting with the minister of industry and energy, Viktor B. Khristenko, to freeze domestic gasoline prices until the end of the year, the Interfax news agency reported. The decision reflected popular pressure on Mr. Putin's government as gasoline prices rose to around $2.52 a gallon, not far from American levels, on the heels of high crude oil prices. Farmers protested in one Siberian region. 
 A cap on domestic gasoline prices meets the goals of the government to please the public, rather than those of oil companies seeking to maximize profits. 
 The troubles at Yuganskneftegas come as Gazprom, the giant state-controlled energy company, is poised to buy the privately held Sibneft, Russia's fifth-largest oil producer with more than 900,000 barrels a day, from Roman Abramovich, a Russian tycoon based in London. The deal could raise the Kremlin's control to one-quarter of all Russian oil production, according to 2004 production figures.
 Rosneft attributed the leveling off of output at Yuganskneftegas to turmoil there during the takeover and to earlier mismanagement under Yukos. The slowing of production also stems from pipeline bottlenecks and high taxes across the industry, according to Rosneft. 
 Whatever the causes, it threatens to undermine Russia's efforts to reinvent its energy companies as major international oil producers. That kind of transformation would depend on their ability to deliver energy as promised.
 Industrywide, production growth is forecast at 3 percent this year compared with a five-year average of 7.8 percent. It will remain at this level until Russia builds additional pipelines, Mr. Weafer said..
 The stakes are high. By some rankings, Russia is the world's second-largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia. Energy ministry projections cited by the United States Energy Department show crude oil exports rising possibly to 5.5 million barrels a day this year, from 5.14 million barrels in 2004, and reaching 6.2 million barrels a day by 2015. 
 Most Russian oil is now exported to Europe. But by 2010, Russia is expected to export energy directly to the United States. Oil could be shipped to the West Coast from offshore fields near Sakhalin Island and oil and gas to the East Coast from the Arctic. 
 Indeed, Russia's potential as an energy exporter was a theme Mr. Putin raised during a joint news conference with President Bush in Washington last Friday. ''We see huge possibilities for further increasing economic cooperation in the energy sector,'' Mr. Putin said. ''We discussed all this in detail.'' 
 But the credibility that Russia builds up among energy experts depends on its ability to increase production and improve efficiency. 
 ''When a thief steals your car, he doesn't immediately know how to drive it,'' said Aleksandr V. Shadrin, a spokesman for Yukos, the west Siberian fields' former owner. ''Rosneft stole our stock. Until they figure out how to use it, it will be a mess.'' 
 Political meddling with the emerging Russian oil companies could trip up production gains, as nationalized companies revert to being vehicles for patronage or corruption, Mr. Shadrin said. 
 Sergei V. Kupriyanov, a spokesman for Gazprom, brushed aside charges of inefficiency. He said his company planned to compensate managers with stock options. That and the removal of restrictions on foreign ownership of Gazprom stock, expected early next year, he said, would improve corporate governance. 
 Rosneft attributed the leveling off of production growth at Yuganskneftegas to Yukos's failure to maintain equipment and to turmoil in management during the ownership change. It said Yukos had damaged the fields by overproducing and it reduced output this year to fix the problems. Rosneft declined to specify how the fields were damaged.
 Carl Granger, a Houston-based oil engineer who worked on the fields in 2002 under contract with Yukos, offered a different picture. Under Yukos, he said, engineers ramped up production by replacing Soviet-era pumps, tweaking controls and clearing out older wells, spending money and buying foreign equipment as needed. The production unit also developed a new field, accounting for a spike in production. 
 ''The potential was incredibly high compared to what was done before,'' Mr. Granger said of the underperforming old rigs dotting the taiga in western Siberia. ''There are still thousands of wells like that out there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: With improvements, equipment at Yuganskneftegas oil facilities in Siberia may be put to more effective use. (Photo by Sergei Karpukhun/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONALIZATION (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Nationalization of Industry; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Reserves (Natural Resources); International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (84%); OAO GAZPROM (62%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Yukos (Russian Co); Rosneft; Yuganskneftegaz (Russian Co)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (62%); GAZP (RTS) (62%); ROSN (RTS) (56%); ROSN (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (62%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (62%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (62%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (62%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (62%)

PERSON: VIKTOR KHRISTENKO (58%); ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Andrew Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



468 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; DIVERSIFYING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Taking Minority-Owned Businesses Under Their Wing

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
FOUR years ago, Group O Direct, which handles rebates and other fulfillment aspects of customer promotions, was a $4 million-a-year company that barely turned a profit. Michael J. De La Cruz, its vice president for sales and marketing, said that bigotry -- the company is owned by Mexican-Americans -- accounted for some of the problem. But the bigger part was that Group O Direct, though it had been around since 1974, did not know how to navigate corporate shoals. 
 Then, in 2001, SBC Communications, seeking more minority vendors, took Group O Direct, in Milan, Ill., under its wing. ''They led us through their procurement process, what certifications we needed, how to write a bid, who to contact, how to set prices,'' Mr. De La Cruz said. SBC then gave Group O Direct a small contract. A few years later, the Microsoft Corporation helped Group O Direct further ''enhance and refine our business processes,'' as Mr. De La Cruz put it, then gave the company a contract, too. One result is that Group O Direct's revenues will probably exceed $50 million this year.
Many minority suppliers tell similar tales. The same mainstream corporations that have spent decades trying to increase workplace diversity are now making similar efforts diversifying their supplier bases. Few are setting quotas, but most are taking their procurement people to task if they do not seem to try. 
 ''The general rule here is, if all other things are equal, pick the minority company,'' said G. Winston Smith, director of supplier diversity at Microsoft, which spends about 5 percent of its $10 billion annual procurement budget with minority companies.
 That rule is prevailing at more companies, and the demographics explain why. Members of racial and ethnic minorities already outnumber whites in Texas, California, New Mexico and Hawaii, and they make up 40 percent of the population in Maryland, Mississippi, Georgia, New York and Arizona. The Census Bureau projects that by 2050, at least half the population will be nonwhite.
 That means that half the consumers will be nonwhite. ''We have to change the perception that baseball is not welcoming to minorities if we are going to keep our stadium stands filled,'' said Wendy Lewis, vice president for strategic planning for recruitment and diversity in Major League Baseball's office of the commissioner, which keeps a directory of minority businesses that local ball clubs can use to find suppliers for products as diverse as coffee and uniforms. Similar thinking went into the Gillette Company's decision to start a supplier program in 2002. ''Minority suppliers create jobs, and that increases income in their communities,'' said Sonia J. Myles, Gillette's director of global indirect materials.
 Minority business advocates know that economics, not philanthropy, is driving the programs. ''This is not newfound religion,'' said Harriet R. Michel, president of the Minority Supplier Development Council, which matches minority businesses with corporate customers. ''Corporate America is realizing that black and brown people are educated, can run businesses and have money to spend and to invest.'' 
 But many do not yet have an understanding of corporate America. While minority-owned companies are proliferating -- from 1997 through 2002, the number of businesses owned by minorities grew at more than double the national average for businesses overall -- many are small and technologically unsophisticated. And many are bidding against suppliers who learned long ago how to meet a company's needs. 
 ''The average black or Latino businessperson still starts out with fewer contacts, less access to capital and less financial literacy than the average white person,'' said Lucas J. Visconti, co-founder of DiversityInc, a business magazine. But, he said, ''there's a growing list of corporations that are aggressively helping them catch up.'' 
 Indeed, minority supplier development programs, popular in the socially conscious 1970's, are again moving from exception to rule among Fortune 500 corporations. Unlike the earlier versions, the current programs rarely incorporate lower standards, loan or contract guarantees, or cash grants. Instead, they provide introductions, as well as technological and cultural training, aimed at enabling minority suppliers to win contracts and loans on merit. 
 ''Give them a chance, and minority suppliers will outperform the general population in cost savings, quality and delivery,'' said Dan Robinson, manager of global purchasing and market access at the Xerox Corporation. Minority suppliers say such recognition is overdue. ''I deliver quality and service, and the fact that I was born of African-American parents has nothing to do with that,'' said Walter Hill Jr., president of Icon Blue Inc., a Los Angeles company with annual revenue of $10 million that provides promotional products.
 Corporations are spreading that gospel. Many keep databases of minority businesses that are accessible to purchasing people at far-flung locations. Many are depositing money with banks that make loans to minority businesses, or visiting venture capitalists to explain why the minority business would be a good investment. 
 Many are even throwing rivalries aside. Mr. Hill noted that American Honda Motor is an Icon Blue customer; he was introduced to Honda by people at Toyota. Similarly, Hilton and Marriott often share information about minority suppliers. 
 Many companies are installing Tier 2 programs, in which their primary suppliers must prove that they are parceling out work to minorities. In fact, many are asking that those suppliers join forces with minority companies that might not have the capacity to handle full contracts. 
 I.B.M. singles out 10 or so minority companies each year. One chosen this year was the SpringBoard Technology Corporation, a company in Springfield, Mass., that handles computer storage and repair. Anthony F. Dolphin, the company's chairman, said that I.B.M. helped SpringBoard ''bridge gaps in capabilities.'' SpringBoard, with annual revenue of $15 million, is talking to two suppliers about jointly bidding for business. 
 Many corporations, heartened by their success in working with existing companies, are even trying to entice minorities to businesses they have traditionally shunned. Hilton, for example, sees ''no reason we shouldn't have more minorities among our franchisees,'' said Floyd W. Pitts, senior director for diversity programs. So the chain offers free ''hospitality 101'' seminars to familiarize minorities with running hotels. Hilton has also been working with historically black colleges to bolster their hospitality programs, and to help them build hotels on their own land. 
 At Xerox, Mr. Robinson is trying to engineer an alliance between a small African-American-owned company and a large insurance company. His plan: Xerox would give the minority company a contract to provide health and retirement benefits and the minority company would subcontract some of the business to the larger company. ''An alliance can give the minority supplier the economy of scale to provide the low costs we insist on,'' he said.
 It is rarely so straightforward. For one, there are psychological barriers to alliances that have nothing to do with race. ''These are entrepreneurs, remember, and they want to control their own destiny,'' Ms. Michel said. For another, some businesses require far too much capital outlay to attract newcomers of any race or ethnicity. Procter & Gamble, which will spend $1.4 billion with minority suppliers this year, says it is unable to find a minority-owned pulp and paper business. ''We're still looking, but it's confounding us,'' said Richard A. Hughes,the company's vice president for global purchases. 
 Joint ventures can also dissolve. For two years, Procter bought packaging items from a venture between a minority and majority company. When the larger company's chief retired, the venture broke up, and Procter buys less from the minority supplier. ''It provides a quality product, but it does not have the scale to innovate on its own,'' said Icy L. Williams, associate director for corporate supplier diversity at Procter. 
 Still, Procter and others keep trying. ''We will keep looking across all of our product lines to identify areas that are not currently serviced by minority suppliers, and we will put together relationships, strategic partnerships and other deals to help them enter,'' Mr. Hughes said. 
 So will I.B.M. About $1.6 billion of the $15 billion it spent last year went to minority-owned businesses, ''and my goal is to become the first technology company to spend $2 billion,'' said Theo W. Fletcher, I.B.M.'s vice president for supply-chain compliance, security and diversity. Why? ''As these businesses grow, they will become our customers,'' he said. ''And we want a supplier base that looks a lot like our customer base.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: GROWING -- Anthony Dolphin, center, chairman of the SpringBoard Technology Corporation, a minority-owned company, speaks with Dorothy Palmer, left, while Serge Bondarenko refurbishes a computer. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (95%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); SALES PROMOTIONS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); BASEBALL (88%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); RACE & RACISM (70%); ETHNICITY (70%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); CENSUS (65%); JOB CREATION (60%) Small Business; Affirmative Action; Blacks; Minorities (US)

COMPANY: GROUP O DIRECT INC (90%); AT&T INC (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (83%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (80%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); PGP (PAR) (80%); PG (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (80%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (80%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (80%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



469 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-KOREAN DEAL ON ARMS LEAVES KEY POINTS OPEN

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN and DAVID E. SANGER; Joseph Kahn reported from Beijing for this article, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
After a tense weekend of heated debate within the Bush administration, the lead American negotiator with North Korea made one last call to Washington at noon on Monday, Beijing time, and then signed a statement of principles that committed North Korea, in black and white, to give up ''all nuclear weapons and existing nuclear programs.''
 But the negotiator, Christopher Hill, had misgivings because the vaguely worded agreement left unaddressed the date disarmament would happen, and hinted at a concession to North Korea that President Bush and his aides had long said they would never agree to: discussing at an appropriate time providing North Korea with a civilian nuclear power plant, senior administration officials said.
 The plant, a light-water reactor, cannot produce fuel for nuclear bombs as efficiently as North Korea's existing nuclear plants, but would keep the country in the nuclear business.
 All day Monday, Washington time, the Bush administration said the only appropriate time would be well after North Korea dismantled all its nuclear facilities and allowed highly intrusive inspections of the country. On Monday evening, less than 24 hours after the deal was signed, North Korea declared that the United States ''should not even dream'' that it would dismantle its nuclear weapons before it receives a new nuclear plant. 
 As described by senior Bush administration officials and Asian participants in the talks, Mr. Bush agreed to eventual discussions on providing a nuclear plant only after China turned over a draft of an agreement and told the Americans they had hours to decide whether to take it or leave it.
 The North Koreans, dependent on China for food and oil, were unhappy but ready to sign. ''They said, 'Here's the text, and we're not going to change it, and we suggest you don't walk away,''' said one senior American official at the center of the debate. 
 Several officials, who would not allow their names to be used because they did not want to publicly discuss Mr. Bush's political challenges, noted that Mr. Bush is tied down in Iraq, consumed by Hurricane Katrina, and headed into another standoff over Iran's nuclear program. The agreement, they said, provides him with a way to forestall, at least for now, a confrontation with another member of what he once famously termed ''the axis of evil.'' 
 So after two days of debates that reached from Mr. Bush's cabin in Camp David to Condoleezza Rice's suite at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York to Tokyo, Moscow and Seoul, Mr. Bush gave the go-ahead on Sunday evening, once he had returned to the White House, to signing a preliminary accord with Kim Jong Il, a leader he has said he detests. 
 Had he decided to let the deal fall through, participants in the talks from several countries said, China was prepared to blame the United States for missing a chance to bring a diplomatic end to the confrontation.
 The debate over signing the agreement reflected the fact that the North Koreans drove a tough bargain. The agreement has the potential to generate good will for North Korea, increase the aid it receives and possibly reduce its incentive to dismantle its nuclear programs anytime soon. 
 ''The risk of this agreement is exactly what many hawks in Washington had warned about,'' said Peter Beck of the International Crisis Group in Seoul. ''You reduce the sense of urgency and let people grow comfortable with the status quo.''
 Proponents of the deal say such fears are misplaced. They argue that the six-nation talks, involving China, Russia, South Korea and Japan as well as North Korea and the United States, exerted heavy pressure on the North to adhere to international norms. 
 All the benefits North Korea was promised in the agreement, including economic aid, security commitments, a possible normalization of relations with the United States, and a large infusion of electricity from South Korea, will not flow until it rejoins the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and readmits international nuclear inspectors.
 In the end, participants in the discussions said, Mr. Bush decided he had little choice but to sign. He concluded several years ago that there were no acceptable military options for taking out the North's two separate nuclear programs.
 Mr. Bush sounded cautious about it on Monday after a meeting in the Cabinet Room. ''Now there is a way forward,'' he said. ''They have said, in principle, that they will abandon their weapons programs. And what we have said is great, that's a wonderful step forward, but now we've got to verify whether or not that happens.'' 
 His caution may reflect the fact that the accord, the culmination of two years of difficult negotiation, still left the administration short of its goal, requiring two major concessions that will take months, maybe years, to fully resolve.
 The accord makes no mention of the Bush administration's contention that North Korea has a secret, underground program to use enriched uranium to produce nuclear bomb fuel. North Korea has denied trying to produce nuclear fuel through enriched uranium, though it has acknowledged using plutonium from its nuclear reactor at Yongbyon for that purpose.
 A nuclear program that depends on enriched uranium, like the one that made Pakistan a nuclear power, is much harder to monitor than a plutonium program.
 Intelligence assessments, partly based on information from Seoul, that North Korea was building a secret uranium program were the basis of the administration's declaration in 2002 that North Korea had violated the terms of a 1994 agreement with the Clinton administration to end its nuclear efforts. That began the standoff that prompted North Korea to withdraw from the nonproliferation treaty, expel international inspectors, restart its reactor at Yongbyon, and claim that it had expanded its arsenal of atomic bombs. Intelligence agencies say North Korea may now have fuel for six or eight weapons, but that is an educated guess, they concede.
 Despite that history, the new agreement does not explicitly address the existence of a uranium program. North Korea still denies having one, despite growing evidence that it at least tried to develop bomb fuel that way with Pakistan's help.
 A senior administration official said the uranium program was covered by the agreement because it required North Korea to dismantle all of its existing nuclear facilities, not specific plants or labs. But the accord did not require North Korea to own up to what the administration had described as its biggest deception, meaning that unless the North admits to the program in a declaration of all its nuclear facilities, inspectors would have to work to uncover the uranium program in an adversarial way down the road.
 The second concession involved the North Korean demand that it receive a light-water nuclear reactor as a down payment for scrapping its weapons program. 
 Allowing North Korea to have a light-water reactor raises what for the Bush administration are unwelcome parallels with the 1994 Clinton administration agreement, which several administration officials, including Ms. Rice, had described as deeply flawed. The 1994 accord promised North Korea two light-water reactors in exchange for freezing its nuclear program. Construction on a site for the reactors began in the 1990's, but the reactors were never delivered. The United States said Monday that the consortium that provided those reactors would go out of business at the end of the year, meaning any new deal would have to begin from scratch.
 Mr. Hill, in an interview, said that the administration ''didn't want to see any mention'' ofproviding North Korea with a light-water reactor in the statement of principles. But the Chinese included it. The United States also balked at the use of the vague term ''appropriate'' to describe the timing. South Korea, Russia and China were happy to accept that language, because it left open the question of when the North would receive the nuclear reactor, officials of several countries said. 
 To break the impasse, Ms. Rice came up with a compromise during meetings on Saturday afternoon with her South Korean and Japanese counterparts. Each country, she suggested, would issue separate statements describing their understanding of the deal, with a specificity that is not in the agreement itself. The South Koreans and Japanese went along with the idea, though South Korea, one official said, complained that it would ''sour the atmosphere.'' Russia and China issued vaguer statements that left unclear the sequence of events.
 As this unfolded over the weekend, the Chinese increased pressure on the United States to sign -- or take responsibility for a breakdown in the talks.
 ''At one point they told us that we were totally isolated on this and that they would go to the press,'' and explain that the United States sank the accord, the senior administration official said.
 In the end, it was not necessary. The American delegation surprised some of the other parties on Monday morning with word that it could accept the agreement, sealing a deal.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The chief North Korean negotiator, Kim Gye Gwan, center, at the close of nuclear talks yesterday in Beijing. (Pool photo by Ng Han Guan)
 Christopher Hill, the leading negotiator for the United States, called the agreement with North Korea over nuclear facilities a turning point. (Photo by Claro Cortes IV/Reuters)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



470 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: POWER BROKER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: From Oil Refinery, Directing Parish's Efforts to Recover

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: ST. BERNARD PARISH, La., Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Since Hurricane Katrina emptied St. Bernard Parish of residents and filled it with water, Henry J. Rodriguez Jr., the canny, profane parish president known to his constituents as Junior, has become a politician without a clear polity, yet with more power and money than ever.
 Generals stop by his improvised headquarters in a refinery to make sure he has what he needs. Lieutenant colonels wait on his orders, calling him ''Junior'' or ''boss.'' Marines who worked to rebuild the Falluja, Iraq, are applying their lessons here. Officials from the Agency for International Development have come to see where foreign aid should go. Last Monday, President Bush paid him a visit. 
''I goosed him,'' Mr. Rodriguez said, raising the rubber-tipped cane he uses to administer this favorite gesture of affection. ''He put his arm around me and said, 'You and I are going to play poker together some day.''' He paused, then added slyly, ''I don't mind getting some of that Texas money.'' 
 Although he appreciates the help, Mr. Rodriguez, 69, is livid over what he considers a glacial response by the state and federal governments, particularly the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Besides the Coast Guard, he said, the first outsiders on the scene were 50 Canadian Mounties from Vancouver.
 Mr. Rodriguez insists that he no longer uses a particular obscenity, though in fact he does, in various forms. ''I just say, 'Go FEMA yourself.' That's a dirty enough word.''
 Mr. Rodriguez estimates that three-fourths of the more than 25,000 houses in the parish may have to be leveled. ''We'll be rebuilding the parish for the next 10 years,'' he said.
 After a gall bladder operation went awry and then he developed heart trouble, Mr. Rodriguez spent 46 days in intensive care, emerging about a month before the storm hit. He never left the parish. At the government offices with his wife, Evelyn, and some members of the parish council he evaded the water by climbing to an upper floor and then, after a couple of days, escaping in a boat. His own house was submerged.
 Since then, with his cane and snakeskin belt, he has ruled from the refinery and slept there. With that example, parish workers and contractors who lost almost everything are working hard and bantering hard, though some have a way, if you inquire too deeply into how they are doing, of bursting into tears.
 ''He was a rock,'' said Capt. David R. Pine of the Shreveport, a 567-foot amphibious assault ship docked on the Mississippi. The Shreveport is serving as a hotel and mess hall for emergency workers, and Captain Pine is dispatching his men to clear debris and perform other tasks. 
 Elected president in 2003 after holding various positions in the parish for almost 30 years, Mr. Rodriguez has white hair, a hawk nose and a throat and a stomach that bulge and sag like a lava flow. He made himself an expert on coastal erosion and, seeking federal help, warned well before Hurricane Katrina of the flooding risks faced by his parish. 
 He also cultivates an image of lechery. Of one female constituent, he asked, ''How's your fine daughter, with the big boobs?'' 
 He has a reputation for making racist remarks. On Friday, before he realized a reporter was in his cluttered, chaotic office, he was heard to use a slur for blacks. He did so in saying that many have the same names, drawing a comparison with the 90 German experts who are helping ''de-water'' the parish, who, he said, are ''all called 'Klaus.'''
 Marines have been going to every house, closing the main water valve to each so the water company can locate breaks. Mr. Rodriguez just put out a contract worth $122 million to clean the streets of mud. The parish's annual budget is $57 million, and its tax base is gone. ''It's FEMA money,'' he said.
 Few buildings and even fewer lives here were untouched by the storm. On Saturday, the parish began letting residents return to select neighborhoods to salvage belongings. As Arthur Stearns, 56, helped a daughter take possessions from her house, he described a wall of water that overwhelmed him, his wife and their son when they stayed behind.
 His son survived, but he was certain that his wife, Marion, drowned. After almost three weeks, he still did not know where her body was. He had not been allowed to check his own house, in an area contaminated by an oil spill. He stopped a passing sheriff's deputy to ask, ''Is all the bodies out of St. Bernard Parish?'' The officer said that search teams had been going door to door. ''She should be out of here by now,'' Mr. Stearns said, almost to himself.
 ''Who?'' the officer asked.
 ''My wife,'' Mr. Stearns said. ''I lost my wife.''
 At the emergency headquarters on Saturday, Larry J. Ingargiola, director of the parish's office for emergency preparedness, expressed doubts about the safety of letting residents visit so soon. [On Monday, the state ordered a halt to the program, citing the approach of Tropical Storm Rita, according to the parish Web site.] Mr. Ingargiola urged Mr. Rodriguez to call the State Department of Environmental Quality, believing that it would persuade him to suspend the program. 
 The ensuing performance on Mr. Rodriguez's end of the line was a master class in political sumo wrestling. He started out circling, saying of his parish, ''We in pretty good shape, for the shape we in.''
 Then he charged. ''What's all this I hear about shutting us down?'' he demanded. ''I see no reason to believe we don't have an excellent re-entry program. Have you seen it? Have you read the document?''
 He said the Environmental Protection Agency had informed him that its testing showed the parish not too badly contaminated. 
 He repeatedly mocked the officials for remaining in Baton Rouge. ''Don't take anything personal that I'm telling y'all.''
 He finally exploded, saying he wanted to talk to them face to face. 
 With a sweet ''O.K., baby,'' Mr. Rodriguez reached out to hang up. As the handset traveled toward its base, a tinny voice could be heard trying to get in a word from Baton Rouge. For now, Mr. Rodriguez's dispersed constituents would continue to revisit their homes, maybe for the last time.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry J. Rodriguez Jr., the president of St. Bernard Parish, is overseeing recovery efforts from emergency headquarters at an oil refinery.
 Joyce Scott got help from her brother, George Couvillion, in gathering possessions from her home in St. Bernard Parish, one of the hardest hit areas. (Photographs by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); WEATHER (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (82%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%) Federal Emergency Management Agency 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) James Bennet; Henry J Jr Rodriquez

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (54%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); CANADA (75%) St Bernard Parish (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



471 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: NASA's Back-to-the-Future Plans

 BODY:
NASA has finally unveiled its plans for carrying out the ambitious space exploration program that was announced by President Bush in January 2004 but left vague and undefined ever since. The proposed new space vehicles look like a sensible way to put astronauts and cargo into space after the shuttle fleet is retired and will be built to facilitate landings on both the Moon and Mars. Michael Griffin, the new administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, deserves credit for putting real flesh on what had been little more than an aspiration. Unfortunately, the new plan lacks the pizzazz to inspire public support and will be operating under budget constraints that make delays or overruns likely. 
 The new crew exploration vehicle will be built around well-known space technologies, with booster rockets and engines derived from the shuttle program and a crew capsule like the one used in the lunar program, only bigger. That has the great advantage of letting NASA use much of its current shuttle work force on the new program and the great disadvantage of making the technology look retrograde. This approach will not excite those looking for cutting-edge hardware, but it seems reasonable at a time when reliability is the main goal.
The configuration largely eliminates the two hazards that destroyed the Columbia and the Challenger. NASA calculates that the new vehicle should be 10 times safer than the shuttle, with perhaps a 1 in 2,000 chance of a catastrophe.
 The plan pays only the barest lip service to international cooperation; Europe, Japan, China and India all have lunar programs of one kind or another under way. Mr. Griffin said NASA hoped to send Americans back to the Moon by 2018 under its own program but was open to partnerships on what to do or build on the lunar surface. Given that most experts say international collaboration will be imperative on a high-cost mission to Mars, it seems desirable to enlist international partners very early.
 It is hard to see how NASA can complete all the tasks on its agenda while operating on a constrained budget, which is scheduled to grow at only the rate of inflation. The agency needs to repair the damage to its facilities from Katrina, fly the shuttle safely until 2010, complete the space station by that date, fly the new crew exploration vehicle by 2012 and return to the Moon by 2018 or 2020, all the while carrying out its science, aeronautics and robotics programs. The safety valve is that NASA will carry out the exploration program on a ''go as you can afford to pay'' basis, without raiding money from other space programs. That means that cost overruns may stretch out the completion dates, and leave the exploration vision a more distant prospect. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (91%); SPACECRAFT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SPACE PROPULSION (79%); SPACE STATIONS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ROBOTICS (72%); LABOR FORCE (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Space; Editorials; Moon; Mars (Planet); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (83%) National Aeronautics and Space Administration

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Michael D (Admr) Griffin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (94%); MARS (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (68%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



472 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Lining Up To Be Raped?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Our close ally President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan visited the U.S. last week and fretted aloud about a surprising problem: The ''easiest way'' for Pakistani women to make money is to get raped, he said, so they're lining up to be raped and thus making him look bad.
 That's right. He's nuts.
''You must understand the environment in Pakistan,'' The Washington Post quoted him as saying. ''This has become a moneymaking concern. A lot of people say if you want to go abroad and get a visa for Canada or citizenship and be a millionaire, get yourself raped.'' 
 That comment got Mr. Musharraf in hot water. So over the weekend, Mr. Musharraf denied that he had ever said any such thing -- noting that if he had, he would have been ''stupid.''
 True.
 The Washington Post reviewed its tapes and reported that it had quoted him correctly. It also added an additional quote from the same interview, in which Mr. Musharraf spoke of rape as an avenue to riches: ''It is the easiest way of doing it. Every second person now wants to.''
 Sexual violence has become a sensitive issue for Mr. Musharraf because of the pioneering work of women like Mukhtaran Bibi, whom a tribal council sentenced to be gang-raped as a way to punish her brother -- and who then used her compensation money to start schools and launch a nationwide anti-rape campaign. After I wrote about her last year, Times readers sent her a total of $160,000, which she is using to start an ambulance service, operate schools and campaign for women's rights. 
 Fearing that Ms. Mukhtaran's anti-rape campaign would make his country look bad, General Musharraf barred her from traveling to the U.S. to attend a conference. When she protested to me and others, the government kidnapped her to keep her from complaining, releasing her only after Condi Rice raised the issue with the Pakistani government.
 Then in July and August, I wrote about Dr. Shazia Khalid, a Pakistani physician whom the authorities drugged, put in a mental hospital, threatened to kill and finally exiled to keep her from recounting her rape.
 The latest victim to come forward is Sonia Naz, a 23-year-old woman whose husband disappeared. Desperate, she went to the National Assembly building in Islamabad to see if she could get help. Then, she says, the police arrested her and repeatedly stripped her, raped her and beat her.
 Embarrassed by these revelations, Mr. Musharraf held a conference in Pakistan this month on women's issues. He wore a necktie with blue and pink, which he said could reflect cooperation between men and women -- and then he denounced Dr. Shazia.
 Here in New York on Saturday, General Musharraf held a meeting with an invited audience to show himself off as a sensitive man. The meeting started awkwardly when he tried to demonstrate his feminist credentials by saying he opposed violence against women because it's unchivalrous toward the weaker sex. Then, in response to skeptical questions, Mr. Musharraf lost his temper, shouting at audience members and threatening to ''get'' anyone who exposed Pakistan's problems to the world.
 ''He totally lost it,'' said Yasmeen Hassan, a Pakistani lawyer in New York who was present. ''It's so unbecoming of a president to get into shouting matches, and to say, 'I'm going to get you.'''
 Meanwhile, activists in Pakistan say that the government is stepping up its harassment of women's groups. I tried to phone Ms. Mukhtaran yesterday, but the government seemed to be blocking international calls to her line. Finally I was able to interview her by a circuitous route. She said that all her mail is now intercepted and that the government had just transferred away two senior police officials who had supervised her bodyguards and tried to protect her.
 ''I feel insecure and controlled,'' she said.
 The irony is that while he's a nitwit on social issues, General Musharraf has proved himself to be a good economic manager, and the 7 percent growth rates generated by his reforms will help undermine fundamentalism and sexual violence in the long run. During his visit, Mr. Musharraf pressed for a free-trade area between the U.S. and Pakistan, and that's a great idea to promote Pakistan's development.
 So let's give Mr. Musharraf a free-trade deal -- but only on the condition that he clamp down not on Pakistani women fighting against rape, but on Osama bin Laden.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TERRORISM (70%); SENTENCING (65%); ARRESTS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (50%) Sex Crimes; Women; Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Terrorism

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (92%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Nicholas D Kristof; Pervez (Gen) Musharraf; Osama Bin Laden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%) Pakistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



473 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: NASA Planning Return to Moon Within 13 Years 

BYLINE: By WARREN E. LEARY; Leslie Wayne contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Combining an old concept, existing equipment and new ideas, NASA gave shape on Monday to President Bush's promise to send humans back to the Moon by the end of the next decade.
 Michael D. Griffin, the agency's new administrator, detailed a $104 billion plan that he said would get astronauts to the Moon by 2018, serve as a steppingstone to Mars and beyond, and stay within NASA's existing budget.
The plan would use a new spacecraft similar to the Apollo command capsule of the original Moon program, and new rockets made up largely of components from the space shuttle program.
 ''It is very Apollo-like,'' Dr. Griffin said, ''but bigger. Think of it as Apollo on steroids.'' 
 The plan drew a mixture of praise and criticism from lawmakers and space experts. [News analysis, Page A15.] 
 The chairman of the House Science Committee, Representative Sherwood Boehlert, Republican of New York, said it appeared to be ''the safest, least expensive and most efficient way'' of moving forward in space exploration, but added that current cost overruns in other NASA programs might make it hard to develop the new vehicle on schedule.
 The outlines of the plan had been disclosed informally over the last two months by NASA officials and space experts. But Dr. Griffin's announcement laid out a timetable and a budget, putting flesh on the bones of a proposal that Mr. Bush announced in January 2004 but had never described in detail. 
 Dr. Griffin said that after adjusting for inflation, the program would cost just 55 percent of what it cost to put a dozen men on the lunar surface from 1969 to 1972.
 The pay-as-you-go plan, approved by the White House last week, would stay within NASA's $16-billion-a-year budget through a combination of retiring the space shuttle, finishing the International Space Station and reallocating money from other NASA programs. And Dr. Griffin said the nation could well afford it, despite concern about tight budgets in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.
 ''We're talking about returning to the Moon in 2018,'' he said at a news conference here in Washington. ''There will be a lot more hurricanes and a lot more other natural disasters to befall the United States and the world in that time, I hope none worse than Katrina.
 ''But the space program is a long-term investment in our future. We must deal with our short-term problems while not sacrificing our long-term investments in our future. When we have a hurricane, we don't cancel the Air Force. We don't cancel the Navy. And we're not going to cancel NASA.''
 Dr. Griffin and other space advocates, including influential members of Congress, have said the United States needs a replacement for the aging shuttle fleet as a matter of national security. Russia and China are currently capable of human spaceflight, and other countries have expressed interest in following suit. Dr. Griffin said the nation must maintain an independent capability to send people into space after the shuttle retires in 2010.
 The new craft, called the crew exploration vehicle, would perch the astronauts' capsule above the rockets that power it into space, rather than alongside them as with the shuttle. NASA officials said it would be 10 times as safe as the shuttle, with a projected failure rate of 1 in 2,000, as opposed to 1 in 220 for the shuttle. The increased safety, they said, will be due in part to escape rockets that will be able to jettison the capsule away from the booster rocket in the event of an accident.
 Dr. Griffin said the vehicle would be able to take as many as six astronauts to the space station, or fewer astronauts and some cargo. Or it could fly robotically without a crew, he added, carrying up some 25 tons of cargo, about as much as a shuttle can carry. The wingless craft, weighing 50 percent more than the Apollo, could carry a crew of four to the Moon.
 As envisioned, the craft would resemble a larger version of the Russian spacecraft Soyuz, including solar-power panels deployed after launching. It would be carried aloft on a modified version of one of the shuttle's solid-fueled rocket boosters and a new second stage using one of the shuttle's main liquid-fueled engines. For Moon voyages, the craft would rendezvous in Earth orbit with lunar components lifted on a big new cargo rocket.
 This heavy-cargo rocket, which could put 125 tons into orbit, would comprise two extended shuttle solid-fuel boosters attached to a liquid hydrogen-oxygen first stage made of an extended shuttle external fuel tank with five shuttle main engines. Atop this would be a new second stage using one or more of the shuttle main engines.
 The bigger rocket, capable of lifting the payload of the Saturn V, which sent men to the Moon decades ago, would put into Earth orbit another rocket that could carry a landing craft and the crew vehicle to the Moon.
 The Moon mission would be accomplished in stages. First, a vehicle with a lunar lander and a Moon rocket would be launched into Earth orbit. The crew capsule would be launched as much as a month later and would meet the first vehicle in orbit. 
 The joined craft would then be propelled to lunar orbit. From there, the landing craft would fly to the surface, and its crew of four would spend up to a week exploring. 
 Afterward, the top part of the two-piece lander would take the crew back to lunar orbit to rendezvous with the crew vehicle, which would have been left there unmanned, for the trip back to Earth. The bottom part of the lander could be left behind with equipment that might be used by future crews that land nearby, the agency said. 
 Nearing Earth, the crew vehicle would jettison its equipment module before the crew capsule plunged into the atmosphere. Parachutes would slow the capsule before it landed in the water or on land, possibly at Edwards Air Force Base in California. The landing would be cushioned by air bags on the craft's bottom or small rockets that fire just before touchdown.
 Some of the big military contractors that stand to win multibillion-dollar contracts to launch and maintain the new mission vehicles said they were pleased by Monday's announcement. 
 ''This is a big deal for us,'' said Michael Coats, chief of space exploration for the nation's largest military contractor, the Lockheed Martin Corporation, one of two teams competing to build the crew exploration vehicle. ''Today's announcement means that we will have a stable program for a while. It would be great for us to compete and win a piece of the business.'' 
 Lockheed is the leader of a consortium that currently has a $28 million contract to design the crew exploration vehicle. Another team, headed by the Boeing Company and Northrop Grumman, has an identical contract to design an alternative. NASA is expected to select the winning design next spring. 
 John E. Pike, a space policy expert with the consulting firm GlobalSecurity.org, said NASA needed to sell more people on the value of a Moon program if it is to preserve future budgets and continue space exploration. The Moon may be a source of the rare element helium-3, for instance, which could fuel fusion reactors to provide abundant electricity on Earth, he said.
 ''NASA,'' Mr. Pike said, ''needs to have reasons like this to go back to the Moon so the program has more stakeholders who see its value and want to protect it.''

 COMMAND MODULE Will carry a crew of four astronauts to the Moon but can accomodate six in Earth orbit.

SERVICE MODULE Provides propulsion and life support.

Crew vehicle, 18 feet in diameter, will weigh 50 percent more than Apollo.

Apollo carried a crew of three and had a diameter of 12.8 feet.

Two for one
Two launching vehicles will be used instead of Apollo's single Saturn V.

From the Earth to the Moon
Unlike the Apollo effort, the new plan calls for the lander to be launched on a separate rocket from the crew vehicle. They will dock in Earth orbit before heading for the Moon. The entire crew will descend to the surface.

1. Lander launching
2. Crew launching
3. Docking
4. Departure
5. Lunar orbit
6. Lunar landing
7. Ascent from Moon
8. Dock with C.E.V.
9. Re-entry
10. Landing

A timetable, but no longer a race
Unlike the space race of the 60's, there is not an all-out rush to reach the Moon. Apollo took 8 years to accomplish its goal. This plan will take 13 years.

President Bush's proposal: 2004
C.E.V. development start: 2005
Robotic missions start: 2008
Shuttle retired: 2010
First C.E.V. flight: 2012
Lunar equipment development: 2013
Lunar landing: 2018

President Kennedy's proposal

Project Mercury: 1961-1963

Apollo 1 fire
Project Gemini: 1964-1966

Apollo 11 landing

Apollo 8 lunar orbit

(Source by NASA)(pg. A15)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Another small step: A depiction of a proposed new lunar lander. (Photo by NASA, via Reuters)Chart: ''A Future in Space''NASA has unveiled an ambitious plan to replace the shuttle and return Americans to the Moon by 2018. The design of the new craft is strikingly similar to the hardware used in the Apollo program four decades ago, with a conical crew vehicle and a separate lander (not shown).Crew Exploration Vehicle (C.E.V.)Diagram of Crew Exploration Vechicle highlighting the following:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); HURRICANES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPACE SHUTTLE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SPACE STATIONS (78%); AIR FORCES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); WEATHER (65%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (96%); MARS (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005



474 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Turning African Danger Into Safe Entertainment

BYLINE: By CARYN JAMES

 BODY:
Hollywood has a formula, not foolproof but entrenched, for turning a political message into a commercial film: take a likable hero, add a romance, then telegraph an unobjectionable idea, something like, ''Let's feed starving children.'' Lately, a new twist has been added: latch on to Africa. The subject may be arms dealing in Liberia, as in the new Nicolas Cage movie, ''Lord of War''; big, bad drug companies in Kenya, as in the current ''Constant Gardener ''; or the dictatorship of the fictional not-quite-Zimbabwe that Nicole Kidman's character flees in the recent flop ''The Interpreter.'' But the common strategy in these and several other films is to take a hot-button African issue and spin it into easy-to-swallow entertainment. Fleeing from the truly political and divisive ground of ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' these movies begin with safe opinions, then sugar-coat them. 
 Sub-Saharan Africa has come to dominate these political popcorn movies for practical reasons. The United States is not at war there. Considering the global powder keg and the war on terror, American audiences are likely to see Africa as unalarming (and to regard explosive northern African countries like Libya as part of the Middle East problem). 
More important, Africa's devastating crises -- AIDS, drought and famine -- are humanitarian issues, easily reduced to pop-culture platitudes. It's the ''Hotel Rwanda'' syndrome, which morphed into the Live 8 phenomenon. 
 ''Hotel Rwanda,'' from last year, is tough and eloquent, yet clings to the safe movie formula as it looks back at the Rwandan genocide more than a decade ago. Paul Rusesabagina (Don Cheadle), the heroic hotel manager who helps save hundreds of lives, has a touchingly romantic marriage. And the film is shaped as an uplifting survival story, complete with a last-minute rescue. Viewers are prodded to feel saddened by the loss, guilty about the lack of American intervention and, above all, soothingly enlightened that today they know better.
 More recently, the underrated HBO film ''Sometimes in April'' also looked back at the Rwandan genocide, with Idris Elba as a man devastated by the loss of his wife and children. The film's torture scenes are even harder to watch than those in ''Hotel Rwanda,'' and its romance is more tentative. The hero tries to rebuild his life with another woman but may be too caught in the horrors of the past. Without the need to attract a theater audience, HBO films are freer to toy with the formula. 
 But they don't always. The preachy ''Girl in the Cafe'' was first shown on HBO just before the July G-8 summit, the meeting of world leaders that inspired the Live 8 concerts lobbying politicians to do more to help Africa. The film's high-profile writer, Richard Curtis (''Love Actually''), has acknowledged in interviews that it's an activist movie, but the message is cloaked in an outlandish romance between Lawrence (Bill Nighy), a shy British diplomat heading to a G-8 conference in Iceland, and Gina (Kelly Macdonald), a young woman he hardly knows. Throwing security checks to the wind, he invites her along to Reykjavik, where at cocktail parties and dinners she lectures heads of state (and us) about their responsibilities to starving African children. 
 ''The Girl in the Cafe'' is big-hearted and soft-headed, much like Live 8 itself. What pop star would say no to ending African poverty? How many, with the famous exception of Bono, know a thing about African economies? 
 In this formula-bound context, ''Lord of War,'' which opened last week, is an especially intriguing failure. Its message is simplistic: gun-running is bad. But the film dares to violate the first rule of mainstream movies -- make the hero heroic -- and nearly pulls it off. The character Mr. Cage plays, Yuri Orlov, is an unrepentant arms dealer, and we see the results of his work as a bullet makes its way from a Russian factory to the forehead of an African child. We can't like this character; he's responsible for the deaths of children.
 But Yuri is also our wryly entertaining guide, introducing himself to us by facing the camera, talking in friendly voice-over to the end. We become so attached to his point of view that we root for him to outwit the Interpol agent played by Ethan Hawke. The central character doesn't fight the bad guys here; he is the bad guy, as the film exposes evil from the inside out. 
 Much of ''Lord of War'' takes place in New York, Yuri's home, and we follow him as he travels the world and exploits family connections in Ukraine. But the most effective scenes are set in Africa, where, Yuri explains, there are great business opportunities (all those guerrillas and warlords). The movie's most dynamic villain is the fictional Liberian dictator, Andre Baptiste (Eamonn Walker), who casually shoots and kills a man before Yuri's eyes. And the AIDS crisis is addressed with unexpected, deft satire when Yuri refuses to have sex with two prostitutes Baptiste has sent as a gift; it's tempting, but too risky. 
 While the writer and director, Andrew Niccol, cleverly tweaks the formula, ''Lord of War'' fails for a more mundane reason: Yuri's voice-over is burdened with too much explanation: ''550 million firearms in worldwide circulation'' is never going to roll off the tongue, not even Nicolas Cage's. 
 ''The Constant Gardener'' simply follows the rules with unusual grace and sophistication; it's this kind of film that keeps the formula alive. The dashing hero, Justin Quayle (Ralph Fiennes), is an English diplomat in Kenya whose political conscience is raised after the murder of his activist wife, Tessa (Rachel Weisz). She suspects that a pharmaceutical company, testing drugs on Africans, is killing some in the process. Like Gina in ''The Girl in the Cafe,'' Tessa lectures diplomats at parties, but here it seems in character, evidence that ''The Constant Gardener'' is better at gilding its politics. Still, the drug company is such a broad, easy target that the film's central message has less bite than the images of the impoverished villages Tessa visits as she fights against AIDS and for women's rights. 
 More typically, the formula runs away with the subject. In ''The Interpreter,'' the United Nations interpreter played by Ms. Kidman overhears a plan to assassinate her country's dictator, but that plot is overshadowed by the predictable attraction between her and the Secret Service agent played by Sean Penn. And while there's no need for viewers to grasp the resemblance between the fictional dictator, Edward Zuwanie, and Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe, somebody noticed. Just two weeks ago, Zimbabwe's acting minister of information called the movie a C.I.A. plot. He may be the only one to take this lame political-formula movie so seriously. In Hollywood, it's a very short step from sugar-coated politics to no politics at all.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Constant Gardener Ralph Fiennes is a diplomat in Kenya. (Photo by Jaap Buitendijk/Focus Features)
Lord of War Nicolas Cage plays a gun runner dealing with Liberia. (Photo by Garth Stead/Lions Gate Films)
 The Girl in the Cafe Kelly Macdonald takes on African poverty. (Photo by Joss Barratt/HBO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (87%); STARVATION (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); FAMINE (77%); POLITICS (73%); TERRORISM (67%); HOTEL STAFF (64%); GENOCIDE (62%) Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures; Television; Motion Pictures; Politics and Government

COMPANY: ELBA AS (62%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3494 VALVES & PIPE FITTINGS, NEC (62%)

PERSON: NICOLAS CAGE (59%); NICOLE KIDMAN (58%) Caryn James

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (96%); RWANDA (94%); LIBERIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



475 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; A Fright Over Fries; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1852 words

HEADLINE: California Wants to Serve a Health Warning With That Order

BYLINE: By MELANIE WARNER

 BODY:
Americans may have plenty of reasons to fear French fries. While they are one of the country's favorite foods, they are soaked with trans fats, loaded with sodium and full of simple carbs, the bad kind. And, it turns out, they are also full of a chemical called acrylamide, which is known to cause cancer in laboratory rats and mice. 
 That discovery a few years ago has raised questions about the safety of fries, as well as potato chips, which are also packed with acrylamide.
 It ultimately led to a showdown this summer over whether such foods should bear health warning labels and whether companies should be required to reduce acrylamide levels in their food. 
 The battle pits the activist attorney general of California against the food industry and the Food and Drug Administration. 
 What happens over the next few months could have a huge bearing on the eating habits of Americans, and may make a dent in the bottom lines of restaurants and food companies. French fries are the No. 1 consumed food in restaurants, according to the NPD Group, a research firm. 
 California's attorney general, Bill Lockyer, filed suit in August against McDonald's; Burger King; Frito-Lay, owned by PepsiCo; and six other food companies, saying that they should be forced to put labels on all fries and potato chips sold in California. The proposed warning might say something to this effect: ''This product contains a chemical known to the state of California to cause cancer.'' 
 The food industry, which might prefer seeing every American become vegan to being forced to put the word ''cancer'' on its products, is worried. Food companies argue, accurately, that scientists do not know for certain that acrylamide is carcinogenic to humans at the levels present in food. Acrylamide is not put into food, but is formed when starchy food is heated at high temperatures. 
 The F.D.A. is also opposed to labeling, pending its own review of the matter, which began in 2002 when scientists first discovered that acrylamide could be formed in food. 
 While legal specialists say the attorney general's lawsuit is something of a long shot, it is likely to spur further action. The California Environmental Protection Agency, which has also been looking at acrylamide for several years, says it will issue regulations by the end of this year. Proposals include displays of warning labels and signs in supermarkets and restaurants, as well as a total exemption for acrylamide in food -- an option the food industry has lobbied heavily for but which is considered unlikely to be adopted.
 Under Proposition 65, which California voters approved in 1986, the state is required to regulate chemicals that are known to cause cancer or reproductive harm and to force manufacturers to label their products or otherwise warn consumers. Acrylamide, a chemical that has a variety of industrial uses, has been on the Proposition 65 list since 1990. 
 In California, warning labels are currently found on products like paint solvents and fertilizer. In response to another lawsuit by the attorney general's office, supermarkets in the state recently started posting signs warning about mercury in certain fish at their seafood counters. 
 Were they ever to materialize, French fry and potato chip warning labels or signs would be required only in California. But among states, California has the nation's biggest economy, representing 13.5 percent of the national gross domestic product, and is often a regulatory trendsetter. 
 And fried potatoes are a big business throughout the country. Americans spend an estimated $4 billion a year on fries and $3 billion a year on potato chips. In addition to McDonald's, Burger King and Frito-Lay, other companies named in the suit are KFC, a division of Yum Brands; Wendy's International; Lance, which makes Cape Cod potato chips; H.J. Heinz, which produces Ore-Ida frozen potato products; the potato chip company Kettle Foods; and Procter & Gamble, which sells Pringles. 
 The regulation of chemicals in food has, for the last four decades, relied upon animal study extrapolation to determine risks to humans. For obvious ethical reasons, the testing of potential carcinogens is not done directly on humans; animals, particularly mice and rats, have served as proxies.
 The California attorney general and several activist groups say that consumers should be given information so they can make informed food choices.
 ''Proposition 65 requires companies to tell us when we're exposed to potentially dangerous toxins in our food; the law benefits us all,'' said Mr. Lockyer, in a statement. 
 Edward G. Weil, California's deputy attorney general, said he was ''not trying to ban French fries,'' but that he needed to take action in the absence of regulatory decisions by either the F.D.A. or the California E.P.A. 
 The attorney general's office cites a dozen acrylamide animal studies showing both cancer and birth defects, as well as the federal Environmental Protection Agency's regulation of the chemical as a carcinogen for 13 years. 
 The food industry and the F.D.A., meanwhile, are calling for more studies. The agency says that it has been ''very active'' in acrylamide research and will do a thorough risk assessment once a large-scale experiment is completed in 2007.
 The controversy started when Swedish scientists accidentally discovered acrylamide in food in 2002. The chemical had long been used in the manufacture of things like grout and adhesives and to perform tasks like separating solid sewage from water.
 Its discovery in food sent the international scientific community into a tailspin and ignited a debate over how chemicals in food should be regulated.
 Under the Delaney Clause, which amended the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act in 1958, no substance that causes cancer in either humans or animals can be added to food. But that law is normally applied to substances introduced to food, like dyes and preservatives, not those, like acrylamide, created by cooking. Frying and baking potatoes at home create acrylamide as well. 
 Thus, the food industry wants acrylamide treated differently from food chemicals. ''Acrylamide has been present in the food supply and safely consumed since human beings discovered that cooked food tastes good,'' said Kristen Power, director of state affairs at the Grocery Manufacturers Association, which is leading the food industry's efforts on acrylamide. ''It is in 40 percent of the calories consumed in the average American diet.'' 
 Acrylamide is also found in lesser amounts in breads, cereals, cookies and crackers, as well as roasted nuts and some vegetables that have been grilled or sauteed.
 Elizabeth Whelan, executive director of the American Council on Science and Health, a group financed by the food industry, foundations and private individuals, said that in singling out potato chips and French fries, the California attorney general is applying a double standard.
 Food like whole wheat toast and black olives, she notes, also have high acrylamide levels. (The chemical processing of black olives, which are not naturally black, forms acrylamide.) ''This is really just another attack on what we call junk food,'' Ms. Whelan said.
 Mr. Weil of the California attorney general's office said his office looked carefully at food consumption data before deciding which products to pursue. ''If people ate as many olives as they do French fries, we'd have to be concerned about it,'' Mr. Weil said. 
 Other foods that test positive for acrylamide, like breads, cereals and peanut butter, contain the chemical at comparatively low levels, Mr. Weil said.
 ''When the food industry says 40 percent of the caloriesin the food supply have some acrylamide in it, that's true only if you count foods with even the tiniest bit,'' he said. ''The potato chips and French fries really stand by themselves as having high levels.''
 Scientists say that is because acrylamide is created, generally speaking, when the naturally occurring amino acid asparagine is heated to temperatures above 250 degrees in the presence of sugars or starches. Potatoes have a lot of both asparagine and starch, and are often fried at temperatures of up to 400 degrees.
 Alise Cappel, research director at the Environmental Law Foundation, a nonprofit group that recently sued four potato chip companies over acrylamide (the suit is expected to be joined with the attorney general's), says people are increasingly eating foods with acrylamide.
 ''It certainly has been in the food supply for centuries, but the frying of food is a relatively new cooking technique,'' Ms. Cappel said. ''And we're eating more cookies, crackers and breads than we ever have before.''
 The F.D.A. is not convinced that such consumption is necessarily bad. The agency has said that warning labels on food could ''confuse consumers'' and create ''unnecessary public alarm.''
 In a July 2003 letter, Lester M. Crawford, then a deputy commissioner and now commissioner of the agency, warned that any of California's attempts to regulate acrylamide could ''directly conflict with federal law.'' The F.D.A. says it has broad authority to regulate the labels of food products.
 Terry C. Troxell, director for the office of plant and dairy foods at the F.D.A., said that the agency had already spent millions financing acrylamide research. ''This isn't a simple situation,'' Mr. Troxell said. ''Acrylamide is interwoven with the way we prepare and cook our food.''
 Mr. Weil charges that the agency is dragging its feet. ''More research is good, but we've been waiting around on our own state agency and the F.D.A., which has been studying this for three years and hasn't done anything,'' he said. ''And they have no schedule for when they're going to do anything.'' 
 Most food companies say they will continue to follow the agency's lead. ''If the F.D.A. or California's Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment ever changes the regulations, we will modify our standards to be in full compliance,'' said Jonathan Blum, senior vice president of Yum Brands. 
 In the meantime, companies are taking some preliminary steps to find ways to reduce acrylamide levels. Frito-Lay says it has worked with Michael W. Pariza, a professor in the University of Wisconsin's food microbiology and toxicology department, on acrylamide-reduction research.
 But Professor Pariza, who is working with a consortium of 12 companies, says no one has found any clear solutions. ''Anybody who thinks that companies can turn on a dime and fix this is wrong,'' he said.
 Scientists say that a simple and sure way to reduce acrylamide in food is to lower cooking temperatures. But this approach carries its own set of problems.
 ''You get French fries that are really just warm potatoes,'' said Ken Lee, chairman of Ohio State University's food science department and a member of the F.D.A.'s advisory committee on acrylamide.
 Low cooking temperatures also produce cereal that is not crunchy and crackers that are less flavorful.
 ''This thing is a real scientific head-scratcher,'' Professor Lee said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Lockyer, California's attorney general, says that warning labels about acrylamide in fries and chips are intended to benefit everyone. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Ugh. Another Thing to Count?''There are currently no standards for safe limits of acrylamide in food. Proposition 65 in California and the E.P.A. had set limits for industrial use, but many believe these are not applicable. To address this issue, California is considering raising its ''no considerable risk'' limit from 0.2 to 1.0 micrograms a day. Below, a list of common foods and their levels of acrylamide.Acrylamide per servingin microgramsFrench fries, home-baked: 54.4French fries, restaurant: 40.3Prune juice: 36.1Potato chips: 13.0Graham crackers: 11.5Almonds, roasted: 9.0Black olives: *5.8-7.5Bagels, toasted: 5.7Corn, tortilla chips: 5.6Microwave popcorn: 5.4-7.2Pretzels: 4.6Crackers: 3.1-6.2Cookies: 3.0Peanut butter: 2.8Cereal: 2.6Coffee, brewed: 1.6-2.4Granola bars: 1.6-2.2Doughnuts, sweet rolls: 0.8-1.2Cake: 0.7-0.8White bread: 0.3*Serving sizes vary.(Source by Food and Drug Administration)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); PRODUCT LABELING (89%); CARCINOGENS (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); CANCER (89%); LITIGATION (88%); RESTAURANTS (88%); NUTRITION (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); CHEMICALS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (76%); SNACK FOOD MFG (76%); RODENTS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); MEAT FREE DIETS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); APPROVALS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Suits and Litigation; Cancer; Acrylamide (Chemical); Potatoes; Food Contamination and Poisoning

COMPANY: FRITO-LAY INC (57%); PEPSICO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%) Mcdonald's Corp; Burger King Corp; Frito-Lay Inc; Food and Drug Administration

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%)

PERSON: Bill (Atty Gen) Lockyer; Melanie Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



476 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Home Construction Declined in August 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Construction of new homes slipped for a second month in August, providing fresh evidence that the housing boom may be cooling. 
 The Commerce Department reported Tuesday that construction of new homes and apartments dropped 1.3 percent last month after a decline of 1.5 percent in July. The two declines are the first consecutive ones since early 2004. 
 Even with the drops, housing construction totaled 2.01 million units in August, seasonally adjusted and annualized. It was the eighth month in the last nine that construction exceeded the two million rate. 
 Hurricane Katrina, which hit late in the month, had little impact on the data, but analysts predicted a more adverse effect in September.
 David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders, predicted that for all of 2005 housing construction would total 2.02 million units, up 3.6 percent from the pace in 2004 and the best showing in more than two decades. 
 For 2006, Mr. Seiders forecast housing construction would drop 4.8 percent, to around 1.92 million starts. He said he had added just 25,000 starts to that figure for rebuilding from the hurricane, expecting that the recovery effort will be stretched out perhaps as long as five years. 
 For August, construction of new single-family homes fell by 0.5 percent, to 1.71 million units, while construction of multifamily units was down 6 percent, to 328,000 units. 
 By region, construction rose 13.3 percent in the West, to an annual rate of 561,000 units. All other regions posted declines in August from July. 
 The biggest drop occurred in the South, where construction fell 6.6 percent, to an annual rate of 915,000 units. Analysts said unusually wet weather accounted for the decline.
 Construction was down 5.2 percent in the Midwest, to an annual rate of 346,000 units, and down 4.1 percent in the Northeast, to an annual rate of 187,000 units. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (97%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STATISTICS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (79%); HURRICANE KATRINA (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HURRICANES (70%) Housing

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



477 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1493 words

HEADLINE: Was It Wind or Water? Gulf Coast Lawyer Is Taking On Insurers 

BYLINE: By JEREMY ALFORD and JOSEPH B. TREASTER; Jeremy Alford reported for this article from Pascagoula, Miss., and Joseph B. Treaster from New York.

DATELINE: PASCAGOULA, Miss., Sept. 18 

 BODY:
Richard Scruggs picked his way through the ruins of his once-handsome four-bedroom home, no more than 50 yards from the edge of the Gulf of Mexico.
 A wall of water flung by Hurricane Katrina tore through the home a little more than three weeks ago, blowing out the sides of the house and leaving only a pair of brick chimneys and exposed studs tenuously holding up the upper floor.
To the left of Mr. Scruggs's home lies a bare concrete slab where another elegant home stood until the storm's assault on New Orleans and the coasts of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. To the right, a peaked roof sits at a twisted angle on a waterlogged lawn, all that remains of another big house. 
 ''The whole street is torn up,'' Mr. Scruggs said. ''Very few houses are even standing.''
 Mr. Scruggs, a wealthy plaintiffs' lawyer who played a leading role in wrenching a $250 billion settlement from the tobacco industry a few years back, is furious about the hurricane -- not simply that it happened, but that insurance companies might escape what he sees as their responsibility for a huge portion of the losses from the storm, those resulting from flooding. 
 The insurers say homeowners' policies cover wind and rain damage, but do not cover flood damage caused by hurricanes or anything else. A federal program provides up to $250,000 in flood insurance, but most people do not have that coverage. 
 ''I'm not going to sit still for this,'' said Mr. Scruggs, who grew up in Pascagoula and has practiced law here for decades. ''I'm going to bring every organizational and legal skill I possess to make these guys do the right thing under their policies.''
 At stake is a potential $15 billion worth of insurance payments. That explains why the insurance companies, which have never been successfully challenged on the ''wind vs. water'' issue, are equally adamant.
 They have contract law in their favor, they say. Their longstanding practice of not covering flood losses resulted years ago in a federal program being specifically created to provide such coverage. Still, they worry about going to court in Mississippi, which has a reputation for being tough on corporate defendants despite recent changes in the state's legal system. 
 At the very least, Mr. Scruggs contended that the extent of coverage is ambiguous and that courts have ruled that it is the responsibility of the writer of the policy -- the insurance company -- to make the provisions clear.
 Much of the damage, he said, came from storm surge, which he said was gulf water driven inland by the wind. If the insurers wanted to exclude coverage for storm surge ''they certainly know how to do it,'' he said. ''And that term does not appear.'' 
 Fred Levin, a Pensacola lawyer who specializes in suing insurance companies, said his first reaction was that Mr. Scruggs had no chance of winning. ''What the hell are they trying to do?'' he said. ''Contract law is contract law.''
 But Mr. Levin said policies on the Gulf Coast, unlike those in Florida, do not appear to include large, bold-type warnings that flood damage is not covered. He added that any lawsuit by Mr. Scruggs could hinge on whether insurance agents fully explained to homeowners that their hurricane coverage applied only to wind and rain.
 ''You go to the agent and tell him you want full coverage,'' Mr. Levin said, ''and he tells you, 'Yes, you've got full coverage.' I think that's the best claim they've got.''
 There is no disputing that Hurricane Katrina caused enormous damage, much of it from flooding. Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, estimates that 200,000 homes were destroyed or damaged beyond repair in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. Estimates of the insured losses run as high as $60 billion, nearly twice as much in today's dollars as the losses in the Sept. 11 attacks and nearly three times the insurers' costs from Hurricane Andrew, the worst previous storm, in 1992. 
 Should the Mississippi challenge go against the insurers, Mr. Hartwig said, costs could rise to more than $75 billion. If forced to pay for damage they never anticipated and for which they never collected premiums, Mr. Hartwig said, insurers would face severe strains; some might even go bankrupt.
 Most people, even in low-lying areas, do not buy federal flood insurance. But even fewer people bought flood insurance on the Mississippi Coast than in New Orleans and nearby parishes or counties. In New Orleans, Mr. Hartwig said, 40 percent bought it. Nearly 60 percent did so in the two flanking parishes. But in the three Mississippi counties facing the Gulf of Mexico, 23.4 percent bought it in Hancock County, 11.7 percent in Harrison County and 10.4 percent in Jackson County.
 Jim Hood, the attorney general of Mississippi, filed a civil lawsuit in a state court last Thursday to force the insurers to pay for storm surge losses. ''I'm not going to allow insurance companies to bankrupt the entire Gulf Coast by using the fine print and saying that people should have known that they didn't have coverage for water damage,'' he said. 
 Mr. Scruggs, 59, said that he and his neighbors, like thousands of owners of homes and small businesses along the coast, bought hurricane insurance for which they paid an extra premium and agreed to a higher- than-usual deductible. He said he bought the maximum of $250,000 in federal flood insurance for his $800,000 home because it sits on the waterfront. But he and some insurance executives said the flooding from Katrina extended much farther inland than in previous storms.
 Mr. Scruggs said storm surges were part and parcel of hurricanes along the Gulf Coast. ''Everyone knows, as does the insurance industry, that the major risk to life and property from a hurricane is storm surge,'' he said. ''So having a hurricane policy that excluded storm surge is preposterous. No one believed that. When you pay an additional premium for a hurricane endorsement you would naturally think, 'O.K., I've got that covered.'''
 The insurance companies say the cost of hurricane coverage was intended to pay for extraordinary expenses resulting from hurricane winds and rain. 
 ''The flood exclusions are very broad and cover rising waters regardless of the cause or circumstance,'' Mr. Hartwig said. ''Homeowners' contracts are pretty cut and dry. They've been tested by time.''
 Mr. Scruggs said he planned to file lawsuits in a few days on behalf of several hundred Gulf Coast residents against State Farm, Allstate and Nationwide -- the three largest insurers in the region -- as well as others.
 With a bank of operators responding to a toll-free number, Mr. Scruggs said his list of clients could easily run into the thousands. To make space for the anticipated jump in business, Mr. Scruggs has gutted a conference room in his office in an antebellum home on the main street of Moss Point, a village adjacent to Pascagoula, and set up rows of interview cubicles with a waiting room filled with dozens of neatly aligned metal folding chairs.
 Mr. Scruggs said he did not see the insurance battle as a personal gold mine. He said he was prepared to take as little as 1 percent of any settlement or jury award -- far less than the typical contingency fee of one-third or more -- and that he would try to get the insurers to pay for his services separately from any payments to policyholders. 
 State Farm, Allstate and Nationwide declined to comment on the planned lawsuits. But all of the companies contended that any effort to force payment would be against the public interest. ''In essence,'' said Richard Luedke, a spokesman for State Farm, ''the attorney general is challenging the validity of contracts in the state of Mississippi and that threatens the foundation of the economy and state and has ramifications for the residents of Mississippi.'' Paul Leonard, a police lieutenant in Pascagoula, said he turned to Mr. Scruggs after surging gulf waters gutted his home a few blocks back from the waterfront and his insurer, Nationwide, denied his claim.
 ''They said all my damage was from water and they weren't paying,'' Mr. Leonard said. ''If it was from wind, they said they would have paid.''
 Mr. Scruggs has shifted much of his daily work to an office in Oxford, Miss., in the last year or so. Since the hurricane, he has been commuting between Oxford and Pascagoula in his private twin-engine corporate jet, sometimes ferrying generators, food, water and other relief supplies. He said he expected to be spending more time on the coast as he battles the insurance companies. 
 Mr. Scruggs said he has not yet learned how his insurer, USAA, plans to respond to his claim.
 In any event, Mr. Scruggs, who said his taxable income last year was $8 million to $9 million, said that if he had to, he could certainly cover his own losses. Most other people, he said, ''will have no way to rebuild or do anything.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Scruggs, a well-known plaintiffs' lawyer, in the wreckage of his home in Pascagoula, Miss. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 The pool at Richard Scruggs's hurricane-ravaged home was filled with debris. Mr. Scruggs plans a lawsuit on behalf of others against insurers. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); FLOOD INSURANCE (89%); LAWYERS (87%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); LITIGATION (68%); CONTRACTS LAW (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Insurance; Katrina (Storm); Suits and Litigation; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Richard Scruggs; Jeremy Alford; Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pascagoula (Miss); Mississippi; Louisiana; Alabama; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



478 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Text of Statement by the Fed Policy Panel

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to raise its benchmark interest rates a quarter-point:

The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to 3 3/4 percent.
Output appeared poised to continue growing at a good pace before the tragic toll of Hurricane Katrina. The widespread devastation in the gulf region, the associated dislocation of economic activity and the boost to energy prices imply that spending, production and employment will be set back in the near term. In addition to elevating premiums for some energy products, the disruption to the production and refining infrastructure may add to energy price volatility. 
 While these unfortunate developments have increased uncertainty about near-term economic performance, it is the committee's view that they do not pose a more persistent threat. Rather, monetary policy accommodation, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity. Higher energy and other costs have the potential to add to inflation pressures. However, core inflation has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained. 
 The committee perceives that, with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability. 
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Richard W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern. Voting against was Mark W. Olson, who preferred no change in the federal funds rate target at this meeting. 
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate to 4 3/4 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis and Kansas City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); HURRICANES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); WEATHER (71%); APPROVALS (69%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (79%) Alabama; Louisiana; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



479 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Isao Nakauchi, 83, Importer Of U.S.-Style Retailing to Japan

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Isao Nakauchi, who founded the supermarket chain Daiei and revolutionized Japan's retail industry, died Monday at a hospital in Kobe. He was 83. 
 The cause was a stroke, according to a statement from the University of Marketing and Distribution Sciences in Kobe, which was run by an organization that Mr. Nakauchi led.
 Daiei, based in the western Japanese port city of Kobe, was founded in 1957 by Mr. Nakauchi, a charismatic businessman who was praised for bringing American-style large-scale discount retail methods to a nation long dominated by mom-and-pop stores.
 Daiei grew to become the biggest Japanese retailer during the 1970's. But as imitators sprang up, Daiei fell into financial trouble and has struggled under the burden of huge debts amassed during years of overexpansion in the 1980's. It was taken over by a government-backed rehabilitation organization earlier this year.
 Mr. Nakauchi was no longer involved in the day-to-day operations of Daiei after stepping down from the board in 2002, and the enormous influence over Japanese economic policy that he held decades ago vanished as Daiei fell from grace.
 Before the arrival of Daiei, methods taken for granted in the United States -- like selling cases of soda at cheaper prices -- had been unknown. In recent years, however, Daiei became a symbol of a protected mammoth company, receiving large bailouts from the government to stay afloat.
 Underlining the sweeping changes that are taking place in the world's second-largest economy, Daiei's professional baseball team was taken over by an Internet company, the Softbank Corporation.
 Mr. Nakauchi is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); BAILOUTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); BASEBALL (64%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: DAIEI INC (92%); SOFTBANK CORP (91%)

TICKER: 8263 (TSE) (92%); 9984 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



480 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Times Company Announces 500 Job Cuts

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The New York Times Company announced yesterday that it would cut its work force by 500 employees, including 45 in The Times's newsroom and 35 in the newsroom of The Boston Globe.
 The announcement came on the same day that Knight Ridder said it was cutting 100 editorial employees in Philadelphia: 75 from the newsroom at The Philadelphia Inquirer and 25 from The Philadelphia Daily News.
 The announcements by two of the biggest newspaper companies in the country reflect the uncertain outlook for newspapers as some readers and advertisers move to other media.
 ''The climate change in the newspaper industry is going to take this kind of toll,'' said Colby Atwood, vice president of Borrell Associates, a media research firm. ''I expect to see more of this over the next 10-plus years as the newspaper industry adjusts to its smaller role in news dissemination and advertising.'' 
 The Times Company said the 500 job cuts there would begin in October and would take place over the following six to nine months.
 They will account for about 4 percent of the company's total work force, which was 12,300 people at the end of 2004. This represents the largest cuts for the company since 2001, when the bursting of the technology bubble prompted a 9 percent reduction of a work force of 13,750.
 In this round, the Times newsroom will lose 3.75 percent of its 1,200 employees, and The Boston Globe will lose about 6 percent of its newsroom staff of 550.
 The company said half of the 500 job cuts would come from The New York Times Media Group, which includes The Times and The International Herald Tribune. Catherine J. Mathis, a spokeswoman for the company, said she had no breakdown of how many jobs The International Herald Tribune might lose. The company's regional newspapers, television stations and corporate staff will lose about 90 jobs.
 Ms. Mathis did say the cuts would be made through a combination of buyouts and layoffs. The company reduced its staff by 200 jobs earlier this year, largely through buyouts.
 Bill Keller, executive editor of The Times, said in a statement that he hoped to achieve the 45 newsroom cuts through voluntary severance deals and attrition and by curbing the use of temporary employees, rather than through layoffs. He also announced a hiring freeze, effective immediately.
 At the same time, the company said it expected its third-quarter earnings to be lower than analysts predicted. It said it expected earnings of 11 cents to 14 cents a share. Analysts had predicted 25 cents a share, according to Thomson First Call. Even that was well below the 33 cents a share the company earned last year.
 Ms. Mathis said the analysts' estimates largely excluded the costs associated with the job cuts earlier this year. Those costs, which were $12 million to $14 million, were higher because more people took the buyouts than had been expected.
 The company also scaled back its estimates of revenues from advertising and circulation for the year. It said advertising revenue would increase in the low single digits; it had forecast growth in the low to mid-single digits. And it said circulation revenue would be flat to down slightly; earlier it said it would be flat.
 Janet L. Robinson, the company president and chief executive, said in a statement that advertising for September ''has been challenging and visibility remains limited.'' 
 ''We continue to benefit from very strong double-digit advertising growth at our digital operations, particularly About.com,'' she said. ''But elsewhere, advertising is weaker than expected.''
 The company said that for August, advertising revenue increased 1.7 percent and total company revenue increased 0.6 percent compared with August 2004. The increases were modest because last year the company benefited from having the Republican National Convention in New York and the Democratic convention in Boston.
 Times Company shares closed at $32.13, and fell about 2 percent in after-hours trading.
 In Philadelphia, Joe Natoli, the publisher of Philadelphia Newspapers Inc., cited the loss of advertising from a large regional department store, Strawbridge's, as a factor in the company's revenue shortfall. Strawbridge's was acquired by Federated Department Stores, the largest department store company in the country, which already advertises in the Philadelphia papers. Also, Merrill Lynch says that Federated has started to shift advertising spending away from newspapers.
 Mr. Natoli said he hoped to achieve the savings through voluntary buyouts, but failing that, ''there will be newsroom layoffs.''
 The papers have taken several steps to try to avoid staff cuts, he said, but there is less money coming in this year than last year. More worrisome, he said, ''our revenues have been essentially flat for the last several years.''
 The Inquirer's loss of 75 jobs means a 15 percent cut in its newsroom of 506 people; The Daily News's loss of 25 jobs is a 19 percent cut in its newsroom of 130 people.
 ''The mood here is grim,'' said Tom Ferrick Jr., a metro columnist at The Inquirer and former officer in the Newspaper Guild union.
 ''What was a surprise was the depth of the cuts, and it's pretty obvious they won't get them all through buyouts,'' he said, adding that except for a handful of layoffs last year, he could not remember any layoffs at the paper in his 29 years there.
 Three years ago, he said, the paper had hired 52 young reporters as part of an expansion into the suburbs. Now, he said, those people in their 20's and 30's would be the ones laid off after older people take the buyouts. He said this would hurt the paper further because the younger employees not only were less expensive for the paper but also were an investment in the future.
 John Morton, a newspaper industry analyst, said that one of the many business and social trends working against newspapers was public ownership of newspaper companies.
 ''Wall Street appreciates cost-cutting and improving margins and increased profitability,'' he said. ''Those are the things that make them dance a jig at night. They put that kind of pressure on publicly owned companies, and newspapers are no more immune to that than anybody else. These cuts and layoffs are known as dancing to Wall Street's tune.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (85%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (83%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (65%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Newspapers; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Advertising and Marketing; Company Reports; Newspapers

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Times; Boston Globe; Philadelphia Inquirer; Philadelphia Daily News; Knight Ridder; International Herald Tribune

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%)

PERSON: Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



481 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall After the Fed Says Rate Increases Will Go On 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks erased a rally and continued sliding yesterday after the Federal Reserve raised its benchmark interest rate for the 11th consecutive time and indicated that its ''measured'' pace of increases would persist despite the economic damage of Hurricane Katrina.
 Homebuilders like D.R. Horton and retailers including Kohl's led the decline amid concern that higher rates and near-record energy prices would restrain consumer spending.
 ''They could have taken a break here and restarted in a quarter in light of Katrina, and that's why the market is reacting negatively,'' said Joe Ranieri, managing director of over-the-counter trading at Adams Harkness in Boston. ''The Fed is sending us a message that even a one-time pass on interest rates is not in the cards.'' 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 9.68 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,221.34. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 76.11 points, or 0.7 percent, at 10,481.52. The Nasdaq composite index fell 13.93 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,131.33. All three indexes slipped to their lowest level in about three weeks.
 The S.&P. 500 had rallied 2.2 percent since Hurricane Katrina on optimism that the Fed might pause in raising rates. But the central bank said the economy faced only a near-term setback from the hurricane..
 Shares of homebuilders retreated as rising rates threaten to curb demand for mortgages and new homes. D.R. Horton slid $1.94, to $34.33. Pulte Homes fell $1.93, to $41.97.
 Earlier, a government report showed that United States housing starts declined more than expected. Builders broke ground on an annual rate of 2.009 million housing units in August, according to the Commerce Department.
 A gauge of retail shares fell 1.8 percent amid concerns that higher rates could crimp consumer spending. Kohl's, a department store chain, lost $1.56, to $49.90. Home Depot, the nation's biggest home-improvement chain, declined 82 cents, to $38.71. Target, the second-largest United States discount retailer, fell $1.39, to $50.84.
 Crude oil, which reached a record $70.85 last month, surged 7 percent on Monday amid storm fears. Yesterday, futures fell 1.16 percent, to $66.23 a barrel in New York, as concern eased that Hurricane Rita, which is expected to reach landfall in Texas this weekend, would hamper refining and production.
 Circuit City Stores jumped 92 cents, or 5.9 percent, to $16.43 for the best performance in the S.&P. 500. The company reported second-quarter profit of a penny a share. Analysts had expected a loss of 3 cents, according to Thomson Financial.
 Goldman Sachs Group slipped 23 cents, to $118.05, even after it reported record third-quarter net income of $3.25 a share. That exceeded the average analyst estimate of $2.38 in a Thomson survey.
 Almost three stocks fell for every one that advanced on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.73 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 19 percent more than the three-month daily average.
 United States Treasuries maturing in five years or less fell after the Federal Reserve increased its benchmark interest rate. The two-year note fell 4/32, to 100 1/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 3.97 percent, from 3.91 percent on Monday. The 10-year note rose 1/32, to 100 2/32, and the yield fell to 4.24 percent, from 4.25 percent on Monday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.750
High Rate: 3.210
Coupon Yield: 3.263
Low Rate: 3.170
Median Rate: 3.190
Total applied for: $29,420,890
Accepted: $12,157,890
Noncompetitive: $100,113

The four-week bills mature Oct. 20, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); DEPARTMENT STORES (77%); HOME CENTERS (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Government Bonds; Credit; United States Economy; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); D R HORTON INC (58%); PULTEGROUP INC (53%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); DHI (NYSE) (58%); PHM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



482 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: At Least Some Can Wake Up and Smell Coffee in New Orleans

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 19 

 BODY:
Ever since Hurricane Katrina uprooted his family, his home and his daily routine, Larry Zehnder, a quality assurance manager at the Folgers coffee plant here, has been missing a familiar smell. But this week, as dozens of coffee cans rolled off a partly restored production line, the aroma of fresh roasted beans reassured him that a recovery was on the way.
 Three weeks ago, Procter & Gamble's New Orleans coffee operations came to a halt, shutting down four sites that account for production and storage of well over 70 percent of its Folgers and Millstone brands. Many of the company's employees, including Mr. Zehnder, lost their homes. Much of an area a few miles from the operation was surrounded by debris.
By Monday, though, P.&G.'s coffee bean silo at the Port of New Orleans was taking new shipments, and its main coffee roasting plant and distribution center for the nation resembled nothing so much as two self-sustaining small towns. Trucks haul in water, a helicopter and emergency medical team are on call, and more than 120 mobile homes lining the parking lots for employees. 
 ''We have to stay,'' said Emory Zimmer, the Folgers plant manager here. ''There is no other strategic site for the company.'' Besides, he added, ''when over half your 550 employees have lost their homes, you have to take care of them.''
 The Folgers factory is the first major manufacturing site to reopen in New Orleans, and getting it running again is a symbolic victory that local politicians are proud to point to this week as evidence that the city's battered economy will ultimately rise again. Even President Bush dropped by on Tuesday for the reopening.
 But the rush to resume production was also driven by a hard-nosed business calculation. Procter's executives were prepared to pay the price of millions of dollars in added production costs and logistical hurdles to maintain reliable supplies of one of their most lucrative and recognizable brands. 
 Just half of the four main production lines at the plant are expected to be running by the end of the week; the smaller Millstone plant remains closed. Managers said it might be months before they were operating at full capacity, meaning that consumers may sometimes find certain Folgers coffee products missing from the stores. Still, that is better than managers expected when they first surveyed the storm damage. 
 ''Getting the plant up and running is absolutely critical to maintaining Folgers leadership share position because we are entering the peak consumption period,'' said Doug McGraw, vice president of Procter's global coffee unit. After overtaking Maxwell House about four years ago, Folgers has widened its lead to a 28 percent market share, according to data from Information Resources that excludes Wal-Mart sales.
 Coffee accounted for about 3 percent of Procter's $56.7 billion in annual sales for the fiscal year that ended in June. This week, the company estimated that hurricane damage would probably lead to a charge of about 1 to 2 cents a share. That suggests added costs of $25 million to $50 million. But Procter reaffirmed its earnings estimates, saying that higher sales from other products would offset any losses. 
 Restoring the operation required remarkable improvisation. Mr. Zimmer rode out the storm in Hammond, La., about 30 miles away, after deciding on the Saturday morning before Katrina hit to close the plant. He said it was the first time production had been halted because of a hurricane since Folgers came to New Orleans in 1960. When he returned, Mr. Zimmer found none of the buildings in ruins, but all had taken serious blows.
 A small group of Procter employees gained access to the plant on the Friday after the storm swept through. They found that the roofs and doors of at least one silo containing beans were blown open, and it was no longer safe to use. There were also scores of small holes in the roof and small puddles of water, some several inches deep, dotting a normally spotless factory floor. 
 As more employees returned over the weekend, either shuttled in by helicopter or in a police-escorted bus, they began removing the wet cardboard and packaging materials, quarantining it nearby. Senior plant managers joined factory workers in scrubbing the 500,000-square-foot plant with squeegees to prevent mold. ''Everyone, at all levels of the organization, was wet-mopping,'' Mr. Zehnder said.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Zimmer and his managers in New Orleans, working with Procter executives in Cincinnati and others in Alexandria, La., where Procter makes detergents like Tide, began plotting how to get the production and distribution systems back. With regular telephone and mobile phone service extremely limited, it was difficult for Procter executives in the home office to communicate with their managers in the field. 
 In Alexandria, Procter managers began reaching out to employees, establishing a hotline and giving any of its workers harmed by the storm their paychecks as well as a $5,000 interest-free loan. On Monday, the last one called in to report. 
 But with 35 percent of its New Orleans coffee workers residing in St. Bernard Parish and many others in Slidell -- areas that were particularly devastated by the storm -- Procter executives realized they had no choice but to take responsibility for housing their employees. Managers placed calls to manufacturers and dealers to buy dozens of mobile homes. 
 In Cincinnati, Procter executives began working on logistical issues, reshuffling schedules for local managers who had no working computers -- only clipboards and pens -- to manage deliveries. Others worked on ways to ration existing supplies of Folgers coffee to retailers and grocers to minimize disruptions.
 Still, the biggest questions were the ones faced by managers in New Orleans. How do you run a manufacturing plant in a city without electricity, usable water or natural gas? 
 The first problem, Mr. Zimmer said, was solved within a week when Entergy moved quickly to restore power to crucial sites. Gas returned early last week after a similar effort.
 Obtaining safe water -- necessary for washing the coffee beans before roasting and for making instant coffee -- has been more of a challenge. The company is currently hauling in water with tanker trucks. But with costs mounting and traffic delays inevitable, Procter managers say they may begin drilling for water soon.
 While visiting the Folgers coffee plant on Monday, Louisiana Gov. Kathleen B. Blanco said that Procter's prompt decision to reopen gave promise to region that had been economically and emotionally devastated by the storm.
 ''Anyone who thinks New Orleans businesses are lost and not coming back needs to wake up and smell the coffee,'' she said. But in an interview, Governor Blanco conceded that ''it's going to be more challenging for small businesses'' that do not have the financial resources or strategic reasons to stay.
 Today, the biggest issue for Procter plant managers is organizing temporary housing where hundreds of its employees are expected to live, perhaps for months. The company has quickly assembled two mobile home villages in its parking lots. Procter paid for 20 trailers at its distribution center; the Federal Emergency Management Agency lent the company another 100.
 So far, more than 100 employees are living in these instant company towns; on Monday night, workers were trying to pick up a television signal for the New Orleans Saints football game against the New York Giants while cooking on outdoor grills.
 ''It's not the best of experiences,'' said Mr. Zehnder, exhausted from the stress of losing his home and the long hours at the factory over the last three weeks. But he is committed to his job and looking on the bright side of mobile home life. ''I'm sharing it with four other guys, but it's still better than a tent.''

 MARKET SHARE: 18

Other
SALES IN MILLIONS: 1,524
ANNUAL GROWTH: +7.8
MARKET SHARE: 54

(Source by Information Resources Inc.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cleanup continued after Hurricane Katrina at the Folgers coffee plant, where production resumed this week.
 Bob Edrington washed his dishes at a Procter & Gamble distribution center, where trailers provided temporary homes for company workers. (Photographs by Mark Lyons for The New York Times)Chart: ''In Your Cup''Folgers, which roasts more than 50 percent of its coffee in New Orleans, is America's leading home coffee brand. Data are for the 52 weeks ended Sept. 4.FolgersSALES IN MILLIONS: $784ANNUAL GROWTH: +4.8%MARKET SHARE: 28%Maxwell HouseSALES IN MILLIONS: 491ANNUAL GROWTH: -3.5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (90%); COFFEE (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); WEATHER (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); BRAND EQUITY (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); BRANDING (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (72%); PARAMEDICS (52%) Coffee; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Factories and Industrial Plants; Coffee

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Procter & Gamble Co; Folgers Coffee Co

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



483 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Unswayed By Storm, Fed Raises Key Rate

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Saying that Hurricane Katrina was unlikely to pose a ''persistent threat'' to the economy, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Tuesday for the 11th time in a row and signaled that more increases were on the way.
 In an unusually long statement, the central bank acknowledged that the hurricane's devastation was likely to cause higher energy prices, higher joblessness and greater uncertainty in the months ahead.
But it said the hurricane had not shaken its confidence about longer-term growth, and it left little doubt that its top priority was still to head off inflationary pressures.
 The decision lifted the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks by a quarter-point, to 3.75 percent, the 11th rate increase since the central bank began raising rates in June 2004. 
 ''The widespread devastation in the gulf region, the associated dislocation of economic activity and the boost to energy prices imply that spending, production and employment will be set back in the near term,'' the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement.
 But it continued: ''While these unfortunate developments have increased uncertainty about the near-term economic performance, it is the committee's view that they do not pose a more persistent threat.''
 In an important hint about its desire to keep raising rates for a while longer, the central bank repeated its long-held expectation that ''policy accommodation'' -- meaning low interest rates -- could be reversed at a ''measured'' pace. 
 In response, the stock market fell yesterday. The Dow Jones industrial average went down 76.11 points, to 10,481.52; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.8 percent.
 In a rare departure from the Fed's normal unity, one member of the policy committee, Mark W. Olson, voted against the rate increase.
 It was the first dissent since June 2003, and a sign that Tuesday's decision was unusually difficult. 
 But it did not necessarily portend a serious rift within the Fed. Mr. Olson, a commercial banker by profession, has focused primarily on bank regulation and has rarely taken strong stands on macroeconomic policy. 
 Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs, said policy makers were taking a much harder line about inflation than investors had been assuming.
 ''In our view, the financial markets are much too complacent about what a decision to keep tightening means at this juncture,'' Mr. McKelvey wrote before the Fed decision came out. ''If under these circumstances the F.O.M.C. is prepared to keep going, then this means that the committee is more worried about the longer-term risk of higher inflation than the shorter-term risk of a collapse in growth.''
 In the first two weeks after Hurricane Katrina, many Wall Street analysts speculated that the Fed would either pause in raising rates or signal that the process would end fairly soon.
 Historically, the central bank has taken a dim view of changing policy in response to a natural disaster, even a big one. Fed officials, and many economists, contend that the economic impact of such calamities is usually local and usually temporary.
 The normal pattern is for the economy to slow and for unemployment to rise in the immediate aftermath. But any slowdown is usually followed by an even bigger jump in economic activity as rebuilding begins.
 The big uncertainty this month is whether Hurricane Katrina, which disabled major oil refineries and offshore drilling platforms, will cause a more enduring downturn.
 But the Fed, which has been raising the cost of borrowing since June 2004, showed little appetite for a ''wait and see'' approach.
 It noted that the economy had been expanding ''at a good pace'' before the hurricane. It also noted that ''higher energy prices and other costs have the potential to add to inflation pressures.'' 
 Most important, it repeated phrases suggesting that money remains too cheap for comfort. It said the prospects for inflation and growth are ''roughly equal.'' It implied that monetary policy is still ''accommodative,'' meaning that interest rates are not yet back to a ''neutral'' level that allows growth without inflation. And it repeated its expectation about raising rates at a ''pace that is likely to be measured.''
 Ethan Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers, said that neither the hurricane nor the surge in oil prices constituted a good reason to relax monetary policy.
 Both the hurricane damage and higher energy prices amount to a ''supply shock'' that leads to higher costs. By keeping interest rates low, the Fed would be stoking consumer demand and possibly driving prices up even higher.
 ''There's not really anything you can do about a supply shock, other than repair the damage,'' Mr. Harris said. ''As a policy maker you have to be very careful about putting a lot of stimulus into the economy at a time when capacity has been impaired.'' 
 Analysts continue to debate among themselves about how much more the Fed will raise rates. Most now predict that it will raise them a quarter-point at each of its two remaining meetings this year, in October and December, which would take the federal funds rate to 4.25 percent.
 In its statement, the Fed conceded that inflation remains mild and that higher energy prices have yet to drive other prices higher. 
 But Fed officials are increasingly concerned that low interest rates have fueled too much speculation in housing and too much complacency among investors toward risk. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); WEATHER (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); BANKING LAW (72%) United States Economy; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Credit; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Mark W Olson; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Mississippi ; Louisiana; Alabama

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



484 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: It's 'My N.H.L.,' and Peter Puck Has Left the Building

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The National Hockey League is about to answer a question vital to its future: How do you market a brand severely damaged by a season-long lockout?
 The league is about to begin an advertising campaign called My N.H.L., which has as its central focus an episodic series of cinematically produced TV commercials that follow a hockey ''warrior,'' starting with his female partner ritualistically dressing him in his equipment. It follows him as he waits for the right moment to align a slap shot, then follows the puck from its point of view and ends with the fans' celebration of a victory. Hockey, the campaign says, is a hot-blooded, psychological battleground. 
''When we showed it to Brendan Shanahan, he said, 'Wow, the warrior, that's what I feel like,''' Bernadette Mansur, a spokeswoman for the league, said referring to a left wing for the Detroit Red Wings.
 The commercials, only one of which is finished, are filled with dramatic music, tight close-ups, flashbacks, low angles of ice action, special effects and quotations from the book ''The Art of War'' by the Chinese military philosopher Sun Tzu. They were filmed in an arena in Chilliwack, British Columbia, in front of local fans in the Vancouver area.
 ''We wanted to get deep inside the soul of the game to reach the rabid fan who is starved for hockey and the casual fan who might have overlooked it,'' said Thomas C. Cotton, the president of Conductor, the agency based in Santa Monica, Calif., that devised the campaign.
 The five 30-second commercials are designed to unfold as cliffhangers, one chapter leading into the next. Ultimately, they will be repackaged into a five-minute minimovie that can run as extended commercials in movie theaters and possibly at sponsors' retail locations. The commercials will be carried nationally and locally, and will be customized with the star warrior in different uniforms to accommodate each team's telecasts.
 The league had hired Conductor, which specializes in marketing newly released movies, aware that a lockout was possible, but well before the labor strife that led to the season's cancellation. During that period, said Ed Horne, the president of N.H.L. Enterprises, ''we spent a lot of time looking at the brand of the N.H.L., defining and articulating what it is, talking to fans and the hockey community.''
 The conclusions were that if the league returned with improved economics, as a more entertaining product and as a sport in which all teams have a chance to be competitive, the fans would return as well. The new collective bargaining agreement is supposed to take care of the economics, while rule changes and improvements in TV technology are expected to make the game more entertaining.
 ''We wanted to return big, bold and relevant,'' Horne said.
 But the challenge is formidable. ''We'd never worked on a brand that had been pulled off the shelf for a year, and was this big,'' Cotton said.
 Conductor's approach is to reintroduce the N.H.L. similar to the way the agency devises appeals to maximize the opening weekend for new films. ''We're in an emotional business,'' said Cotton, whose company produced the campaigns for ''Spider-Man'' and ''The Hulk.'' He added: ''Hockey fans have a strong emotional connection to the sport. They love it.'' 
 Gary Bettman, the league's commissioner, said he hoped the campaign would persuade hard-core and casual fans that ''it's our time again, and we'll be better than ever, to come on back and enjoy what we have to offer.''
 The league, he said, has exceeded its business expectations since the end of the lockout, from its new television and satellite radio deals to ticket sales, which are ahead of the rate of renewals generated for the 2003-4 season.
 ''The loyal fan has come back,'' Horne said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); LOCKOUTS (89%); FILM (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); INFOMERCIALS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); CINEMA ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); MOVIE FILMING (76%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (60%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); DETROIT RED WINGS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (55%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



485 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: CONGRESS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Prepare Plans To Finance Storm Relief

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Conservative House Republicans plan to recommend on Wednesday more than $500billion in savings over 10 years to compensate for the costs of Hurricane Katrina as lawmakers continue to struggle to develop a consensus on the fiscal approach to the disaster.
 At the top of a partial list of the potential cuts being circulated on Tuesday were previously suggested ideas like delaying the start of the new Medicare prescription drug coverage for one year to save $31billion and eliminating $25billion in projects from the newly enacted transportation measure.
The list also proposed eliminating the Moon-Mars initiative that NASA announced on Monday, for $44billion in savings; ending support for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, $4billion; cutting taxpayer payments for the national political conventions and the presidential election campaign fund, $600million; and charging federal employees for parking, $1.54billion. 
 ''What House conservatives will demonstrate through Operation Offset is that there is more than enough room in the federal budget to provide for the needs of the families affected by Katrina without raising taxes,'' said a House Republican aide who is working with lawmakers on the proposals and who insisted on anonymity because the package would not be made public until Wednesday. 
 The suggestions are certain to draw serious opposition from other lawmakers who consider those programs essential, illustrating the difficulty faced by the majority Republicans in finding acceptable ways to offset the hurricane costs.
 Before the list was made public, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority leader, declared that delaying the Medicare plan was a nonstarter. Mr. DeLay also expressed skepticism that most lawmakers would want to revisit the transportation bill, saying he would be reluctant to sacrifice the projects that he won for his district in the Houston area. 
 ''My earmarks are pretty important to building an economy in that region,'' Mr. DeLay said of the local projects he backed in the bill. A watchdog group said those items totaled more than $114million. 
 Mr. DeLay said Republicans would press ahead this year with their planned tax cuts, though Treasury Secretary John W. Snow told a trade association on Tuesday that some tax measures might have to be delayed, including a repeal of the estate tax and the effort to make permanent some cuts instituted earlier in the Bush administration. 
 ''I think it will push to the back burner some issues that otherwise would have been on the agenda now,'' Mr. Snow said in a speech to the National Association of Federal Credit Unions.
 Senate Republicans met for more than an hour on Tuesday with Joshua B. Bolten, director of the Office of Management and Budget, to try to hash out an approach to hurricane-related spending, a problem that lawmakers acknowledge is among the most difficult they have faced.
 Senators said they continued to press the White House to name a prominent individual to oversee the relief effort, creating a central contact point for the flow of money, as well as many legislative proposals. 
 In the House, Democratic leaders called for establishing a special commission to try to prevent fraud and abuse in spending on the recovery.
 ''We need to make sure that federal contracts are awarded based on confidence and integrity instead of cronyism and greed,'' Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, said. ''And at long last, we need to start putting the interests of the taxpayers ahead of the private contractor.'' 
 Senate Republican leaders promised to be diligent in overseeing the money, which they said was being spent more slowly than immediately after the storm. They said they would keep the deficit in mind. 
 Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, said Congress needed ''to make sure that that money is spent wisely, that it is spent with full accountability, that it is spent with fiscal responsibility and transparency.''
 There was a sharp split among Republicans. Some were more insistent on clearly defined cuts than others. 
 ''There is no agreement to pay for this at all,'' Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said. ''Those of us who would like to pay for it are very much a minority within our caucus.''
 Mr. DeLay said estimates that the recovery and rebuilding effort could cost $200billion or more were unfounded. Other lawmakers disputed that, saying none of the rebuilding costs have been considered, as the Louisiana delegation is preparing a multibillion-dollar aid request.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (79%); CONSERVATISM (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (75%); ESTATE TAX (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); MARS (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



486 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: A French Lesson: Taunts About Race Can Boomerang

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The French news media were captivated by Hurricane Katrina, pointing out how the American government's faltering response brought into plain view the sad lot of black Americans. But this time the French, who have long criticized America's racism, could not overlook the parallels at home. 
 ''It is true that the devastations of Katrina have cruelly shed light on the wounds of America, ghettoization, poverty, criminality, racial and territorial tensions,'' Le Figaro, the conservative daily, said in an editorial on Sept. 8. ''In France, those in disagreement ran to pelt the 'American model' and the neoconservative president. But have they just looked at the state of their own country?'' 
 Only four days before, a fire had swept an apartment in south Paris, killing 12 people, most of them black. And just days before that, 17 black people died in a single blaze. Since April, 48 people, most of them children and all of them black, have died in four separate fires in Paris.
 In neighborhoods like Chateau Rouge, filled with the hundreds of thousands of nonwhite immigrants, some Arabs but mainly blacks, whom France has absorbed over the years from former colonies in Africa and the Caribbean, you feel the anger.
 ''It could be a coincidence,'' said Sissouo Cheickh, bitterly, ''but one question the French have to answer is: of 48 people who died, why were 48 black?''
 Mr. Cheickh, 28, got a university degree in France, but rather than working for someone else and running into what he and other young blacks say is France's low glass ceiling, he decided to start his own business. Six months ago he scraped together some money and opened a store. 
 ''You see these fabrics? All from Africa, from my family,'' said Mr. Cheickh, who came from Mali, as he gestured toward colorful rolls of cloth. 
 France has long boasted of itself as the cradle of human rights and a bulwark against racism. It regularly denounced racism in the United States, and the road from Harlem to Paris was wide, inviting talented American blacks like the dancer Josephine Baker, musicians like Sidney Bechet and writers like Richard Wright and James Baldwin.
 But French insistence on the equality of man leaves them in a bind, their black critics say, perpetuating the fiction of a society without minorities.
 The census in France does not list people by race. Hence, while blacks are thought to number about 1.5 million, of a total population of 59 million, no one really knows the exact number, which is estimated to be far higher.
 There are virtually no black people in corporate France, and blacks have almost no political representation. No black person sits in the National Assembly or in a regional parliament, and only a smattering are found in city councils. The European Union finances programs for minorities but not in France, because of its refusal to recognize minorities.
 So, today, blacks are not much on the French agenda. After the recent fires, the interior minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, proposed a program of affirmative action and a requirement that resumes conceal a person's ethnic or racial identity. But the rest of the cabinet, including the minister for equal opportunity, rejected the ideas, saying they offended the fundamental principle of equality.
 ''The French like to say, 'Blacks are a social problem, not racial,''' said Gaston Kelman, 52, a native of Cameroon who has written widely on France's black population. ''So our institutions have no means to overcome it.''
 Until recently, virtually all blacks were on the lowest rung of the social ladder. Gradually, however, a younger generation is, like Mr. Cheickh, gaining education, starting businesses and gradually giving birth to a black middle class. They feel the discrimination they say is rampant in French society and are beginning to resist.
 After graduating with a degree in economics and data processing, Claude Vuaki tried his hand at several jobs before deciding to start his own business. Together with his wife, Kibe, he opened a beauty salon in central Paris. But Mr. Vuaki's search for start-up capital was typical of the black experience. ''They said right off, no loan, no money,'' said Mr. Vuaki, 52. He and his wife managed to gather some family savings and self-financed their shop. 
 Now the business is so successful that they plan a second shop, in Nice or Cannes. Mrs. Vuaki travels regularly to the United States to study African-American hairstyles.
 Still, Mr. Vuaki remains one of a relatively small minority. Most blacks are employed in menial jobs, in construction or transportation. What encourages people like Mr. Vuaki is that the glass ceiling often felt by young blacks who get an education is not discouraging them, but increasingly prompting them to strike out on their own.
 ''A lot of people I know want to create something of their own,'' he said, often in landscaping, construction and delivery services.
 Still, Mr. Kelman said this slight opening is not inhibiting many young Africans with an education to strike off for Britain, Canada and the United States, where they think they will find greater opportunities. 
 Asked whether the French people are racist, Mr. Kelman replied: ''It's a racism of nuance. Every Frenchman would immediately say, 'One of my closest friends is black.'''
 Mr. Kelman said government housing and employment policies create an ''institutionalized ghetto-building.'' He described with a laugh a typical job interview for a black candidate. When the boss realizes the candidate is black, he begins praising the sights and sounds of Africa he discovered on his last vacation there: the broad beaches, beautiful greenery, vast sky. Needless to say, the candidate doesn't get the job.
 In the schools, white pupils are typically encouraged to continue studying while black children are often steered toward vocational studies. The influence of African-Americans, through television, films and sports, is everywhere. Some young blacks turn to Afrocentrism, Mr. Kelman said, others to rappers and others to black Muslim groups. What they don't turn to is mainstream French society.
 ''We're at an impasse,'' Mr. Kelman said.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 30, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Letter From Europe article on Sept. 21, about the status of African immigrants and other black residents of France, referred incorrectly to their representation in the National Assembly and other political bodies. The assemblies indeed include black representatives -- from overseas provinces like Martinique and Guadeloupe.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The ''Be Happy Coiffure'' salon of Claude, in background, and Kibe Vuaki, in foreground. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)
 Fleeing a fire, one of a recent series in African neighborhoods of Paris. The French news media, which had been pointing at New Orleans and American racial inequality, were reminded to look at the racial divide in their own country. (Photo by Olivier Laban Mattei/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); HURRICANES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); FIRES (69%); GENDER EQUALITY (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); WOMEN (63%); WRITERS (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (98%); AFRICA (92%); MALI (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



487 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Sleight of Budgeting

 BODY:
The decision by Congressional leaders to delay action on their tax-and-spending bills was most welcome. The bills' broad outlines were drawn up pre-Katrina, and were objectionable even then: spending cuts totaling $35 billion over five years in programs for low-and moderate-income families, and $70 billion in new tax breaks, mostly for the most affluent families. Counting interest, the bills would increase the deficit by $40 billion over five years. 
 Post-Katrina, those plans would be scandalous, highlighting the skewed priorities that have put the country into a tight financial spot as it copes both with hurricane damage and with the social and economic rifts that Katrina has exposed.
Unfortunately, it's increasingly unclear why Congress imposed the delay. (The deadlines were shifted into October and early November.) Initially, it appeared that lawmakers needed time to recast their priorities -- away from budget cuts that would reduce the aid for hurricane victims and other needy Americans, and away from high-end tax cuts that would needlessly starve the Treasury at a time of mounting rebuilding costs. 
 Now, however, it appears that postponement may be only a tactical move to recast Katrina as the event that requires Congress to hack away at existing programs to pre-empt unacceptably large deficits from reconstruction spending. That's false.
 Katrina cannot and should not be paid for by cutting government programs, unless the goal is to end up with a government that's even less effective than it was before Katrina. True, there's fat that Congress should trim. But even if members of Congress were willing to rescind the porkiest of the pork spending they approved in the highway bill passed last summer, doing that would raise about $24 billion. 
 That would be a nice offset for the estimated $200 billion price tag for Katrina, but hardly enough. Bigger cuts that have been suggested, like delaying the start of the Medicare drug coverage plan, are not workable, not to mention political nonstarters for President Bush and for Republican leaders. 
 What is needed most is more revenue, and that requires Congress to stop cutting taxes.
 But Congress appears to be angling to proceed with business as usual while disguising what it is doing. If all goes according to plan, Congress will take up the spending-cut bill weeks before the tax-cut bill. 
 That would be the first time lawmakers had split such deficit-bloating legislation into two separate bills, raising the suspicion that they're trying to hide the fact that $35 billion in spending cuts, heartless and misguided as they are, would be used to help pay for the $70 billion in new tax breaks -- not for deficit reduction and certainly not for Katrina. 
 The lawmakers' only responsible course of action is to give up on tax cuts, but they are balking. Wedded to tax cuts himself, President Bush cannot lead them where they need to go. It's up to the American people to push their representatives in the right direction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); MEDICARE (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (69%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (68%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (63%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Editorials; Taxation; Public Opinion; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Repair Services; Law and Legislation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States; Louisiana; Mississippi; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



488 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Katrina, the Mississippi River and the Risks of the Coming Harvest

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
In 1953, a young documentary filmmaker named Charles Dee Sharp traveled down the Mississippi River, shooting still photographs for a film he never made. One of Sharp's pictures -- recently published by the Center for American Places in a book called ''The Mississippi River in 1953'' -- is a color shot of rows of new red cornpickers awaiting shipment in Moline, Ill. Behind them the surface of the river looks like a sheet of mercury. Those cornpickers, long since antiquated, could harvest only two rows of corn -- in the cob -- at a time. They were scaled to much smaller farms and lower yields than you find in the Midwest these days, where fields are now harvested by enormous combines that shell the corn as they pick it. 
 Those old pickers -- so bright and new in 1953 -- are a visual reminder of the vital, complex connection between America's agricultural heartland and the Mississippi River. In a good year, like 2004, the Mississippi smoothly ferries some 60 percent of the corn and soybeans bound for export downriver to the Port of New Orleans. And in a year like 2005 -- well, there has never been a year like 2005. There has been serious drought along the river's tributaries, the Missouri and the Ohio, and that has resulted in low water along the main stem of the river as well. Industrial traffic has been slowed considerably, and portions of the Ohio have been temporarily closed.
And then came Katrina, which essentially disabled the Lower Mississippi for shipping, halting the southward movement of grain for export and other farm products and the northward movement of farm inputs like fertilizer and fuel. Last week, the Coast Guard began lifting some restrictions on navigation on the Mississippi well above New Orleans. But navigation aids have been torn out of the river further south, and power has not yet been fully restored to the grain-handling facilities along the river.
 What this means for farmers is yet another year of crisis, and possibly one of the worst in a long time. In an ordinary year, a drop in corn production -- like the 12 percent slump forecast for Illinois this year -- would mean better prices in commodity markets, but a real loss on the farms. But farmers in the Midwest, where the harvest is just beginning, are going to be looking at an unexpected glut of grain with nowhere to go. 
 Each week some 35 million bushels of export corn moves through New Orleans. That has come to a complete stop. Americans tend to think of farmers as producers, but they are also enormous consumers of fuel and petroleum-based chemicals. They will be paying much higher prices for those products, like the rest of us, for some time to come.
 This fall is going to see a big drop in farm revenue and a big increase in farm expenses, at a time when the federal government is trying hard to curb farmers' appetite for subsidies. Once again, any movement toward limiting federal price supports will be overwhelmed by emergency funds needed to cover losses.
 Katrina has reminded all of us, all too vividly, that the Mississippi is a complex chain of dams, locks, cutoffs, ports, channels, levees and navigational markers, rather than a natural river. And when the river system comes to a halt, compromising the well-being of every farm or business that lies economically upstream of the actual water itself, the only real concern must be to get the system going again. Yet the system is so complex that it is easy to lose sight of the hidden hydraulic system of the river itself. 
 We tend to think of the Mississippi as breadth and depth and flow, the qualities that float those long chains of grain barges downriver. Sometimes -- only rarely -- the surface traffic stops. But the river never does, and it carries with it, especially in spring, the outwash of all those fields along all those tributaries.
 The traffic in grain is carefully regulated and monitored. The traffic in topsoil and all the chemicals that have been applied to it on Midwestern farms is not. The result is an oxygen-deficient dead zone in the Gulf of Mexico. This year that zone, which can grow to the size of New Jersey, began to appear in March instead of June. There has been some speculation that Katrina's turbulence may have stirred the gulf enough to help break up the dead zone. But in the long run it will make no difference. Beneath the surface economy of the Mississippi River, there is an agricultural economy that is steadily eating away at those same farm fields and steadily killing the gulf.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); RIVERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FARM LABOR (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); CORN FARMING (75%); CORN MARKETS (75%); CROP PRODUCTION (75%); DROUGHT (74%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (71%); WEATHER (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (68%); HURRICANES (64%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (64%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (62%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Agriculture ; Editorials; Floods; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: Verlyn Klinkenborg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) MISSISSIPPI RIVER (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) Mississippi River; Mississippi; Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



489 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: A Harsh Fight Over the Fate of a Stately Old Hotel

BYLINE: By LYNN WADDELL

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla., Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The Belleview Biltmore Hotel still exudes some of the grandeur of a time when tycoons like its builder, the railroad magnate Henry Plant, spared little expense to entertain visitors. There is a ballroom with a stained-glass ceiling, a hidden stairway for children and their nannies, and hallways wide enough for hoop skirts.
 But the romance of the hotel has faded, replaced by an acrimonious fight over whether it should be saved.
''This has become a lightning rod for this community,'' said Ed Armstrong, a local real estate lawyer who represents surrounding homeowners in Belleair, a wealthy city of about 4,500 near St. Petersburg.
 A yearlong fight over the fate of the Biltmore has led to the resignation of a city attorney, divided preservationists and created an even wider gulf between groups that advocate a new Florida and those who want to protect the old one. City Commission meetings have drawn overflow crowds, and yard signs championing ''Save the Biltmore'' dot the lush, tidy yards of Belleair. 
 The dispute began with reports that DeBartolo Development, which had an option to buy the 388-room hotel, intended to replace it with condominiums. At a City Commission meeting last week, a lawyer for DeBartolo publicly revealed the plans: razing two wings of the building and erecting 180 condominiums, while maintaining the Biltmore's original 145 rooms as a hotel. 
 That was not enough to satisfy preservationists, who wanted the whole structure saved and who summarily booed the proposal at the meeting.
 DeBartolo's option has since expired, opening the door for others, said Vincent Sanfilippo, chief investment officer of the Urdang Group, which manages the Honeywell pension fund, the current owner of the hotel. What that means for the future of the Biltmore is unclear. ''Our parameters are entirely economic,'' Mr. Sanfilippo said. ''What the next buyer does or doesn't do with it is up to them.''
 The fate of the Biltmore has placed Belleair officials in the center of a fight being played out around the country: preservationists attempting to protect the vestiges of the past versus developers in need of real estate to meet current and future housing demands. The problem is especially acute in Florida, which gets about 900 new residents every day and where undeveloped coastline is becoming a mere memory.
 ''As land values increase, it makes sense for owners to convert their property to maximize its value,'' said Lawrence Yun, an economist with the National Association of Realtors. ''The soaring trend is condo development.'' 
 Having arisen from the wilds of 1,000 undeveloped acres along the Gulf of Mexico in 1897, the Belleview Biltmore, with its white siding and green-shingled roof, is the bedrock of Belleair. In 1980 it was placed on the National Register of Historic Places.
 With 875,000 square feet, the hotel is touted by local historians as the nation's largest occupied wooden structure. But it was ravaged by last year's Hurricane Jeanne. Many of its steep peaks are covered with tarps ragged from this year's storms. 
 Richard Wilhelm, the hotel's chief executive officer, said the Biltmore did not bring in enough money to cover its debt. 
 Martin Smith, the Biltmore's manager, said that ''like any property of its age, it has its challenges.'' He said repairs to the roof would be made once a settlement had been reached with the hotel's insurance company. 
 The uncertainty surrounding the Biltmore has landed it on the National Trust for Historic Preservation's list of 11 most endangered properties. ''It would be a tragic and a great loss to Florida to lose this hotel,'' said Richard Moe, president of the trust. ''There are very few of these 19th-century hotels left, even though they may still be successful financially.'' 
 But developers and many property owners argue that historic hotels like the Biltmore are often money pits, and their preservation for only overnight rentals is too costly. 
 ''We've had national experts and architects who say it's not economically viable,'' Ron Weaver, a lawyer for DeBartolo, said last week. 
 Controversy over the city's handling of the Biltmore dilemma resulted in the resignation earlier this year of the city attorney, Joel Tew. He stepped down after The St. Petersburg Times revealed that he had secretly met with DeBartolo to discuss their plans and had failed to tell city officials that he had previously worked for DeBartolo. 
 Then a group called Save the Biltmore split in two after many members decided to back another development group led by Rory Hiller, a local Realtor who is among those negotiating to buy the Biltmore. Mr. Hiller said he would not knock down the Biltmore and would keep some of the rooms as a hotel while converting others to condominiums. The original preservationist group has harshly criticized the splinter group, Friends of the Biltmore.
 Members of the two groups were among 250 residents who rallied at a recent City Commission meeting to support a new historic preservation ordinance and then a week later to oppose DeBartolo's plan.
 A listing on the National Register of Historic Places does not save a property from destruction. It is up to state or local governments to decide whether to preserve such buildings, said Mr. Moe, of the national trust, which lobbies to preserve historic buildings and provides grants. 
 Mr. Hiller estimated that it would cost $40 million to buy the Biltmore and $80 million to renovate it. At that price, he said, keeping the entire property as a hotel would mean room rates of $1,200 a night. ''Even I wouldn't pay that,'' Mr. Hiller said. 
 The Biltmore's financial burden began long before the hotel became outdated. Henry Plant began selling off its surrounding 1,000 acres in part to finance its construction, said the hotel's tour guide, Sharon Delahanty. The property has since dwindled to 22 acres; a long line of owners sold some of its prime amenities, including a golf course and most of its land on the Intracoastal Waterway, to keep the hotel operating. 
 Mrs. Delahanty said the resort had financial problems partly because it operated only four months out of the year until 1985. 
 Mayor George E. Mariani Jr. said Belleair had indirectly been subsidizing the hotel for years. Previous owners, claiming financial hardship, succeeded in getting the county to decrease the hotel's assessed value. The hotel, once assessed at $29 million, is now worth $7.5 million for taxing purposes. ''We've got homes in Belleair that are assessed for that much,'' Mr. Mariani said. 
 Like other historic hotels, the Belleview Biltmore faces more competition than it did 100 years ago. Those competitors cater more to travelers who demand amenities like chain restaurants, digital television and wireless Internet access. 
 ''It used to be one of the only places in town,'' said Mr. Weaver, the lawyer for DeBartolo. ''Now there are hundreds of hotels here.'' 
 As he sat across from a stairway that looked like one from ''Gone With the Wind,'' Mr. Smith, the manager, said the historic hotel appealed to a different type of tourist, one who relishes a vacation amid a grandiose historical background. 
 Staff members and some customers have been worried by rumors of the hotel's possible closing, but Mrs. Delahanty said the publicity has also increased the number of visitors. 
 ''We've been having 60 to 70 people on our historic tours,'' Mrs. Delahanty said. ''Many people probably want to see it before it's possibly destroyed. But we're not going to let that happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Belleview Biltmore Hotel in Florida, built in 1897 and added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980, is for sale. (Photographs by Rob Mattson for The New York Times)Map of Florida shows the location of Belleair: The hotel is in Belleair, a wealthy town of 4,500 on the Gulf Coast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); WOMEN (72%); HISTORIC SITES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



490 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: G.M. to Stress Fuel Efficiency in Promoting Its Next S.U.V. Line 

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
General Motors plans to market its next generation of large sport utility vehicles by promoting their gas mileage. 
 Talking about fuel economy in commercials for vehicles like the Chevrolet Suburban might seem counterintuitive, particularly since large S.U.V.'s get mileage in the teens at a time when Americans have become more sensitive to what it costs to fill up.
But G.M. executives said they would stress improvements that have been made in fuel economy for the large S.U.V.'s that will begin arriving in showrooms early next year. 
 G.M. is even considering ways to start marketing the fact that many of the vehicles can run on an ethanol blend instead of gasoline, a feature that many environmental advocates have criticized because it allows automakers to take advantage of a regulatory loophole. 
 G.M.'s marketing director, Mark R. LaNeve, said that talking about fuel economy was ''going to be an integral piece of everything we do'' in the S.U.V. campaign. 
 Mr. LaNeve spoke at a news conference on Tuesday where the company unveiled its remodeled large S.U.V.'s -- including 2007 models of the Chevrolet Tahoe, GMC Yukon, Chevrolet Avalanche and a Cadillac Escalade bristling with chrome. On the inside, the vehicles have a more German feel, because domestic automakers see Audi in particular as a benchmark for interior refinement. 
 On the outside, they have more chrome and less gray plastic armor. They are also more aerodynamic, with less boxy windshields and tighter surface gaps. And they have appendages added to the front of their stiff steel frames to mitigate damage when they collide with smaller vehicles, like cars. 
 Holding ground in the large S.U.V. market is critical for G.M., and the overhaul of the vehicles, the first in seven years for many of them, has been a priority. The company commands about half of the large S.U.V. market, but in the last couple of years the total market has shrunk to 700,000 vehicles a year from about 900,000. Profit margins have also declined as steeper discounts have been required.
 ''That's the big issue: whither goes the full-size S.U.V.,'' said Joseph Phillippi, a consultant and analyst. He attended the news conference and was impressed with the new products, but cautioned, ''You wouldn't call it a growth market.''
 Mr. LaNeve said G.M. would promote its large S.U.V.'s as the most fuel-efficient, powerful and stylish of the class.
 Some models of the Tahoe will be the first large S.U.V.'s to be rated at just over 20 miles per gallon in combined city and highway driving under the government's testing procedures. While the government's fuel economy test significantly overstates the mileage people can get on the road, the Tahoe would be rated slightly higher than the current model, and exceed competitors like the Toyota Sequoia and Nissan Armada. 
 Mr. LaNeve said he met with other G.M. marketing executives on Monday to discuss ways to begin promoting ethanol.
 G.M. already has 1.3 million so-called flex-fuel vehicles on the road that can use E85, an ethanol blend, but there are fewer than 500 gas stations nationwide that carry it. Automakers build flex-fuel vehicles because they get regulatory credits that allow them to make more vehicles with low fuel economy. Many customers are not aware their vehicles have the capability. 
 ''If you're really into saving fuel, and oil dependency, you can get an ethanol-based vehicle,'' Mr. LaNeve said. ''If you drive 15,000 miles in an ethanol-based vehicle here, you're burning under 200 gallons of oil-based gas a year. That's less than a hybrid.''
 If G.M. now sees flex-fuel vehicles as a marketing opportunity, ethanol is a contentious topic. While E85 has been 40 to 50 cents a gallon cheaper than regular gasoline in recent weeks, one does not go as far on a gallon of E85 as on a gallon of gasoline, lessening the cost advantage. And E85 is also supported by subsidies for corn growers, while gasoline is taxed. 
 But Mr. LaNeve said ethanol was one feature the company would start talking about. Advertisements, he said, would stress technologies like cylinder deactivation, which shuts down engine cylinders when they are not needed. Hybrid electric technology will appear as an option in 2007. Commercials for Chevrolet, he said, will make comparisons with the fuel economy of competing products. 
 At the same time, executives at G.M., which has lost $1.4 billion in the first half of the year, were stressing that they were no longer putting all their eggs in one basket. The company has been feverishly playing catch-up with Asian rivals by developing more lightweight S.U.V.'s, and is also trying to develop more credible passenger cars. 
 ''We have a lot of options in terms of fuel efficiency,'' Mr. LaNeve said. ''We believe most of our full-size owners will come in and take a look and will continue to buy the segment. I like to say, hey look, if you got three kids you can't give one back. Depending on your lifestyle, you're going to keep buying this kind of vehicle.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert A. Lutz, General Motors vice chairman, with a Chevrolet Tahoe, one of the redesigned sport utility vehicles G.M. introduced yesterday. (Photo by Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); ALCOHOLS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ETHANOL (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%) Automobiles; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Fuel Efficiency; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Advertising and Marketing; Ethanol; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



491 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Premier Rejected in Ukraine; Political Stalemate Hardens

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Ukraine plunged deeper into political turmoil on Tuesday when Parliament rejected President Viktor A. Yushchenko's choice to be prime minister, and the top prosecutor announced that investigators had opened criminal inquiry into allegations of corruption among the president's aides.
 Twelve days after dismissing Prime Minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko amid internal divisions and competing accusations, Mr. Yushchenko failed to muster enough votes to win approval of her replacement, Yuri I. Yekhanurov. The defeat, though narrow, dealt a new blow to Mr. Yushchenko only months after he swept to power on a wave of public protests against electoral fraud. 
 Mr. Yushchenko nominated Mr. Yekhanurov, a regional governor and former aide, in an effort to contain a scandal over corruption that has threatened his popular image as an untainted reformer determined to break with the darkest aspects of Ukraine's post-Soviet history.
 That effort, however, appeared to founder further as the prosecutor general, Svyatoslav M. Piskun, gave credence to corruption charges by announcing that at least five investigations of official misconduct had begun after accusations made by Mr. Yushchenko's former chief of staff.
 Although he cleared some Yushchenko advisers of suspicion, Mr. Piskun said the investigations included questions about judicial interference by Mr. Yushchenko's National Security and Defense Council and about the business activities of the council's former chairman, Petro O. Poroshenko. The interference involved a legal challenge to an investment in a chemical factory called Severodonetsk Azot by the IBE Trade Corporation, a subsidiary of an American company. 
 Mr. Poroshenko, one of Mr. Yushchenko's closest allies, said in a telephone interview that the accusations were unsubstantiated and politically motivated. He said he had met investigators on Monday and was shown no evidence incriminating him. ''This case has absolutely zero prospect in court,'' he said, accusing Mr. Piskun and his deputies of bias.
 Mr. Poroshenko and Ms. Tymoshenko were among Mr. Yushchenko's most influential and powerful supporters during the uprising last year against a fraudulent election for president orchestrated by the former president, Leonid D. Kuchma. Now, only eight months after Mr. Yushchenko took the oath as Ukraine's third president, his coalition has imploded under the weight of political and personal disputes that have harmed the economy and slowed the reforms that he had promised to thousands who massed on Independence Square in Kiev.
 Before the vote on Tuesday, Mr. Yushchenko pleaded for support, saying the stability of Ukraine was at stake. ''I am urging you to put aside intrigues and wars,'' he said in televised remarks at the Parliament, or Supreme Rada, as translated by the BBC. ''Let us not tear the country apart.''
 He added that he faced ''a cynical plan of ruining this administration,'' making a thinly veiled reference to Ms. Tymoshenko and other political opponents. 
 The tensions surrounding Mr. Yushchenko's erstwhile partners simmered for months but emerged with astonishing bitterness after his chief of staff, Oleksandr O. Zinchenko, resigned Sept. 2 and accused the president of failing to halt corruption around him. Mr. Yushchenko and his aides tried to shift the focus to Ms. Tymoshenko, whose short term as prime minister proved divisive politically and disruptive economically. 
 But the vote underscored the political costs of breaking with Ms. Tymoshenko, who was second only to Mr. Yushchenko in public prominence during protests last fall. Her party joined others from across the political spectrum to reject Mr. Yekhanurov's nomination. 
 ''It is a sign of the weakness of the president,'' one of Ms. Tymoshenko's advisers, Hryhory M. Nemyrya, said in a telephone interview.
 Mr. Yushchenko failed to rally political support around a new, centrist government. Among those he reached out to was Viktor F. Yanukovich, the former prime minister under President Kuchma whose initial ''victory'' in the election for president last November Mr. Yushchenko succeeded in overturning. 
 Mr. Yekhanurov, who is expected to remain as acting prime minister until a new vote or a new nominee, was seen as a capable leader and an uncontroversial choice. But Mr. Yushchenko's meeting with Mr. Yanukovich deepened a sense of betrayal among Ms. Tymoshenko and other critics of Mr. Kuchma's presidency.
 So did an encounter between Mr. Yekhanurov and Mr. Kuchma eight days ago. The two men appeared at a public ceremony in Dnipropetrovsk, where Mr. Yekhanurov served as governor, and kissed each other in a traditional greeting, provoking days of political speculation and ridicule.
 ''It was the kiss of the past,'' Mr. Nemyrya said.
 Although Mr. Yushchenko and many others in his government once served under Mr. Kuchma, the former president remains a deeply unpopular figure whose tenure was marred by corruption and criminality. The past resurfaced Tuesday, even as Mr. Yushchenko's political crisis reached a peak. 
 A parliamentary commission investigating the kidnapping and murder of the journalist Georgy Gongadze in 2000, one of the most notorious crimes of Mr. Kuchma's presidency, issued its long-delayed report and implicated not only Mr. Kuchma, but also the speaker of Parliament, Volodymyr M. Lytvyn, who was once Mr. Kuchma's chief of staff, identifying them as organizers of the kidnapping. Both have previously denied involvement.
 Parliament referred the commission's report to Mr. Piskun's office for investigation and prosecution.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about a government crisis in Ukraine referred incorrectly to an American company involved in a disputed investment in a Ukrainian chemical factory, which is at the center of an investigation into government corruption. The company, the IBE Trade Corporation, is the parent, not a subsidiary. The subsidiary, Worldwide Chemical, now operates the factory under a joint operating agreement with the government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); ELECTION FRAUD (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); ETHICS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCANDALS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%) Politics and Government; Ethics

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (92%); YULIA TYMOSHENKO (78%) Steven Lee Myers; Viktor A (Pres) Yushchenko; Yuri I Yekhanurov

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UKRAINE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



492 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Leaving Campus by Car, and the College Even Helps

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
A full day of classes just wasn't appealing to David Goldstein, a student at George Washington University, so he invited a friend on a road trip to the Shenandoah Valley. 
 The fact that neither owned a car didn't matter -- they simply booked one online and headed to campus, where the very school they were ditching provided them with a ride to the mountains.
When Mr. Goldstein needs a car, he reserves one through Zipcar, a five-year-old car-sharing agency that allows users to reserve cars by the hour or day and that has been courting students, faculty members and staff at colleges since 2003. 
 ''Having a car changes your life completely. It's freedom,'' said Mr. Goldstein, 22, who relied on public transportation before Zipcar. ''I can just get into the car and do whatever I want to do.''
 The company estimates that about 20 percent of its users come from its college program. Twenty East Coast schools, including Tufts, Howard, Rutgers and American University, have Zipcars on campus. 
 ''Students, faculty and staff want to have access to transportation, and the schools have problems providing parking,'' said Scott Griffith, chief executive of Zipcar. ''There's a tension between 'I want a car' and schools being unable to provide parking. We stepped in with a nice solution.''
 Schools sign up for the program free, but must provide parking spots, basic maintenance like oil changes, and cleaning. Zipcar provides the cars, basic insurance and marketing, Mr. Griffith said. 
 People affiliated with a university partner do not have to pay the standard $175 in fees, instead paying a $25 annual fee. Cars cost $8.50 an hour or $60 a day. People who joined through colleges will get the discount at all Zipcar locations.
 Mark Horowitz, a graduate student at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said he considered buying a used car when he arrived on campus last year, but realized that Zipcar would be cheaper and parking would be easier. He uses the car to drive to discount stores and supermarkets, which are cheaper than food shopping options near campus. He returns the car to its reserved Zipcar space.
 ''I'm living on a grad student stipend. I can barely afford to live as it is,'' Mr. Horowitz, 30, said of his decision to forgo a car. ''Things are a bit more expensive here. And now I can go to Target and buy everything I need. I do save money that way. I don't know how much, but it must pay for the car.''
 Renters must be over 21, although schools can buy additional insurance through a third party to insure drivers ages 18 to 20. All renters must have a valid driver's license that is at least a year old and consent to a driving record check. If any egregious violations are found, the driver cannot rent. 
 But the best part lately, users said, is that Zipcar pays for gas. And the universities shovel out the cars during snowstorms, which increased rentals at Tufts University last winter. 
 Zipcar, whose headquarters are in Cambridge, Mass., said about 70 of its 700 cars are on the 20 campuses. The service mainly offers small cars including Honda Civics and Volkswagen Jettas, but for $1 more an hour users can rent a four-wheel-drive vehicle. About 15 percent of the fleet consists of hybrid or electric cars. 
 University officials said the program is a way to offer students alternative means of transportation at little charge to the school while conserving parking spots. 
 ''As parking availability lessens here on campus, we have to make sure there are transportation options available, and this is one of the options,'' said Randy Young, a spokesman at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, which is losing spots because of construction. ''This is seen as an economical and ecologically sound alternative operation.''
 The program started at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 2003, said Larry Bruti, the university's director of parking services. About 1,600 students and faculty and staff members are now registered users, he said. M.I.T. has seven cars, with hundreds available in the area. 
 The service makes sense, he said, as M.I.T. has 4,814 parking spots for students, faculty members and staff. They're not cheap, either -- students pay $592 for a space, while employees pay $575. 
 Elizabeth Cooney, a graduate student at M.I.T., signed up for Zipcar last year. The service is invaluable to Ms. Cooney and her husband, who is also in graduate school, because it is inexpensive and convenient -- there is a pickup and drop-off location next to their apartment building, where car owners have to pay $175 for a spot, she said.
 ''For us, it's the price factor,'' she said. ''It's much cheaper and more convenient, and you don't have to worry about where it's parked all the time. If we didn't have Zipcar it would be impossible to go to Target, or the mall, or drop packages at UPS.'' 
 Use of the cars, however, is as varied as students. 
 Mr. Goldstein, a fifth-year student at George Washington University, first used a Zipcar last summer to drive to a diner in Arlington, Va., with some friends at 3 a.m., to eat a bacon, egg and cheese sandwich with French fries. He often rented the cars in the middle of the night when he worked as a restaurant manger this summer, and once drove to Virginia to go grocery shopping. 
 ''I have a weird schedule and I rented a Zipcar at 3:30 a.m.,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''I got my grocery shopping done. It was a nice trip. That way you're not fighting with some old lady in a muumuu over a cantaloupe.''
 Mr. Goldstein rented a car nearly every Sunday night to drive to the Cheesecake Factory, where he and his friends would buy cheesecake to eat while watching the HBO show ''Entourage.'' 
 ''I can't afford a car, but I can afford a Zipcar,'' Mr. Goldstein said. 
 Students and university officials say access is often the biggest problem, as not all the cars are always available. But officials at Zipcar said they had avoided what might seem to be the biggest concern with college students -- drunken driving. 
 Mr. Griffith said there had been no reports of students' driving drunk in a Zipcar, and there have been no reported accidents thus far. Were there reports or, upon returning the car, evidence that something happened, the person's membership would be canceled, he said. 
 ''This is sort of a self-policing system,'' Mr. Griffith said. ''People rely on Zipcars and want to use them, and there's some natural forces at work that keeps people handling them appropriately. And we certainly monitor and watch the populations to make sure there's not anything inappropriate going on.'' 
 Students like the approach.
 ''I would never want to get a D.U.I. in a Zipcar,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''They'd revoke my membership. Never mind what happened to me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Adele Miles of El Centro, Calif., gets in a Zipcar on the campus of Wellesley College as Ashira Greene of Fairfax, Va., a classmate, watches. Wellesley is one of 20 East Coast colleges that offer Zipcars for rent.
 A recharging station for electric Zipcars at Tufts University, a Zipcar sponsor. Zipcars have reserved parking spaces on campuses. (Photographs by Michael Dwyer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARPOOL & CARSHARE SERVICES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); DRIVERS LICENSES (60%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ZIPCAR INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: ZIP (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



493 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Fed Acknowledges Hurricane's Effect But Continues to Raise Benchmark Rate
Saying that Hurricane Katrina was unlikely to pose a ''persistent threat'' to the economy, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the 11th consecutive time and signaled that more rate increases are on the way. Historically, the central bank has taken a dim view of changing policy in response to a natural disaster, even a big one. [Page C1.]

Stocks fell after the Federal Reserve raised its benchmark rate. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 9.68 points, to 1,221.34. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 76.11 points, at 10,481.52. The Nasdaq composite index fell 13.93 points, to 2,131.33. [C10.]

Mississippi Homeowners Prepare to Challenge Insurers
Richard Scruggs, a Mississippi lawyer whose home was ruined by Hurricane Katrina, is leading an effort to challenge insurance companies that are refusing to pay for a huge portion of the losses from the storm. The insurers say homeowners' policies cover wind and rain damage from hurricanes, but do not cover flooding caused by hurricanes or anything else. [C1.]

As the first major manufacturing site to reopen in New Orleans, Procter & Gamble's Folgers factory represents a symbolic victory. But the rush to resume production was also driven by a hard-nosed business calculation. [C6.]

Microsoft Makes Management Changes
Microsoft reshuffled its management team in an effort to make itself more nimble as it tries to lift its growth and compete with fast-moving rivals like Google. Under the plan, seven business units will be collapsed into three divisions, each led by an executive who will carry the title president. As part of the reorganization, James Allchin, above, the executive overseeing Windows, said he would retire after Windows Vista ships. [C1.]

Battle Lines Form Over Warnings on Foods
A fight over whether to put health warnings on foods like potato chips and French fries could have a big impact on the eating habits of Americans and on the bottom lines of restaurants and food companies. [C1.]

Kate Moss Dismissed From Ad Campaign Over Drug Use
In a move with little precedent in the fashion industry, the model Kate Moss was dismissed from a planned advertising campaign after she admitted to executives she had recently used cocaine. [C1.]

Intel Says New Chips Will Save Battery Power
Intel announced a new manufacturing process for making chips for cellphones and other mobile devices that use far less power than is currently possible, thus helping extend battery life. [C6.]
 Authors Sue Google, Claiming Copyright Infringement

Three authors have filed suit against Google Inc. yesterday claiming that the company's program to create searchable, digital copies of the contents of several university libraries constitutes copyright infringement. [C3.]

New York Times Co. and Knight Ridder Plan Job Cuts
The New York Times Company announced that it would cut its work force by 500 employees, including 45 in The Times's newsroom and 35 in the newsroom of The Boston Globe. The announcement came shortly after Knight Ridder said it was cutting 100 editorial employees in Philadelphia. [C5.]

Initial Pact for DaimlerChrysler Workers in Canada
The Canadian Auto Workers reached a tentative agreement with DaimlerChrysler Canada that eliminates about 1,600 jobs and offers limited wage and benefit gains. [C3.]

G.M. to Promote Gas Mileage of S.U.V.'s
General Motors plans to market its next generation of large sport utility vehicles by promoting their gas mileage. [C3.]

Advertisers Use Online Games as an Enticement
A new Web site from the Internet travel agent Orbitz com revives games that proved popular since they began appearing inside Orbitz ads in 2001. The comeback is indicative of a trend known as advergaming, in which marketers offer games online that double as ads. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C5.]

Quarterly Profit Rises 84% at Goldman Sachs
The Goldman Sachs Group reported an 84 percent gain in third quarter earnings yesterday, driven by significant gains in stock and bond trading as well a surge in revenue for services offered to hedge funds. The firm earned a record $1.6 billion, or $3.25 a share, compared with $879 million, or $1.74 a share, in the quarter a year ago. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected Goldman to earn $2.38 a share. Revenue soared 61 percent, to $7.3 billion. [C3.]

Muslim Beliefs and Real Estate Investing
More Middle Easterners, flush with cash from rising oil prices, are investing in real estate. Some experts say there is a growing appetite for deals that conform to the rules of the Koran. Adhering to Shariah, or Islamic law, can determine how a project is financed. Square Feet. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing prices of Goldman Sachs shares since July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); HURRICANES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); MARKETING PLAN (69%); LITIGATION (68%); FLOODS & FLOODING (67%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (63%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (62%); WRITERS (62%); COPYRIGHT (62%); COPYRIGHT LAW (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); RESTAURANTS (61%); COCAINE (60%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (50%); LIBRARIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (81%); INTEL CORP (80%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); NYT (NYSE) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (80%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: KATE MOSS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



494 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Governors Ask for Inquiry on Oil Prices 

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The governors of eight states sent a letter on Tuesday to President Bush and Congress calling for an investigation into profits made by oil companies after Hurricane Katrina and asking for legislation that would require the companies to refund to customers any profits deemed excess.
 ''When the wholesale price of gas went up by 60 cents almost overnight, oil companies were obviously using the most devastating natural disaster in our nation's history to reap a windfall at the expense of American consumers,'' said the letter, which was initiated by Gov. 
James E. Doyle of Wisconsin and was signed by governors from Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, Montana, New Mexico, Oregon and Washington.
''To price-gouge consumers under normal circumstances is dishonest enough,'' the letter stated, ''but to make money off the severe misfortune of others is downright immoral.''
 The letter cited an analysis by Donald A. Nichols, an economics professor at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, who reported that gas prices surged disproportionately compared with crude oil price increases. The price markup from crude oil to gasoline has almost tripled since the hurricane, the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); HISTORY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JIM DOYLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



495 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Opponents Share Hour of Unkind Words

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
Displaying the kind of zest that has often been missing on the campaign trail, Douglas R. Forrester and Senator Jon S. Corzine attacked each other over property taxes, ethics and their records on Tuesday night in the first debate between the two men who want to be New Jersey's next governor.
 Mr. Forrester, the Republican candidate, sought repeatedly to link Mr. Corzine with what he described as the dubious power of Democratic state leaders and reckless spending habits of entrenched legislators in Trenton. And he may have delivered the most memorable line of the night when he dismissed claims by Mr. Corzine that he had supported tax reductions more than 70 times since being elected to the United States Senate in 2000. 
''If Mr. Corzine is trying to characterize himself a tax cutter, Golan Cipel is a homeland security expert,'' Mr. Forrester said, referring to the man who was involved in a relationship with former Gov. James E. McGreevey, according to Mr. McGreevey's aides at the time, and was appointed to that position despite a thin resume.
 But far from maintaining the kind of political sang-froid that might come from someone with a big lead in the polls, Mr. Corzine, the Democratic nominee, did not shy away from firing back. He suggested that Mr. Forrester had waffled on a number of issues, like a possible gasoline tax to help replenish the state's Transportation Trust Fund, and even on his record, two decades ago, while mayor of West Windsor.
 And he called Mr. Forrester's signature campaign issue -- a 30 percent cut in property taxes in three years -- ''delusional,'' noting that even some ''conservative columnists'' had called the plan a ''sham.''
 ''It's going to blow a $9 billion hole in the budget,'' Mr. Corzine said.
 The one-hour debate provided a tighter and more intimate compendium of the kind of harsh rhetoric that has characterized the race since the beginning of the summer. But instead of dwelling mostly on the questions of personal ethics that have dominated the race so far, most of the discussion on Tuesday concerned policy issues on subjects from pensions to stem cell research to gay marriage.
 Not that there was no mention, direct or oblique, of some of those personal issues during the debate, which was broadcast live from the Trenton studios of New Jersey Network.
 The first question of the debate was about a $470,000 mortgage loan turned gift that Mr. Corzine made to a woman who is the head of a major state employees' union. When asked whether that transaction would have any bearing on negotiations between the state and the union, Mr. Corzine said what he has said for weeks, that he represented all 8.5 million people in New Jersey, and that he had demonstrated independence, both during his tenure as a co-chairman at Goldman Sachs and in the Senate.
 The next question focused on the other dominant issue in this campaign: the legality of contributions that Mr. Forrester and his pharmacy-benefits company, BeneCard Services, made to Republican candidates in the state. And as he has done for weeks now, Mr. Forrester defended the contributions and said he was proud of his company.
 ''Enough of that nonsense,'' he said.
 Later, on the issue of taxes, Mr. Forrester tried repeatedly to goad Mr. Corzine into making a no-new-taxes pledge. 
 But Mr. Corzine called that pledge ''grandstanding in the political arena'' and suggested that it was foolish when circumstances -- like a natural disaster or a terrorist attack -- might demand otherwise.
 Mr. Corzine also took every opportunity to blast Mr. Forrester's property tax plan, invoking his tenure as mayor of West Windsor.
 ''Mr. Forrester's 30-in-3 program is more like a 100-200 program -- a 100 percent increase in spending, and 200 percent increase in property taxes,'' he said. ''It's what he did when he was mayor of West Windsor.''
 For his part, Mr. Forrester dismissed Mr. Corzine's plan to offer a 40 percent increase in property tax rebates over four years with one word: ''lame.''
 On the issue of political connections, Mr. Forrester tried to hammer at Mr. Corzine for supporting Democratic brokers like George E. Norcross III of Camden County. Mr. Corzine, in turn, sought to link Mr. Forrester with President Bush and the national Republican Party, noting that Vice President Dick Cheney and Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's top political adviser, had visited New Jersey in recent months.
 The two candidates also clashed over stem cell research. Mr. Corzine said that he supported embryonic stem cell research, and Mr. Forrester said he supported adult stem cell research -- a position that puts him in step with conservative Republicans who oppose abortion rights.
 But at one point, Mr. Forrester tried to separate himself from the national party. ''I'm a Tom Kean Republican,'' he said, referring to the moderate former governor, who remains enormously popular. ''I believe in the politics of inclusion.''
 While neither man is likely to win any oratorical awards any time soon, Mr. Forrester demonstrated a bit more of a personal touch on Tuesday, weaving anecdotes about voters who have talked to him about bear hunts, education and property taxes.
 For all of the attempts by both men to highlight their differences, points of agreement emerged, too. Neither supports a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage. Both said they were encouraged by economic development in Atlantic City.
 One issue that neither candidate talked much about, though, was money, or rather, his own money. After all, the two candidates, who have each declared $12 million in annual income in recent tax filings, are not accepting any public money for their campaigns, and have said from the outset that their deep pockets leave them free to talk about substantive issues.
 They will have that opportunity in one more traditional televised debate before the election on Nov. 8, as well as half a dozen or so other forums attended by both men on the radio, before editorial boards or in front of various civic groups.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas R. Forrester, front, and Jon S. Corzine before the start of their televised debate last night in Trenton. (Photo by Jose F. Moreno/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ETHICS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); FUEL TAX (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (71%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); WRITERS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



496 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says North Korean Demand for Reactor Won't Derail Accord

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20 

 BODY:
The Bush administration on Tuesday brushed off a demand from North Korea for a light-water nuclear reactor, saying that the accord announced Monday in Beijing left it clear that the North must abandon its nuclear weapons program before such a matter can be discussed.
 ''I think we will not get hung up on this statement,'' said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, referring to a comment from North Korea that it would continue to insist on getting a reactor up front, as a price for agreeing to the Beijing deal. ''We will stick to the text of the Beijing statement, and I believe we can make progress if everybody sticks to what was actually agreed to,'' Ms. Rice added at a news briefing with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. Mr. Lavrov said that ''we shouldn't rely on oral statements'' from North Korea or others. 
The Beijing agreement laid out a set of principles to guide discussions, which are scheduled to resume in November. The United States hailed the part of the accord in which North Korea agreed to abandon ''all nuclear weapons and existing nuclear programs'' and submit to international inspections.
 In return, the United States agreed to join its four partners -- Russia, Japan, South Korea and China -- in providing security guarantees and economic incentives over time, according to the principle of ''commitment for commitment, action for action.'' 
 Despite the efforts of American and other top officials to be positive about the Beijing agreement, the exchange about the nuclear reactor appeared to show that a wide gap remained between North Korea and, on the other side, the United States and its partners, on the very question that had stymied the talks for weeks.
 In recent talks, North Korea had demanded, for its energy needs, a light-water reactor, of the sort promised in 1994 in return for an earlier agreement to freeze its nuclear programs. In 2002 the United States discovered that the North had reneged on that deal, and the Bush administration refused to supply such a reactor in any future arrangement.
 The stalemate was resolved at the last minute over the weekend by China, which called on the United States to agree to discuss providing the North with a light-water reactor ''at an appropriate time.'' Such a reactor is less efficient in producing weapons-grade fuel than a regular reactor.
 Christopher R. Hill, the chief negotiator in the talks, said Tuesday that he was not surprised by North Korea's continued insistence on getting the reactor up front, but that the North understood that the American timetable for discussing the reactor was shared by the other countries in the talks.
 ''The North Koreans will make odd statements at their leisure, but they know precisely what the deal is,'' Mr. Hill said in an interview. ''The deal with five other countries is that they have to get out of the nuclear business, and at an appropriate time to have discussions on a light-water reactor.''
 Mr. Hill said that he was untroubled by North Korea's statement and that work would begin soon on the next phase, which is a proposal for a way to verify that it is abandoning its nuclear ambitions.
 But some experts who examined the Beijing accord said Tuesday that the problem of the light-water reactor would come back to haunt the negotiators.
 ''I never believed that the administration would ever, as a matter of principle, provide a light-water reactor,'' said Charles L. Pritchard, who negotiated with North Korea in President Bush's first term. ''In this agreement, we've kept the door open in a false matter.''
 Mr. Pritchard said he now feared that the North Koreans might not come back to the negotiating table in November without assurances on the reactor. 
 But Mr. Hill said he fully expected North Korea to return to the talks and discuss how to implement the latest accord. That was also the view of the South Koreans and the Japanese.
 ''The light-water reactor was the major sticking point, and it remains the one sticking point still,'' said an Asian diplomat, asking that his country not be identified because of its rules barring discussions of negotiations. ''These differences of opinion are somewhat worrisome.''
 He said he expected that North Korea would not agree immediately to resume talks in November, but that eventually China would persuade them to return.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); INSPECTIONS (76%) United States International Relations; Atomic Energy; Atomic Weapons

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%) North Korea; China

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



497 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

False Convictions Plague China's Legal System
Recent disclosures of wrongful convictions in China have exposed deep flaws in its judicial system, a system that often answers more to political leaders than to the law and uses torture to get confessions. A1

Iran Issues Warning to U.N
Iran's chief nuclear negotiator said that the country would resume enriching uranium and restrict United Nations inspectors from information if the United States and its allies refer Iran to the Security Council. A12

9 Americans Killed in Iraq
In one of the most lethal stretches for Americans in Iraq in recent months, nine soldiers and security officers were killed in four attacks across the country in the past two days. A8

Fissure on North Korea Deal
The Bush administration rejected a demand from North Korea for a light-water nuclear reactor, saying that the accord reached Monday left it clear that the North must abandon its nuclear arms program before such a matter can be discussed. A12

Karzai Urges U.S. to Shift Focus
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan questioned the need for major military operations in Afghanistan, saying that airstrikes were no longer effective and that the United States-led coalition should focus more on shutting off the flow of militants across the country's border. A12

Rice Fosters Palestinian Vote
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urged Israel to allow Palestinians to carry out their legislative elections in January without Israeli interference, implicitly criticizing Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister. A10

Political Stalemate in Ukraine
The Ukranian Parliament rejected President Viktor A. Yushchenko's choice to be prime minister, and the top prosecutor announced that investigators had opened criminal investigations into allegations of corruption among the president's aides. A3

NATIONAL A15-23

Hurricane Rita Forces New Gulf Evacuations
Hurricane Rita brushed past Key West and was expected to strengthen into a major hurricane later in the week. The storm was prompting residents and rescuers to begin evacuating battered New Orleans, as well as other parts of Louisiana and Texas. A1

Congressional Democrats said the arrest of a former senior White House budget official involved in organizing the federal response to Hurricane Katrina demonstrated the need for an independent investigation of the government's reaction to the disaster. A15

Conservative House Republicans plan to recommend more than $500 billion in savings over 10 years to compensate for the costs of Hurricane Katrina as lawmakers continue to struggle to develop a fiscal approach to the disaster. A20

Flood Wall Flaws Cited
Concrete flood walls installed over the last several decades along the canals cutting into New Orleans, which collapsed in places during Hurricane Katrina, were built in a way that by the Army Corps of Engineers' own standards left them potentially unstable in a flood, according to government documents and interviews. A1

Democrat Will Oppose Roberts
The Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said he would vote against the confirmation of Judge John G. Roberts Jr., surprising both the White House and his fellow Democrats, many of whom are still deeply conflicted over Judge Roberts's nomination to be the nation's 17th chief justice. A1

U.S. Fights Suit Against Pope
The federal Justice Department has told a Texas court that a lawsuit accusing Pope Benedict XVI of conspiring to cover up the sexual molestation of three boys by a seminarian should be dismissed because the pontiff enjoys immunity as head of state of the Holy See. A22

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

Facing Democratic Unity, Bloomberg Shifts Focus
Fernando Ferrer, the Democratic nominee for mayor of New York, has tried to link President Bush's current political troubles to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, and Mr. Bloomberg has been drawn away from his tight focus on city issues and into divisive national debates over Hurricane Katrina and abortion rights, much to the delight of New York Democrats. A1

Gotti Avoids Conviction
In a startling setback to federal prosecutors, John A. Gotti, the Gambino crime family prince, avoided conviction in his racketeering trial, as the jury failed to reach verdicts on three charges against him and voted not guilty on a fourth. B1

EDUCATION B10

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

ARTS E1-10

New Director for Guggenheim
A 27-year veteran of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation is being promoted to director of its New York museum. The appointment of Lisa Dennison, now deputy director and chief curator, was set for approval by the Guggenheim's board. E1

DINING OUT F1-12

OBITUARIES C17-18

Simon Wiesenthal
The death camp survivor who after being liberated by American forces abandoned his profession as an architectural engineer and dedicated the rest of his life to tracking down fugitive Nazi war criminals, he was 96. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-17

Fed Raises Rates Again
Saying that Hurricane Katrina was unlikely to pose a ''persistent threat'' to the economy, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the 11th time in a row. C1

Retailer Cancels Moss Ads
Kate Moss, one of the world's most recognizable models, was dismissed from a planned advertising campaign by H&M after she admitted to executives she had recently used cocaine. C1

Changes at Microsoft
Microsoft reshuffled its management team in an effort to make the big software maker more nimble as it tries to lift its growth and compete with fast-moving rivals like Google. C1

Battle Over Flood Insurance
Richard Scruggs, a wealthy plaintiffs' lawyer who played a leading role in wrenching a $250 billion settlement from the tobacco industry, is gearing up to fight insurance companies that are refusing to pay for losses resulting from flooding caused by Hurricane Katrina. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Sleight of budgeting; Germany and the battle for reform; comparing schizophrenia drugs; Verlyn Klinkenborg on Katrina, the Mississippi River and the risks of the coming harvest.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E6
Weather D8
TV Listings E10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (88%); HURRICANES (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ARMIES (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); BUDGETS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (68%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); CORRUPTION (63%); TROPICAL STORMS (62%); ENGINEERING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); HAMAD KARZAI (65%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UKRAINE (92%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



498 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Urban Miss

BYLINE: By Joel Kotkin. 
Joel Kotkin, a fellow at the New America Foundation, is the author of ''The City: A Global History.''

 BODY:
THE votes are all in, and Fernando Ferrer has won New York's Democratic mayoral nomination, narrowly avoiding a runoff (even a nominal one) with Representative Anthony Weiner. That sounds like great news for the Democrats, who can now focus on trying to defeat Mayor Michael Bloomberg. But in truth it's the opposite: what New York's Democrats need isn't hand-holding -- it's bloodletting. 
 Without a challenge from Mr. Weiner, Mr. Ferrer won't have the chance to prove he's not an unreconstructed liberal from the time before Rudolph Giuliani ruled the city. While Mr. Weiner evoked the centrist politics of Ed Koch, promising to cut taxes and streamline bureaucracy, Mr. Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, is running on ethnic appeals and tax and spending increases.
Mr. Ferrer's message was one that wins primaries and loses general elections. Indeed, chances are that New York, the city that still sets the tone for urban governance, will once again elect a Republican. Sadly, this is not a problem just for New York's Democrats. The failures of urban liberalism weaken the entire party as it gets ready to take on the increasingly vulnerable Republicans.
 Democrats have long drawn their moral, economic and electoral strength from the cities. Yet this urban dominance has its negative side. Despite all the self-congratulatory hoopla about an urban renaissance, prevailing demographic and economic trends show a persistent shift from cities toward the ever-expanding suburbs and exurbs. 
 In virtually every metropolitan region, including New York, the periphery is growing faster than the core. Since 2000 even some cities that had been gaining population -- Boston, Chicago, Minneapolis and San Francisco, for example -- have lost people.
 And the political result? While cities go overwhelmingly Democratic, the party loses national and state elections. In 1952, for example, New York City accounted for almost half of the voters of New York State; today it accounts for less than a third. 
 It doesn't help that most liberal cities now aspire to become ''cool cities'' -- playgrounds for the ultrarich, nomadic singles and childless couples. By focusing on Wi-Fi zones and loft conversions while schools crumble, liberal cities are essentially ignoring middle- and working-class strivers, particularly those with children. 
 And despite their indulgence in often demagogic rhetoric about class and race, Democrats preside over the most unequal parts of America. The widest gaps between rich and poor are to be found in liberal bastions like Atlanta, Boston, Miami, New York and Washington.
 Worse yet, few Democrats are tackling these issues or their root causes with any success. Some of today's ''coolest'' Democratic mayors -- Baltimore's Martin O'Malley, Philadelphia's John Street, Detroit's Kwame Kilpatrick -- have failed to reform bloated bureaucracies and dysfunctional schools, and they haven't made much progress in improving aging ports, roads and sanitation systems. 
 The flooding in New Orleans has exposed this record of liberal neglect in the starkest terms. New Orleans has had Democratic mayors for decades. While they've created a first-class tourist attraction, they've also produced a city with third-world inequality.
 What if the Democrats who control cities made them work for the middle class? By once again making the cities laboratories for progressive reform, centrists like Mr. Weiner could go a long way toward building a Democratic majority. But that means they'll have to stand and fight. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); TAX LAW (69%); TRENDS (68%) Election Issues ; Primaries

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Fernando Ferrer; Anthony D (Rep) Weiner; Joel Kotkin; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



499 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

New Warning From Iran Over the Nuclear Issue
Iran's chief nuclear negotiator warned that the country would resume enriching uranium and restrict United Nations inspectors from critical information if the United States and its allies referred Iran to the Security Council over its nuclear program. PAGE A12

9 Americans Killed in Iraq
In one of the most lethal stretches for Americans in Iraq in recent months, nine soldiers and security officers were killed in four attacks in the last two days. PAGE A8

Retailer Drops Kate Moss Ads
Kate Moss was dismissed from a planned advertising campaign by the clothing retailer H&M after store executives said she admitted to having recently used cocaine. Strong criticism from customers led the company to reverse an earlier statement in which it said it would keep her. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Fed Increases Rates Again
Saying that Hurricane Katrina was unlikely to pose a persistent economic threat, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the 11th time in a row. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Gotti Escapes Conviction
The jury hearing a racketeering case against John A. Gotti, the Gambino crime family prince, returned hung verdicts on three charges and acquitted him on a fourth. PAGE B1


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); JURY TRIALS (70%); VERDICTS (70%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); MARKETING PLAN (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ACQUITTAL (65%); COCAINE (53%); HURRICANE KATRINA (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: H&M HENNES & MAURITZ AB (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%)

TICKER: HM.B (STO) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (83%)

PERSON: KATE MOSS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005



500 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; CLOSE TO HOME; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: The New Orleans Shotgun: Down but Not Out

BYLINE: By S. FREDERICK STARR. 
S. Frederick Starr is the author of four books on New Orleans, where he owns a house built in 1826.

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS is becoming a target for what used to be called urban renewal. Talking heads describe the city, beyond the French Quarter and Garden District, as a collection of ''blighted neighborhoods'' where the poor lived in ''wooden shacks'' that should long ago have been demolished, and that now will be. In their place, the argument goes, new homes will rise, better suited to modern life yet embodying the best of what was lost.
 This line of thought recalls the 1960's, when federally sponsored demolition destroyed great swaths of cities like Cincinnati and St. Louis and handed them over to developers. If those old neighborhoods had survived, of course, we would be restoring them today. And as Richard Moe, the president of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, pointed out last week, the building stock of New Orleans is particularly important to that city -- representing its culture ''more than even food.'' 
The seeming trump card in the argument for demolition is that thousands of the wooden structures that give New Orleans its flavor are beyond saving. They were old to begin with, and Katrina's flooding and the ensuing rot and mold will surely finish them off.
 In fact, though, even as some of the city's vernacular buildings may prove beyond repair, most -- including whole neighborhoods now being characterized by politicians and developers as candidates for demolition -- can and should be saved. 
 In the 19th century, local craftsmen devised structural techniques that allowed houses to stand securely on the city's pudding-like alluvial soil, and to survive in the region's notoriously humid climate, with its insects, termites and mold. In place of the heavy, water-absorbing brick-between-post construction that had been used earlier, or the brick masonry common on higher ground in the city, they began using light balloon frames, self-reinforcing structures of two-by-four joists that could be raised above ground on brick or stone piers. For these frames they used local cypress wood, which resists both water and rot, and for secondary woods they favored local cedar, which is nearly as weatherproof as cypress, and dense virgin pine.
 The builders also used circulating air to ward off mold. Ten- to twelve-foot ceilings in even the smallest homes, as well as large windows, channel the slightest breeze throughout the house. And by raising the structures above the ground, builders assured that air would circulate beneath them as well, discouraging termites and rodents. 
 All this means that wooden structures in the New Orleans area are far tougher than they may seem. Thousands have undergone prolonged flooding in the past, yet survived. The owners cleaned them up, replaced secondary wood and wallboard, fixed wiring and replastered, and were back in business. 
 Between 1850 and 1910, whole streets of distinctive New Orleans houses were built in the Irish Channel, Faubourg Marigny, Bywater, Treme and Mid-City neighborhoods. These houses extended back from the street in narrow rows of rooms -- some only 12 feet wide by 100 feet long -- dictated by the long, thin plots laid out by the city's French (and later Spanish) surveyors. They came to be known as shotguns, for the fact that a shotgun blast at the front door could pass unimpeded through all the rooms to the back. A shotgun double consisted of two such houses sharing a common wall, while a camelback was a shotgun with a second floor added at the rear. 
 However small in scale, these buildings are anything but low-key in style. Early on, they had classical facades, often with galleries with columns that eventually evolved into Eastlake and Queen Anne porches. Later, a local industry poured out jigsaw brackets and ornaments that allowed even a New Orleans resident of modest means to indulge what Errol Barron, a New Orleans architect, calls New Orleanians' ''deep-down operatic instincts.''
 These houses proved ideal engines for assimilating diverse people into a common life. French and Anglo-Saxon residents lived in shotguns all over the city, as did well-established Creoles of color; immigrants from Germany, Ireland and Italy; and African-American migrants from the countryside. There was no zoning, and no rigorous segregation. It was a society in which small homeowners of all races had equal stakes. Even today, fully 85 percent of those living in the impoverished Lower Ninth Ward are homeowners, a higher figure than in the Garden District. At a time when American cities have been lost in a tangle of suburbs or given themselves over to high-rises, New Orleans has maintained a distinctive urban life. The density created by those old French surveyors assured that people would interact with one another, as did the front porches and stoops built directly on the sidewalk. Even air-conditioning and TV did not end this situation. Is it any wonder that such neighborhoods have proved so fertile for what might be called the social arts? There are many reasons why New Orleanians have long excelled in cooking, music-making, dancing and story-telling, but the interaction of diverse cultures fostered by shotgun houses is certainly a major one. 
 Politicians and developers eying New Orleans today should bear all this in mind. Is it possible to create by destroying, especially when there is no need to do so? Why not treat those thousands of lower-income homeowners with the respect due to them as citizens, rather than as the objects of social experiments? Why not rehabilitate and restore, rather than demolish? Why not engage local practitioners of age-old crafts in this work, and build on their experience rather than obliterating it? 
 New Orleans is a damaged organism, but a living one. It deserves to be treated in the manner in which careful doctors treat their patients. In the words of the Hippocratic oath, ''First, do no harm.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about residential architecture in New Orleans misattributed the phrase ''do no harm.'' It is from Hippocrates' work ''Epidemics,'' not from the Hippocratic oath.

GRAPHIC: Photo: MUSIC BOXES -- The jazz trumpeter Bunk Johnson, who taught Louis Armstrong, lived in a shotgun house, left, in the Garden District. (Photo by S. Frederick Starr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); HISTORY (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (71%); WEATHER (71%); HURRICANES (70%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Restoration and Rehabilitation

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (56%)

PERSON: S Frederick Starr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



501 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Refineries And Rigs Shut Down For Storm

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Energy companies stepped up evacuations of offshore operations and rushed to secure refineries on the Texas coast yesterday as they prepared for Hurricane Rita, which was upgraded to a Category 5 hurricane packing winds up to 165 miles an hour. The storm appeared to be headed for the heart of the nation's oil industry. 
 With traders uncertain where the full fury of the hurricane might fall, oil prices moved higher but closed below their peaks for the day. The stock market also took a blow yesterday, with the Dow industrials falling more than 100 points, to 10,378.03, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined by 0.91 percent, to 1,210.20. 
After being hit hard by Hurricane Katrina just three weeks ago, the energy industry could face a far greater test if Hurricane Rita causes extensive damage and shutdowns along the Texas coast. How much worse the situation could be, industry experts said, will depend on exactly where the hurricane makes landfall, how strong it is when it does, and how quickly electricity, telephones and other basic services can be restored.
 The storm could also have serious economic and environmental consequences for chemical manufacturers on the Texas coast. More than 160 plants in Texas are in the potential path of the storm, according to the American Chemistry Council. Roughly half the nation's chemical-production capacity is in the region.
 Texas is home to 26 refineries, representing more than a quarter of the nation's crude oil processing capacity. Of those refineries, 17 are in cities along the coast.
 By comparison, Katrina initially disabled about 10 refineries in Louisiana and Mississippi, accounting for 10 percent of the nation's capacity. Roughly half of that output remains out of service.
 BP and Royal Dutch Shell said they were shutting refineries that together process 770,000 barrels of oil a day, or 4.5 percent of domestic capacity. And Exxon Mobil said it was moving nonessential employees further inland from its Baytown plant, which processes 557,000 barrels a day.
 ''The potential impact is much more serious,'' said Kenneth M. Stern, a managing director at FTI Consulting in New York. ''We all sort of hope that Rita is not as strong as Katrina, but if you put them on an equal basis you are talking about nearly three times the amount of refining capacity that is at risk.''
 Crude oil for November delivery finished up 60 cents, or 0.9 percent, at $66.80 a barrel yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange. October gasoline futures ended up 7.65 cents, or 3.9 percent, at $2.0531 a gallon.
 The National Hurricane Center said that Hurricane Rita was expected to land as at least a Category 3 storm on the Texas coast between the Mexican border and western Louisiana by the weekend. Officials in Galveston, the island city 50 miles southeast of Houston, ordered a mandatory evacuation.
 ''The farther south it hits, the better it is as far as petroleum and gasoline are concerned,'' said Robert S. Linden, a managing consultant of the PA Consulting Group in Washington.
 Like Hurricane Katrina, Hurricane Rita's biggest impact on the energy sector will probably be felt at refineries, the industrial workhorses that boil and pressurize crude oil in dangerous conditions to produce gasoline, diesel and other fuels. The nation's refineries have been running at or near capacity all year.
 After Katrina disrupted refineries and pipelines that deliver Gulf Coast fuel to the eastern half of the country, retail gasoline prices soared past $3 a gallon in many cities, a situation that could recur after Rita. Yesterday, the national average retail price for a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline was $2.764, down slightly from $2.788 but still higher than the $2.613 a month ago and $1.859 a year ago, according to AAA.
 One fuel distributor in Atlanta said wholesale prices were holding steady for now, but retailers and large commercial customers appeared to be ordering larger supplies for delivery in the coming days in anticipation of shortages.
 ''We are seeing a huge amount of demand in terms of people trying to top off their retail outlets and their terminals and tanks,'' the distributor, Tex Pitfield, president and chief executive of Saraguay Petroleum, said. ''The product is readily available for the most part, but nobody has the trucks.''
 Analysts say that even if Hurricane Rita does not devastate refineries, their shutdown will make tight supplies even scarcer.
 ''Even if you restart on Sunday, it's going to be two, three or four days before they are fully operational,'' said Thomas Bentz, an analyst at BNP Paribas. ''Can we afford to have that much supply out of the market? It doesn't seem that we can.''
 Soaring retail gasoline prices after Hurricane Katrina led to numerous calls for investigations into allegations of price gouging. The Federal Trade Commission has started an investigation, as required under a energy law adopted this year. 
 ''I don't know we have seen any evidence of manipulation,'' John H. Seesel, an associate general counsel for the commission, said in a telephone interview. ''But that's what the investigation is meant to find out.'' 
 Whether Hurricane Rita leads to the kinds of price spikes and spot shortages seen earlier this month could depend greatly on consumers.
 After falling for the first two weeks after Hurricane Katrina, demand for gasoline rose 2.1 percent in the week that ended Sept. 16, according to the Energy Information Administration. 
 In one encouraging sign, gasoline inventories rose 1.8 percent, to 195.4 million barrels, slightly above where they were before Katrina struck, indicating that imports and domestic refineries have been able to make up some of the lost production.
 As for offshore facilities, energy companies shut 73.1 percent of oil production yesterday, up from 58.5 percent on Tuesday, and 47.13 percent of natural gas production, up from 34.8 percent, according to the Interior Department. The companies also evacuated more than half of their platforms and rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.
 Those numbers will rise as energy companies move workers off platforms and rigs in phases, evacuating those farthest east and closest to the storm first before moving to platforms closer to shore.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two oil drilling platforms were at the Port of Galveston in Texas for repairs this month. As of yesterday, companies had evacuated more than half their platforms and rigs in the Gulf of Mexico as Hurricane Rita neared. (Photo by David Einsel/Getty Images)(pg. C18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); WEATHER (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FUTURES (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (75%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Refineries; Production; Shutdowns (Institutional); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (81%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (59%); FTI CONSULTING INC (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Bp Plc; Royal Dutch/shell Group ; Exxon Mobil

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (81%); RDSA (AMS) (81%); RDS.B (NYSE) (81%); RDS.A (NYSE) (81%); XOM (NYSE) (59%); FCN (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (81%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (59%); NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%) Texas; Baytown (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



502 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Warns Of Imbalance In World Consumption

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
The United States is likely to experience slower economic growth next year, and its rapidly rising foreign debt is at the heart of dangerous global imbalances, the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday.
 The fund said that global economic growth had become too dependent on a handful of countries, led by the United States, that consume far more than they produce. That imbalance, it warned in its semiannual World Economic Outlook, could lead to a wrenching correction.
In an evident reference to the United States, with its big budget deficits and relentless consumer spending, the I.M.F. warned that the world's consumption is ''fueled by increasingly unsustainable fiscal stimulus, as well as housing prices that are ignoring the laws of gravity.'' 
 But it also bluntly criticized the European Union, which it said would continue to grow at an anemic pace, for failing to relax rigid labor laws and to rein in welfare systems.
 ''Europe's citizens do not seem convinced that the bitter medicine of continued structural reforms will cure the stasis that afflicts much of the Continent,'' said Raghuram Rajan, the fund's director of research. ''It is a failure of politics that people have not come to see that the more they want to retain the attractive European way of life, the more the way they work will have to change.''
 Over all, the report predicted that American economic growth would slow to 3.3 percent in 2006 from about 3.5 percent this year. The economies of the 12 nations that use the euro as a common currency will expand only 1.8 percent next year, the report predicted, up from 1.2 percent in 2005.
 Japan, which has had little real growth over the last decade, was one of the few industrial nations where forecasts for growth were revised upward. With signs that Japan's long battle with deflation is nearly over, and consumption rising, the fund said that Japan's economy is likely to expand by 2 percent next year. Six months ago, it predicted that Japan would have no growth.
 The I.M.F.'s economists indicated that they did not expect Hurricane Katrina's effects to put a strong dent in the American economy, shaving growth, they estimated, by one-tenth of a percentage point.
 But they expressed considerable worry about the impact of high oil prices, which have shot up by more than $20 a barrel this year and been above $60 a barrel since early in August. (Oil settled in New York on Wednesday at $66.80.) Indeed, the fund warned that another surge in oil prices, perhaps to $80 a barrel, remained possible.
 In the report, released in advance of the annual board meetings in Washington this weekend of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the fund ratcheted up previous warnings about global imbalances.
 The United States' total trade deficit is expected to approach $700 billion this year and to be around 6 percent of the gross domestic product. Put another way, the United States is soaking up a record share of the world's savings and investment money. As it has in the past, the fund said the American financial imbalance had been aggravated by the large budget deficits.
 Even without the huge expected federal costs for rebuilding areas damaged by hurricanes, the I.M.F. said, the Bush administration's goal for deficit reduction remained ''unambitious.'' 
 President Bush and Republicans in Congress have begun to propose spending cuts to offset part of the hurricane and flood costs. But administration officials continued Wednesday to call for making Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent, which would cost at least $1.4 trillion over 10 years, and they oppose proposals to delay the start of the Medicare drug program, which is expected to cost about $45 billion a year.
 ''We want to be sure that the way we address the imbalances maximizes growth,'' said Timothy D. Adams, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. ''It's a shared responsibility.''
 The I.M.F. report agreed with that, at least in part. It attributed much of the widening global imbalance to European and Asian countries, noting that domestic demand in Europe remained weak, leaving the United States as the world engine for growth in consumption. And it warned that Europe's weakness made it more vulnerable to shocks from oil prices, higher global interest rates or a big change in currency exchange rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); DEFLATION (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); FUTURES (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); WEATHER (67%); HURRICANES (65%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (53%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends; Bush, George W (Pres); Taxation; Social Conditions and Trends; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Floods; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); ASIA (79%) Europe; European Union; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



503 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Tenure, Turnover and the Quality of Teaching 

BYLINE: By Hal R. Varian. 
Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California, Berkeley.

 BODY:
TEACHER quality has become a highly politicized issue. In November, Californians will vote on Proposition 74, which weakens tenure rules for kindergarten through 12th-grade teachers. Not surprisingly, Republicans and Democrats are lined up on opposite sides of the issue, with debate focusing on the impact of the proposition on teacher quality.
 But what is teacher quality? How can one measure it reliably? How does it relate to student learning? What can be done to improve it? 
Though these issues are endlessly debated, there is little consensus. Generally, good teachers like to teach good students in good schools. Well, sure, but what is cause and what is effect?
 A National Bureau of Economic Research working paper by Eric Hanushek, John Kain, Daniel O'Brien and Steven Rivkin called ''The Market for Teacher Quality'' sheds some light on these contentious issues. (A summary of the paper and a link to the text are at www.nber.org/digest/aug05/w11154.html.) 
 Their analysis is based on a sample of data from a Texas school district. They argue convincingly that teacher effectiveness should be measured by students' gains on standardized tests: Mr. Smith is presumably a better teacher than Ms. Brown if his students consistently improve their test scores more than hers do. 
 Though this approach is appealing, there are tricky issues. For example, what if Ms. Brown teaches in a school where students score so high there is little room for improvement? 
 The authors try to correct for this problem, as well as other sorts of measurement issues, to generate a measurement of teacher effectiveness. The paper is primarily concerned with how this measure is related to other observable teacher characteristics.
 The first finding is that there is a large variation in teacher effectiveness: some teachers consistently have a larger impact on their students' achievement than others.
 Second, easily observable characteristics like having a master's degree or a passing score on the teacher certification exam are not correlated with teacher effectiveness.
 Then what does matter? The most important single influence is experience: first-year teachers are much less effective than others. The second year is significantly better, and by the fourth year, most teachers hit their stride.
 It is not entirely clear whether this experience effect is learning by doing (the more you teach, the more effective you become) or survival of the fittest (those who are not good at teaching tend to drop out early).
 If learning by doing is the major effect, then principals should emphasize teacher retention, reasoning that new teachers will do better with time. If survival of the fittest is the major effect, then principals should encourage teachers who are faltering after their first year to leave sooner rather than later.
 From my reading of the paper, both effects appear important and there is no simple answer. The data do suggest, however, that teacher effectiveness is pretty clear by the end of the second year, so the information to make an informed decision is available at that time. 
 The authors also investigate the contentious issue of racial matching of students and teachers. Here they find strong evidence that minority teachers tend to be more effective with minority students. ''Students who have had both a black and a white teacher perform better relative to classmates during the year in which they had a teacher of their own race,'' they said. Again, it is unclear whether this is because of a role model effect (students respond better to a teacher of their own race) or an empathy effect (teachers empathize better with students of their own race) or something else entirely.
 The authors also look at teacher mobility. There is some evidence that teachers who quit teaching or switch schools tend to be below average in effectiveness. This is consistent with the survival-of-the-fittest model.
 But, interestingly enough, the quality of those who leave is significantly lower in the year they leave than in the previous year. Once again, two interpretations are possible: Perhaps the teachers have a particularly bad year, which pushes them over the edge in terms of the decision to leave, or once they have decided to leave they may slack off in effort.
 Finally, the authors examine whether experienced and effective teachers who move to a different district receive better compensation packages. They find little evidence that they do, though this is a weak conclusion because of the small sample size. Other work suggests that schools may trade quality for lower turnover.
 Clearly, teacher turnover is a critical issue in several ways: it absorbs a significant amount of management attention and has a major impact on student learning. Getting teacher retention policies right can make a big difference for student achievement, particularly in schools serving disadvantaged students.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC TENURE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (83%) National Bureau of Economic Research

PERSON: Hal R Varian; Eric Hanushek; John Kain; Daniel O'Brien; Steven Rivkin

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



504 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Fears About Hurricane Rita Send Shares Down Sharply

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks were sharply lower yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling more than 100 points, as traders worried about the damage that Hurricane Rita might wreak on Texas refineries. 
 Stocks slid after oil futures rose as much as $2 a barrel in morning trading. While economists have debated the long-term economic effect of Hurricane Katrina, few have ventured to guess what a hit from another powerful hurricane might mean to long-term oil prices and the economy. 
The new hurricane, which was raised to a Category 5 storm, is expected to make landfall, most likely in Texas, by the weekend. 
 BP began closing some of its refinery operations yesterday. 
 ''Hurricane Rita, and its corollary affect on energy prices, is moving the market today, no question about it,'' said William Hummer, chief economist at Wayne Hummer Investments. ''Uncertainty is poison for the market.'' 
 Trading was heavy at 1.94 billion shares. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 103.49 points, or 1 percent, to 10,378.03. Over the last three sessions, the Dow has fallen 263.91 points, or 2.48 percent. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 11.14 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,210.20, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 24.69 points, or 1.2 percent, to 2,106.64. 
 With no significant economic data released yesterday, traders focused on Tuesday's Federal Reserve interest rate increase, which is widely seen as a sign that the Fed is worried about inflation. 
 In its policy statement, the Fed described inflation expectations as ''contained'' instead of ''well contained.'' 
 ''It makes me think that the economic risk is more stagflationary than it has been,'' said Brian Gendreau, investment strategist at ING Investment Management. 
 The market had been split on whether the Fed would pause its rate increases because of Hurricane Katrina, but now that it has set a course for a continuation of the rate increases, some investors are beginning to become more concerned about inflation.
 Government data emphasizes the core rate of inflation; that is, inflation with fluctuations in the cost of energy and food stripped out. But with higher oil prices seemingly here to stay, some on Wall Street are saying that inflation is higher than the government wants to acknowledge. 
 In company news, American International Group declined $1.11, to $59.40, after it said late Tuesday that it expected $1.1 billion in after-tax losses for the third quarter, mainly because of claims from Hurricane Katrina. 
 FedEx rose $6.15, to $83.15, after it said that first-quarter profit rose modestly, weighed down by an accounting charge, while revenue showed solid growth as daily package volume expanded. 
 Setting aside a one-time charge from changing its lease accounting, earnings would have been $1.25 a share, well above analysts' estimates. 
 Avon Products fell $3.60, to $27, after the company cut its 2005 earnings forecast late Tuesday. Its new forecast is well below both the company's previous forecast and analysts' expectations. Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock to equal weight from overweight on the news. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 18/32, to a price of 100 20/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.17 percent, from 4.24 percent on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); HURRICANES (92%); FUTURES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); COMPANY EARNINGS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); WAYNE HUMMER INVESTMENTS LLC (56%); ING GROEP NV (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%); INGA (BIT) (53%); INGA (AMS) (53%); ING (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



505 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Teenagers Shop For Art of the Deal

BYLINE: By RUTH LAFERLA

 BODY:
GABY Yosca can stretch a dollar like a bungee chord. Last weekend, during an hourlong shopping expedition at a Salvation Army store in downtown Manhattan, Ms. Yosca, a 15-year-old sophomore at the Dalton School, worked with a budget that was modest but elastic enough in her expert hands to accommodate four dresses, an aqua-tinted tank top, a brown corduroy blazer, two silk shirts, two belts, a pocketbook and a volume on makeup. ''I scored,'' she gloated as she watched the cashier ring up her haul for a grand total of $62.50. Scooping it up, she glanced at her mother, Susan Yosca, who stood waiting outside flashing her a thumbs up. 
 ''I just love watching her shop,'' Mrs. Yosca said, beaming. ''I can give her $50, and she comes up with a wardrobe.''
Ms. Yosca, as she may be aware, typifies a new breed of dollar-conscious teenager. Many are the offspring of affluent parents and have the means to pay retail prices for, say, a coveted Chloe Paddington Bag, Seven jeans or Ralph Lauren bed linens. But they would rather chase a deal. 
 Escalating prices, a jump of as much as 20 percent in the last year, have made some teenagers budget-conscious. Still others are tightening their purse strings in response to a shift in personal values, which often contrast markedly with those of their parents, for whom money has rarely been an object in the headlong pursuit of material goods. 
 ''Today not everyone in this country wants to be like Paris Hilton,'' said Juliet B. Schor, the author of ''Born to Buy: The Commercialized Child and the New Consumer Culture'' (Scribner, 2004). Dr. Schor, who teaches a class on consumerism at Boston College, said she has noticed a new frugality in her students' diaries of their buying patterns. For many influential teenage consumers, she said, ''it has become socially acceptable, indeed there is even a positive valence to going to shop at discount retailers.'' 
 Spending by teenagers has dropped 4 percent in the last year to $158 billion, according to Teenage Research Unlimited, which tracks consumer habits. ''We find although teens are naturally optimistic, reality has begun to intrude itself,'' said Rob Callender, the trends director for the company. ''Teens are becoming rather more value-conscious.''
 Call them cheapskates. They don't mind. For this group, pinching pennies is a competitive sport: a test of cunning and a point of pride.
 ''It's more fun for these kids to be in the know and connected than to march into a store and pay retail,'' said Irma Zandl, a youth marketing consultant who observes the buying habits of teenagers. ''It's cool to be smart about how little you spend.'' 
 Ms. Yosca, for instance, would rather raid her mother's jewelry box than buy trinkets at the mall. And she shops for vintage clothes and accessories at flea markets at the New Jersey shore, where she spends summer weekends. She has learned to practice fiscal restraint. ''I always test myself,'' she said. ''If I see something in a magazine I really like, I'll put it aside. If I still want it in about four weeks, I'll actually consider it. By that time it might be on sale.''
 The tendency of some teenagers to scrimp where their elders might splurge runs counter to a time-honored trend that has gathered steam in recent years. Many an adolescent's self-esteem and standing with peers has been and still is measured largely by the heft of his or her pocketbook and penchant for living large. But they are shifting their patterns of consumption. While it may still be true that few can resist the blandishments of high-tech gadgets like the iPod Nano, Motorola Razr or Sony PSP, to name a handful, many are placing voluntary curbs on day-to-day expenditures like cosmetics, compact discs and clothing. 
 ''It's not so much that teenagers are spending less in total than they always have, but that they're wising up about what to spend it on,'' said Tina Wells, the director and founder of the Buzz Marketing Group, a New York market research company that interviews American high school and college students. In a shift of priorities, many today are pressuring their parents to pay for such high-ticket expenditures as cable on demand, a satellite car radio system, TiVo or additional cellphone minutes. ''But when it comes to typical categories of big spending -- fashion and beauty -- they're just over it,'' Ms. Wells said. 
 Ashlee Nola, 20, and Samantha, 17, her sister, illustrate the point. They live in Montgomery, Ala., with their mother, an executive for a software developer, and father, a software designer. They could well afford to splash out occasionally on her favorite Chanel lipstick but would rather not. ''Everybody wants more for their dollar, even younger people do,'' Ashlee said, acknowledging that she has taken some of her shopping cues from her younger sister. 
 Recently she looked on, impressed, as Samantha covetously eyed a $30 pair of jeans at an Abercrombie & Fitch clearance sale, then turned on her heel and walked out of the store. ''She could see that $30 for jeans is not a clearance price,'' Ashlee recalled. ''So she went elsewhere and got the same pair of pants for $12. Now that's a deal.''
 The sisters bypass local department stores like the Parisian in favor of value-oriented emporiums like Kohl's. This month Ashlee spent $20 at the store's makeup counter. ''I got everything there: three eye shadows, eyeliner, powder, concealer, foundation, brushes, two lipsticks and I don't remember what all,'' she said. ''If I went to Chanel with $20, I could only have gotten, maybe one thing.'' 
 Those crafty economies extend to the purchase of music, which the sisters prefer to download at low cost from the Internet, and schoolbooks, which Ashlee and her friends buy used at the local student book exchange. ''They're raggedy, but we don't care,'' Ashlee said.
 Armed with an arsenal of new information, the Nolas and many of their contemporaries have become expert comparison shoppers in ways that their elders could scarcely have conceived. ''I like to call them the Google generation,'' Ms. Wells said. ''People forget that access to the Web is completely changing the retail scenario. Now you can go online, and you can compare of bunch of products without ever leaving your computer screen.''
 Web sites like eBay and Overstock.com are among the beneficiaries of frugal adolescents. ''In the past year or so we've noticed that a lot of our junior apparel has started flying off the shelf,'' said Stormy Simon, the vice president for offline marketing at Overstock. Those findings, she added, were a surprise. She was equally taken aback to discover that in the last year the company has seen a 97 percent growth in users under age 24. ''We really haven't targeted those guys,'' she said. ''That category is new for us.''
 Many youngsters are made queasy by the ostentatious display of wealth. Girls in particular are taking their style lead from Mary-Kate Olsen, the self-made celebrity multimillionaire, who plays down the showiness of her Balenciaga Lariat bag by wearing it with a moth-eaten sweater and jeans. ''Kids are asking themselves, 'If Mary-Kate is so rich and she doesn't spend her money, why do I have to spend money to look like her?''' said Lara Fox, an 18-year-old freshman at Brown, adding, ''No matter how wealthy you are, its really obnoxious to pay high prices.''
 Ms. Fox is an author of ''Breaking the Code'' (New American Library, 2005), a book that suggests ways for parents to communicate effectively with their teenagers. Like many of her peers she is motivated by a budding social conscience but perhaps as much by a conviction that to practice thrift is to rate the approval of her peers. Rather than shopping at Crate & Barrel or Gracious Home, a Manhattan chain selling high-priced bedroom and bathroom decor, she outfits her dorm room at Bed, Bath & Beyond. ''That's where I get the best deals,'' she said. ''Besides, today you can be cheap and be someone's idol for doing it.''
 For her high school counterparts, finding deals comes down to a test of prowess. Tom Bettridge, 15, a sophomore at Dalton in New York, counts among his recent shopping trophies a cache of vinyl records unearthed at a yard sale and a pair of 70's-vintage polyester trousers from Aardvaark, a popular San Francisco resale shop. ''It's almost impossible to get all the new clothes and music you want at full price,'' he said. ''When you're my age you don't have that kind of money.'' 
 Bargain hunting makes him feel practical and virtuous, Mr. Bettridge said. But there are other, less obvious rewards. ''It's kind of a skill to find cool clothes for cheap money,'' he went on to boast. ''The real bonus is that you know -- and that other people know -- when you've scored a find.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: FOCUS ON THRIFT -- Gaby Yosca, a 15-year-old New Yorker, made a huge haul on a trip to a Salvation Army store, finding several outfits and a book, all for $62.50. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
BARGAIN HUNTERS -- Samantha Nola, left, and her sister Ashlee in Alabama. (Photo by Amy E. Voigt for The New York Times)
 PERFECT FIT -- Ms. Yosca said she is learning fiscal restraint when she shops. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); TEENS MARKET (88%); RETAILERS (78%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); TRENDS (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); YOUTH MARKET (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (68%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%) Apparel; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Children and Youth

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (50%); RALPH LAUREN (50%) Ruth La Ferla

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (59%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



506 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; BASKETBALL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Hornets Find Home For Season At 2 Sites

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The New Orleans Hornets announced yesterday that they would play 35 home games this season in Oklahoma City and 6 at the Pete Maravich Assembly Center in Baton Rouge, La. 
 The announcement came nine days after the Saints agreed to leave their hurricane-ravaged city to play four home games in Baton Rouge and three in San Antonio.
 ''Of all the cities, Oklahoma City was the best geographical match in terms of travel for our teams,'' David Stern, the N.B.A. commissioner, said by telephone. ''If the Hornets do well in Oklahoma City, we expect that they would not return economically hobbled.'' 
 The Hornets have an option to play a second season at the Ford Center.
 Other cities that expressed public interest and spoke to Stern or the team included Las Vegas; Tampa, Fla.; Montreal; Vancouver, British Columbia; Kansas City, Mo.; and Nashville.
 The Hornets left Charlotte, N.C., after 14 years for New Orleans, the former home of the Jazz, which left for Salt Lake City in 1979. But the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina forced the Hornets and the Saints to make emergency relocations shortly before their seasons began.
 Stern said it was not an overwhelming task to temporarily shift the Hornets, given Oklahoma City's proximity to other teams in the Southwest Division -- San Antonio, Dallas, Houston and Memphis -- and the size of the Ford Center, which seats 19,675 for basketball.
 ''We have the assets, the resources, the marketing and business operations to make this work,'' Stern said. ''This is what we're geared to do.''
 The Hornets were once the darlings of Charlotte, averaging 24,042 fans a game at their peak. But the team's attractiveness eroded after the 1997-98 season, as fans grew disgruntled by player misbehavior, an eroding relationship with the city and the owners' push to replace Charlotte Coliseum with a new arena.
 By the Hornets' final season in Charlotte, their attendance average of 11,286 was the league's lowest. But they moved to a market that has not come close to a full embrace. 
 Last season, their average was the league's lowest -- 14,221 of 17,200 seats at New Orleans Arena -- as their record sank to 18-64 from 41-41 in 2003-4, when their attendance was 29th out of 30 teams.
 Stern said the team's relative lack of success in New Orleans made it easier for the Oklahoma City government, the state and private investors to use the Hornets' modest revenues last season as the benchmark for a rent-free lease.
 The deal guarantees that the city, state and private investors will pay the shortfall in the Hornets' arena revenues between $30 million and $40 million, the latter figure being about what the Hornets grossed in 2004-5. 
 The city will also pay game-day, housing, office, training-camp and other expenses that the team will start to reimburse if and when revenues exceed $42.5 million.
 ''We want to make sure,'' George Shinn, the team's owner, said yesterday at a news conference with Mick Cornett, the Oklahoma City mayor, ''that you and the elders of this community will say after all this is over that this was worth it.''
 For the city, hosting the Hornets is a chance to show that it can host a major league franchise. Cornett said that he had been talking to Stern since January about landing a team and that he proposed his city as a site for the Hornets soon after New Orleans was flooded.
 ''We've been a minor league city, and overnight we'll be a major league city,'' Cornett said. ''There's an urgency to prove we belong.'' 
 He said he was not thinking beyond this season, when the Hornets could stay or return to a rebuilding city. He added, ''I don't think the N.B.A. knows what to think about the New Orleans.''
 Clay Bennett, who runs Dorchester Capital in Oklahoma City and led the local business effort to import the Hornets, said the city -- where 168 people died in the terrorist blast of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in 1995 -- was sensitive to the impact of the natural disaster in the Gulf Coast.
 ''Our tenor isn't that we're trying to steal the Hornets away,'' he said, ''but if this works, we want to be a city that is considered for a relocation or expansion.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); HURRICANES (77%); SPORTS FANS (76%); SPORTS REVENUES (76%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CHARLOTTE HORNETS (94%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (84%); UTAH JAZZ (55%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (56%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (56%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (56%); DALLAS, TX, USA (54%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



507 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3207 words

HEADLINE: Possible Conflicts for Doctors Are Seen on Medical Devices

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON; Walt Bogdanich contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
As an assistant professor at the Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center in Shreveport, Dr. William Overdyke oversaw operations to replace worn-down knees. From 2000 through the middle of 2001, whenever a patient needed an artificial knee, he or the residents he supervised implanted one made by Sulzer Medical, state documents show. 
 Dr. Overdyke has said that he used the Sulzer implant because it was the best available. But Louisiana state officials say he had another incentive as well: the $175,000 a year that he stood to make from contracts with the company. The contracts called for him to consult on product design and ''promote and educate other surgeons'' on the virtues of Sulzer products.
 Before signing with Sulzer, Dr. Overdyke said, he had never used the company's artificial knee. Earlier he had a contract with another company, Wright Medical. And during that time, he and his residents largely used Wright's artificial knees. 
 Dr. Overdyke paid $10,000 in fines after investigators determined that his consulting arrangements with Sulzer were an improper conflict of interest under the state ethics code. Hospital officials said they had been unaware of his relationship with the company. 
 Yet in a variety of ways, many doctors have unusually close, if largely unseen, ties to device makers. And those relationships are a central issue on an emerging battleground in the health care wars: the upward cost spiral of implantable medical devices. 
 Countless patients have been helped by these new technologies -- artificial knees that allow aging weekend athletes to play on, stents that help keep once-clogged arteries clear, defibrillators that correct potentially fatal heart arrhythmias. 
 But the rising cost of the devices and the relationships between doctors and manufacturers are causing profound concern among hospital executives, health care economists and other experts, mirroring recent reactions to the way pharmaceuticals are marketed. In the last two years, Medicare payments to hospitals for implant surgery have risen about 40 percent, from $10 billion to $14 billion, according to an analysis of Medicare records. And federal prosecutors have begun to investigate some device makers' deals with doctors, trying to determine if they amount to payoffs for using a product. 
 Among the loudest objectors have been hospitals, which buy the devices and most immediately feel the pain. But health care economists stress that consumers and insurers are also hurt by the rising cost of medical technology, including implantable devices. 
 ''We're paying for it, but no one can see it,'' said Paul Ginsburg, president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a research group in Washington. 
 The device companies occupy a privileged corner of the medical economy, where many of the checks and balances that have come to govern health care costs simply do not apply. Hospital officials and health care experts say the companies have used their relationships with doctors and a climate of secrecy to ensure that their products remain unusually profitable. 
 Central to this equation are the surgeons, who typically decide which devices are used yet bear no financial burden for their costs. Hospitals, which do bear that burden, have been reluctant to challenge doctors about their choices and are mostly in the dark about the inner workings of the marketplace. One large device company, Guidant, has even sued two hospital consultants because they divulged pricing information to competing hospitals.
 Prices paid by hospitals vary widely, yet information is so scarce that hospitals say they are often unaware if they are overpaying, and impotent to negotiate a better price. Many hospital executives say some orthopedic and cardiovascular operations, once a major profit center, have become a marginal, even money-losing, endeavor.
 Nor do the hospitals generally know which of their doctors have relationships with the device companies and if so, the details of those arrangements. In addition to six-figure consulting agreements that also pay doctors to promote a given device, companies pay royalties on new devices, send doctors to educational conferences, sponsor fellowships and provide unrestricted grants. 
 The device companies' trade association, AdvaMed, says the industry is highly competitive and spends heavily on innovation. As for the consulting contracts and other benefits, the companies and doctors say they are intended not to buy loyalty but to pay for research and training and for the help doctors provide in designing these sophisticated devices.
 Two years ago, AdvaMed approved a voluntary code of ethics that recommends limiting the value of company gifts to under $100 and hiring consulting doctors for their expertise, rather than their abilities to generate the most business. 
 ''If there have been inappropriate payments made, I think companies regret that, and that's why they have been aggressive in implementing this code of ethics,'' said Blair Childs, an AdvaMed executive vice president.
 The president of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, Dr. Stuart L. Weinstein, says that since doctors are responsible for most of the innovations in medical devices, ''There have to be these close relationships between surgeons and industry.'' What is important, he adds, is that these relationships are aboveboard and disclosed to the patient, and that the doctor chooses the best device for that patient. 
 In March, the United States attorney in Newark issued subpoenas to five orthopedic implant companies, asking them about their consulting agreements and other arrangements with doctors. ''A number of investigations are under way,'' said Lewis Morris, chief counsel to the inspector general for the Department of Health and Human Services.
 The question for investigators, he said, is whether the companies and the doctors have crossed a line from legitimate compensation for valuable services rendered in the development of the devices to unethical payoffs for securing competitive advantage in a crowded marketplace. 
 ''The potential for inappropriately steering medical decisions is always at play, and there is always the risk that doctors will prescribe a particular device because of their own financial interest and not the interest of the patient,'' Mr. Morris said.

A Potential Conflict
 In the modern health care marketplace, prices and fees are increasingly determined by negotiation. Yet when it comes to implantable devices, that dynamic often barely exists. Even though the Lee Memorial Health System in Florida is one of the nation's busiest joint replacement centers, James R. Nathan, the system's chief executive, says he has little leverage negotiating discounts. The marketplace, he says, ''doesn't work.'' 
 Part of the blame lies with the hospitals, which often seem to lack the financial sophistication needed to negotiate lower prices for these devices. While hospitals have been successful at cutting costs for standard supplies like light bulbs and bandages, many hospitals' accounting systems are so inadequate that they have little idea what they actually pay for more complex devices, said Dr. John Cherf, a knee surgeon with a business degree who consults with hospitals and health care businesses.
 With manufacturers guarding pricing information closely, the price of a given device can vary by thousands of dollars from one hospital to the next. One hospital in the New York area, for example, paid $8,000 more for a DePuy hip than a competitor, according to a recent survey by the Greater New York Hospital Association. 
 ''It's almost been a black box around it, what people pay,'' said Timothy Glennon, an executive with the association, which is now examining prices for cardiac implants.
 Prices are soaring. A defibrillator now runs as much as $35,000; the price of the latest artificial knee approaches $10,000. A single screw used in spinal surgery can cost as much as $1,600. In all, in the last two years alone, spending on implant surgeries by Medicare, the federal insurer for the elderly, increased twice as fast as the program's spending over all, according to the Medicare analysis by Orthopedic Network News, an industry newsletter. 
 Rising prices have made device companies unusually profitable: according to an analysis by Medicare, they enjoyed net profit margins of nearly 20 percent at the end of 2003, more than twice the average for the Standard & Poor's index of 500 companies.
 The hospitals, though, say they are finding themselves squeezed, as rising costs outstrip any increases in reimbursement. While the average price paid for a hip or knee implant has climbed by about two thirds since 1995, according to estimates by Orthopedic Network News, reimbursement from Medicare, which pays for the bulk of these operations, has not increased.
 Hospital officials also argue that the constant introduction of new, and more expensive, models can have less to do with innovation than with the appearance of innovation. While some higher prices are a result of clear improvements, like a drug-coated stent that helps reduce scarring that can block an artery, hospitals say many new models offer no significant upgrades and sometimes are too sophisticated for patients who get them. 
 Dr. Calvin Weisberger, a cardiologist for the California health plan Kaiser Permanente, says an enhanced single chamber defibrillator costs $5,000 to $8,000 more than a basic model. ''The average patient does not need all of the bells and whistles,'' said Dr. Weisberger, who helps the plan's doctors and hospitals evaluate new devices. 
 Asked about the range of prices, the companies say it reflects a variety of business considerations, including volume. And Mr. Childs, the executive with the device-makers' trade group AdvaMed, argues that the hospitals' overall costs have not gone up significantly, because improvements in these devices let doctors operate faster and patients go home sooner. Medicare payments largely reflect the hospitals' overall costs, he said.
 Doctors, Mr. Childs says, do consider price when choosing implants. ''Physicians are a very discriminating customer,'' he said. ''It's not like you're selling to a bunch of stooges.''

Financial Ties
 For the device companies, the most important relationship is with the doctors, and they spend considerable money and energy nurturing it. ''The vendors work hard at these relationships,'' said Ed Epperson, chief executive of Carson-Tahoe Hospital in Nevada. The extent and precise nature of the relationships remain largely hidden. The companies and doctors are unwilling to discuss specific arrangements. Hospitals are often unaware of them, because the doctors using their operating rooms and admitting patients are usually not employees. Even academic medical centers may require the disclosure of financial ties only if a doctor is conducting a clinical trial. 
 Even so, a range of relationships begins to emerge from a review of published research, court papers and other government documents. And perhaps the clearest available view comes from the case of Dr. Overdyke in Louisiana. 
 Dr. Overdyke had been a consultant for Wright Medical, which paid him $150,000 to $200,000 annually, according to his deposition. His arrangement ended in 1998, and he soon became involved with Sulzer; at about the same time, a distributor to the hospital, MD Medical, also changed its representation to Sulzer. A founder of MD Medical later became Dr. Overdyke's wife.
 The contract with Sulzer paid Dr. Overdyke $75,000 a year to consult on the design of two products, including a refinement on one of its Apollo knee systems, and to ''promote and educate other surgeons on the benefits'' of these devices. He also signed two royalty agreements in 2001, each providing advances of $50,000 a year on products not yet being marketed.
 Over two years, the state university spent nearly $200,000 on Sulzer orthopedic products. Dr. Overdyke said he never told the residents which brand to use. Asked why the residents chose Sulzer, he replied, ''You'll have to ask them.'' 
 Dr. Overdyke was never accused of directly profiting from using Sulzer implants. But the hospital says his ties to Sulzer represented a clear conflict of interest under Louisiana ethics laws, which forbid state employees from doing business with companies with which they have financial ties. He left the hospital in 2001; the hospital says it did not renew his contract for reasons unrelated to his relationship with Sulzer. 
 Dr. Overdyke and his wife declined to discuss the case, their lawyer said; Zimmer, which has since bought Sulzer's business, also declined to comment. But the counsel for the state ethics board, R. Gray Sexton, said the case ''involved conditions routinely tolerated'' in private hospitals across the nation.
 Mr. Epperson, the Nevada hospital executive, says he sees some parallels to the practices employed by pharmaceutical companies, which have been criticized by consumer groups and regulators for trying to influence doctors with a variety of benefits. 
 In addition to consulting and royalty agreements, the device companies send doctors to educational conferences about their latest models. They provide financing to medical associations. DePuy, a unit of Johnson & Johnson, paid for a one-year foot and ankle fellowship at the University of Virginia Health System and financed a Web site for an orthopedic surgeon in Tulsa, Okla. 
 A DePuy spokeswoman said these payments helped educate surgeons and patients. Indeed, the device companies say their relationships with doctors differ from the drug makers' because the surgeons are intimately involved in perfecting new devices and techniques. The companies finance much of the clinical research in the field. And while a general practitioner may not need to go to Europe for a meeting on the latest painkiller, a surgeon using an artificial spinal disk for the first time may need training in how to implant it. 
 Still, hospitals say that the closeness of these relationships makes it almost impossible to enlist the physicians in the battle for better prices. Dr. Cherf, the knee surgeon, says the device industry has ''done a brilliant job'' exploiting the erosion of the traditional alliance between hospital and doctor. At the same time, hospital administrators and consultants say hospitals often hesitate to question surgeons' decisions, since the doctors are a main source of patients and revenue. 
 One hospital that did protest was Grant Medical Center in Columbus, Ohio, which in 2003 sued Biomet and one of its distributors, saying the distributor had tried to take advantage of an important orthopedic surgeon's insistence on using Biomet's implants. 
 The surgeon, Dr. Adolph V. Lombardi Jr., performed about 1,200 joint replacements a year at the hospital, according to the lawsuit. Grant Medical said the distributor had offered an ultimatum: pay 35 percent more or purchase a service agreement worth several hundred thousand dollars.
 While the lawsuit noted that Dr. Lombardi was conducting a clinical trial for Biomet, he also has financial ties to the company. He was a consultant and received royalties from Biomet, according to a 2004 disclosure statement. The foundation for a new hospital that he helped start owned $318,000 in Biomet stock, the foundation's 2003 public filing showed. 
 The case was settled; Dr. Lombardi, the hospital, company and distributor all declined to comment. 
 There is another central figure helping cement the company-doctor relationship: the sales representative. Because hospitals cannot afford to purchase the devices ahead of time, the representatives are often present during operations, sometimes helping the surgeon decide which implant to use. 
 Many hospital executives see that operating-room role as a potential conflict of interest, since the representative has every incentive to push the most sophisticated, and expensive, device. The representatives work on commission -- as much as 10 to 20 percent -- and can make as much, if not more, from an operation than the surgeon, industry consultants say. Representatives frequently make several hundred thousand dollars a year. 
 One former salesman said that to encourage a surgeon's loyalty, he used to pay the doctor's assistant $200 a case. ''It was a bonus they didn't have to pay with their money,'' said the representative, who insisted on not being identified because he still works in the industry and fears retribution.
 The Justice Department's investigation is seeking to determine if some of the companies' agreements violate federal laws barring doctors from being paid directly by device makers for using a certain implant. People in the industry said they believed that prosecutors were assessing whether doctors who were paid most under these arrangements were also the heaviest users of a company's implants. 
 Federal authorities had already been looking into sales practices at Medtronic's Sofamor Danek unit, which sells spinal implants. Now the inquiry has broadened to much of the orthopedic-implant industry, with the subpoenas to Stryker, Johnson & Johnson's DePuy unit, Zimmer, Biomet and Smith & Nephew. The companies say they are cooperating. 

A Rebellion Develops
 A rebellion has begun on several fronts. 
 Some hospitals are trying to align their interests more closely with those of their doctors. Some have begun meeting with doctors to decide which devices to buy. Others are discussing sharing savings from more efficient purchasing; HCA, the nation's largest for-profit hospital chain, is seeking federal approval for a plan to give its orthopedic surgeons 10 percent to 20 percent of such savings. 
 The device companies oppose this kind of arrangement, saying it could present an improper financial incentive to choose a certain device. ''I want to know my doctor is my advocate,'' said Mr. Childs, the trade association executive. 
 The hospital industry says that one essential factor for ending the cost spiral is the free exchange of information about prices. Some hospitals are relying on consultants like Amerinet and MedAssets, which provide information about what other hospitals are paying. 
 ''These are life-saving devices; America needs them,'' said John A. Bardis, MedAssets' chief executive. ''But we don't need the business practices, which prevent transparency and true price competition.''
 These efforts at transparency are drawing fierce resistance. A major device maker, Guidant, has sued two consultants, including a unit of MedAssets, accusing them of sharing confidential price information. MedAssets countersued, saying Guidant has tried to buy doctors' loyalty through consulting agreements and other inducements. 
 Each has denied the other's charges. The suit against the second consultant, Byrne Healthcare, has been settled. 
 With the Justice Department's inquiry looming, some people in the industry say change is inevitable. ''It's a broken system,'' said DeNene Cofield, the administrator who oversees surgical services for Medical Center East in Birmingham, Ala. ''And at some point, it will fall apart.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A knee replacement in a patient with osteoarthritis. (Photo by Zephyr/Photo Researchers Inc.)(pg. C1)
(Photographs by [top] Zephyr, [bottom] Dr. P. Marazzi via Photo Researchers)(pg. C6)Chart: ''The Economics of Replacement Parts''Hospital executives, health-care economists and other experts are concerned about the rising and widely varying prices of implantable medical devices. These devices are one of the fastest growing components of health care spending. Experts say the device market operates without traditional checks and balances.Manufacturers' prices varyThere are seemingly countless choices for implantable devices, and list prices vary widely. Hospitals say manufacturers exploit their relationships to doctors to charge high prices. Below, four similar devices made by a variety of major manufacturers that illustrate the range of list prices charged for a component of an artificial hip.HIP STEM COMPONENTS (one part of a hip replacement)2005 LIST PRICEMANUFACTURER DEPUY: $1,465STRYKER: $3,579WRIGHT MEDICAL: $4,800ZIMMER: $5,736Hospitals may pay substantially different prices for the same brand of implantable device.In New York, one hospital paid about $8,000 more for an artificial hip made by Johnson & Johnson's DePuy division than another hospital paid, according to a survey by the Greater New York Hospital Association. A few hospitals paid more than $12,000 for the hip, while one association member was able to purchase it for less than half that amount.An x-ray of an artificial hipHospitals in other countries frequently pay lower prices for devices.The price of the same brand and model of knee may be almost 50 percent higher in the United States than elsewhere. When HCA, the nation's largest for-profit chain of hospitals, bought an artificial cemented knee for its U.S. hospitals, it paid about $5,000 for the knee implant and the other components it needed. Its hospital in London paid $3,500 for the same model.An x-ray of an artificial knee(Illustrations of hip stems by Annie Gallup)(Sources by Orthopedic Network News
HCA
 Greater New York Hospital Association)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (90%); ETHICS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (89%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (87%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); HEART DISEASE (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); INSURANCE (64%) Medicine and Health; Surgery and Surgeons; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Doctors; Ethics; Implants; Hospitals; Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Medicine and Health; Advertising and Marketing; Hips; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: INCENTIVE AS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3581 AUTOMATIC VENDING MACHINES (72%)

PERSON: Reed Abelson

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



508 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Faster U.S. Aid Unlikely

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
A Bush administration proposal that sought to deliver a portion of American food aid more quickly and at lower cost to starving people around the world appears headed for defeat in Congress, though there is still a narrow chance a scaled-down version will survive in the Senate.
 The administration asked for authority to use a quarter of the $1.2 billion food aid budget provided to the Agency for International Development to buy corn, wheat and other commodities in the developing countries facing hunger crises, or in neighboring countries, rather than from American producers.
Now, the government must buy the food in American markets and send most of it on American-flagged ships. 
 Officials at the Agency for International Development said that having the flexibility to buy the food for an African crisis in Africa would make it possible to respond in some cases in weeks instead of months, feed more people with the same amount of money and potentially save thousands of lives.
 Andrew S. Natsios, administrator of the agency, said the government would be able to buy twice as much food for the same money in some situations because of the savings on transportation. ''You can't eat transportation,'' he said.
 But the change was dropped from the Senate's version of the agriculture appropriations bill expected to be voted on this week, though there is a chance part of the proposal will be restored. The provision was not in the House version, passed in June.
 The measure ran into fierce opposition from an array of agricultural and shipping interests with stakes in the program. And an alliance of nonprofit groups that receive food aid money also opposed using the program's core financing to buy food in developing countries. Rather, they favored a $100 million pilot program that would only go forward if Congress appropriated extra money for food aid, which they say is indefensibly short of money.
 A range of agricultural and development economists have long said such a policy option is sensible, so long as it is used wisely. But it is not always the best course, especially where there is a widespread shortage of food and purchasing locally would drive up prices, making food even less affordable. 
 But researchers and aid workers say it can be useful when there is a surplus in a different part of an afflicted nation or in a nearby country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); FOOD CHARITIES (91%); STARVATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); MARINE VESSELS (69%) Food; International Trade and World Market; Foreign Aid; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%)

PERSON: Celia W Dugger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



509 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; A Castle in Ruin, on a River That Nearly Was; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: An Expert on the Hudson Seeks Its Revitalization

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: BEACON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
As John Cronin sails toward the ruins of Bannerman's Island in the broad belly of the Hudson River, he sees a symbol of the challenges facing the waterway where he has spent much of his adult life. 
 He expertly pilots his 29-foot fishing boat, Trust, through the unmarked shallows to dock below the wrecked castle about 1,000 yards off the Beacon shore. Built a century ago by an eccentric arms dealer, it is a haunting relic of the past, and a metaphor for the Hudson's future.
''It's not just about fighting pollution anymore, it's about rebuilding the estuary,'' he said.
 Mr. Cronin is 55, though he looks 20 years younger, with a full head of ginger hair and just an ice-cream drip of grey in his beard. 
 Few know the Hudson as he does. In the 1980's he spent two and a half years as a commercial fisherman on the river -- which is actually an arm of the ocean, or salt-water estuary, for much of its length. He was better at talking than at netting sturgeon or American shad, so the Hudson River Fishermen's Association, an environmental watchdog group of sports and commercial fishermen, enlisted him as the Hudson's first river keeper. He held that position for 17 years, patrolling for polluters and fighting for the river. 
 When he turned 50 in 2000, he decided it was time for a change, and he left Riverkeeper, a private, nonprofit environmental organization founded in 1983 when the Hudson was a contaminated industrial pipeline of a river. With money from foundations and private contributors, Riverkeeper sued polluters and worked to convince the people of the Hudson Valley that they needed to roll up their sleeves and protect the river themselves. 
 Though he left Riverkeeper, Mr. Cronin did not leave the river. He become director of Pace University's Academy for the Environment. He is also managing director of the Rivers and Estuaries Center in Beacon, and is one of the few people with special permission from the state's parks department to visit Bannerman's Island.
 Mr. Cronin said that he welcomed recent news that the Hudson was clean enough for several beaches to be opened for swimming, and that the major lawsuits brought by Riverkeeper's lawyer, Robert F. Kennedy Jr., and others over the years have turned the river around significantly. 
 But a bit of the fisherman is still with him: a pragmatism born of cold mornings on the river and big plans smashed by a bad catch. He says there might be just a little too much backslapping going on about how clean the river is, and not enough recognition that the old ways of doing things just don't work anymore. 
 In saying that the fight for the Hudson must take a new tack, Mr. Cronin is putting forward what might be considered a Hudson River version of ''The Death of Environmentalism,'' the 2004 essay that roiled environmentalists with charges that outmoded concepts, confrontational methods and a lack of inspiring vision had sapped the movement's power.
 Despite many early successes, fish species have dwindled or disappeared, PCB's still poison the river bottom, recreational access to the water is extremely limited, and pollutants continue to pour into what television commentator Bill Moyers called ''America's first river.'' 
 Yet comparatively little money is spent on research, Mr. Cronin said, and public perception is skewed. Polls show that many people are reluctant to spend much time or money helping the river because they believe that it is already healthy. 
 In a recent survey conducted by Pace University, in cooperation with the Academy for the Environment, 55 percent of those responding rated the environment as excellent or very good. And 84 percent thought that polluting the Hudson was illegal. 
 But the major federal legislation on water pollution, the Clean Water Act of 1972, does not ban the discharge of all pollutants into the nation's waterways. The law only regulates what can be dumped into rivers, like the Hudson, where some industrial pollutants and wastewater from sewage treatment plants are still allowed with a state permit. 
 The environmental movement on the Hudson needs a new vision, Mr. Cronin said, one less focused on science and more in touch with the whole river system, including the communities along its banks. And just as a group of local people and businesses from the Beacon area are trying to stabilize what remains of the buildings on Bannerman's Island and open them to tourists, he says that the Hudson should be revitalized so it can again be a natural resource and economic engine for the region. 
 ''I don't think that rebuilding Bannerman's Island or restoring all the fish species to the Hudson is any more difficult than any of the other things we've accomplished so far,'' Mr. Cronin said from the decayed brick balcony of what remains of the Bannerman complex, about 50 miles north of New York City. 
 A fire in the 1960's gutted the island's main residence and turned the improbable five-story brick arsenal where Francis Bannerman stored his huge stock of Army-surplus weapons into ghostly ramparts that could haunt a youngster's dreams. 
 When he was a boy growing up in Yonkers, Mr. Cronin said, the only thing he knew about the Hudson was that he should stay away from it because it was dirty. ''The word polluted wasn't used back then,'' he said. He dreamed of becoming a baseball player before he fell in love with the river. Now his dream is to see the day when all discharges of pollutants are outlawed, a provision of the Clean Water Act that was abandoned in federal legislation. ''Since zero discharge was a centerpiece of the Clean Water Act, it should be the centerpiece of the Hudson's future,'' he said. But even though he has been involved in more than 100 environmental lawsuits, he said, he does not believe that this goal can be achieved by going back to court. Rather, he said, a new era in the movement is beginning. 
 ''The 20th century was the era of environmental brawn,'' he said. ''The 21st century must be the era of environmental brains.''
 Mr. Cronin is not alone in taking this view. The Garrison Institute, a nonprofit organization based in a renovated monastery in the Hudson Highlands, has begun a series of meetings to bring together environmentalists and faith-based religious groups to find a common language in the stewardship of the river. 
 ''We have to start by redefining what the river is,'' said Jonathan F.P. Rose, a founder of the institute. Earlier environmental battles were based on the science of stopping pollution, he said, but now the river must be seen as a part of a whole system that includes the communities alongside it and the effects of storm water runoff, sewage discharges and suburban sprawl.
 Mr. Rose said the bitter confrontations that pitted environmentalists against industry will no longer work. Mr. Cronin agrees, and that is quite a conversion for a man who spent years painting industries like G.E. as willful polluters. 
 He sees things differently now. ''We can't afford to have industry be permanent adversaries,'' he said. Rather, it is necessary to build partnerships that can bring together scientists, engineers, businesses, policy makers and environmentalists. 
 Mr. Cronin has started organizing the Environmental Consortium of Hudson Valley Colleges and Universities, 37 institutions that will make studying the Hudson River a priority. 
 And as he navigates Trust through the muddy shallows and back to the run-down landing in Beacon, Mr. Cronin is careful to keep an eye on the shifting current. Similarly, he says, it is important to keep on top of shifts in perceptions. 
 ''We environmentalists fighting for the river and bragging about our successes are probably not as in touch with public perceptions as we think we are,'' he said. ''Anybody of my daughter's generation, and she is 30, has every right to say to me when I'm talking about the past, 'That's an interesting story but I want to know what's going to happen in the next year, or the next five years.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Cronin, who watches over the Hudson, likens the castle on Bannerman's Island, top, to the river itself. Both are in need of revitalization, he says. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); RIVERS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FISHES (77%); BEACHES (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); STATE PARKS (73%); FINFISH FISHING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); LITIGATION (63%) Water Pollution; Bannerman Castle (NYS); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Water Pollution

ORGANIZATION: Hudson Riverkeeper (Orgn)

PERSON: Anthony Depalma; John Cronin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Hudson River; Beacon (NY); New York State; Bannerman's Island (NYS)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



510 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; BLOCKS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Matters of How Many and How Much at the Sept. 11 Memorial 

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
IF you build it, and they come, will you have room enough?
 The issue of crowd capacity at the World Trade Center memorial is not nearly as intriguing as the current melodrama over the tenancy of the cultural building on the site. Yet capacity has a lot more to do with how visitors will experience the memorial.
What makes this a tough issue is that concrete decisions must be based on widely diverging projections. Like chickens and eggs, capacity and demand have a circular relationship. The number of visitors cannot be reliably estimated until the memorial has been fully designed. But the memorial cannot be fully designed without a reliable estimate. And demand itself will be ever changing. 
 It would be fiscally imprudent and logistically daunting, given the competing claims for space on the trade center site, to build a memorial and memorial museum that could comfortably accommodate the biggest imaginable peak crowd on opening day. The resulting physical plant would be vastly overscaled for long-term use.
 ''We believe that certainly in the stabilized years, after the initial spike, that the memorial and the memorial museum will be able to accommodate the stabilized-year demand,'' Anne Papageorge, a senior vice president of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, told a recent forum of victims' relatives, survivors and rescue workers, organized by Voices of September 11th, a family advocacy group.
 What is that demand?
 A 2002 study for the development corporation and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey forecast attendance at ''about 5.5 million annually in a stabilized year,'' within a range running from three million to eight million visitors.
 A 2003 memorandum to the authority from Economics Research Associates said 5.5 million ''could be considered a safe level of projection'' for a stabilized year, after seven million to nine million visitors in the first two or three years of operation.
 The 2004 environmental impact statement prepared by the development corporation accounted for ''a first-year surge in attendance of up to nine million visitors,'' stabilizing at ''approximately 5.5 million visitors per year.''
 Currently, using figures from Economic Consulting Services, the corporation is projecting a peak demand of up to 6.6 million visitors annually in the first three years of operation, 2009 to 2011, and declining to four million by 2018. (By comparison, the Statue of Liberty received 3,618,053 visits last year.)
 ''All of these projections are preliminary,'' said Stefan Pryor, president of the corporation, noting that the environmental impact figures were deliberately set high to permit the evaluation of conditions beyond what could reasonably be predicted.
 Among the factors that have yet to be studied in detail, he said, were hours of operation, ticketing policies, season of the year and time of day. ''We will work with those variables to ensure that we maximize capacity,'' Mr. Pryor said, including during the peak years.
 Contemplating the difference between forecasts, Monica Iken, the founder of the September's Mission foundation, said, ''Where did those three million people go?'' 
 Ms. Iken, whose husband was killed on Sept. 11, 2001, asked Ms. Papageorge at the forum, ''We wouldn't have, like, a turn-away policy or anything like that?''
 Ms. Papageorge answered, ''We're planning on implementing timed ticketing in the early years so that people will be able to know in advance when their time-ticket slot is.''
 As for the relatives of 9/11 victims, Mr. Pryor added yesterday, ''No matter what the attendance level is on any given day, family members will not be turned away.''
 SOME speakers at the forum criticized the decision to reduce the number of ramps in the memorial.
 In the original plan by Michael Arad, there were to have been four L-shaped ramps, two for entry, two for exiting, around both pool-filled voids on the twin tower footprints, reaching street level at the far corners of the memorial plaza.
 Now, there are to be two switchback ramps that reach street level in the center of the plaza. Entry will be through the north ramp, exiting through the south ramp.
 Ms. Papageorge said Management Resources, consultants in the design process, ''actually suggested that we have a single entry/exit for orientation purposes because they felt that people would be confused if there were multiple entrances and multiple exits.''
 But Mary Fetchet, the founder of Voices of September 11th, told the architects who were at the forum that the memorial should have ''as many entrances and exits as possible'' and said she was worried about ''traffic jams'' in the new configuration.
 So is Ms. Iken, a board member of the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation. ''Going anywhere at ground zero under the current plans -- to the memorial, to the offices or to retail areas -- is going to feel like standing in Times Square on New Year's Eve,'' she said.
 And the estimates of those crowds can vary by the millions.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of an earlier version of the design, in which the gallery in the pool-filled void in each tower footprint was to be served by two foot ramps. Here the ramps lead up to the left and come down on the right. (Photo by Lower Manhattan Development Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (78%); POULTRY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TERRORISM (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); PORT AUTHORITIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (61%) Terrorism; Monuments and Memorials; World Trade Center (NYC); Architecture; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



511 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Signs a Deal to Expand Educational Opportunities for Mexican-Americans 

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Mexicans and Mexican-Americans account for fewer than 2,000 of the 200,000 undergraduates at the City University of New York. But they are one of the fastest-growing ethnic groups in New York. Yesterday, CUNY's chancellor signed an agreement with Mexico's consul general in New York to try to expand educational opportunities for this group.
 The agreement calls for a scholarship program; radio, television and other advertising; contacts with high schools where large numbers of students of Mexican ancestry are enrolled; a training program for community leaders, run with the American Jewish Committee; and a bilingual Web site put together by the university and the consulate.
 ''Education is the key to economic, social and political advancement for any immigrant community,'' Arturo Sarukhan, the consul general, said in an interview. ''We're trying to use a wide-barreled shotgun to address a number of issues at the same time.'' 
 Hispanic students nationwide have high dropout rates and low rates of college graduation, and students of Mexican descent have an especially poor track record. In New York, recent immigrants from Mexico over 24 have the highest rate of not completing high school (65 percent) and the lowest rate of college graduation (5 percent), according to a recent report by the population division of the New York City Planning Department.
 City University, which has traditionally served as a pathway for immigrants, has tried to reach out to Hispanics in recent years. Hispanic students now make up about 26 percent of the university's undergraduates, including 18,000 of Dominican ancestry and more than 12,000 of Puerto Rican descent. 
 The group from Mexico is far smaller but growing. ''This is an emerging ethnic group that has been totally underserved educationally,'' CUNY's chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, said yesterday. ''To the degree that this university can open its arms and hearts and wisdom to these people, it will give them an opportunity to improve their lives.''
 To reach more Dominican immigrants this year, the university created a satellite site in Washington Heights, with nondegree programs and credit-bearing college courses. About 650 students are taking college courses there now.
 The university also plans to open an admissions and counseling center on West 181st Street. And next month, CUNY-TV will start ''Nueva York,'' a Spanish-language program (with English captions) about the Hispanic communities of New York.
 But Jay Hershenson, a university vice chancellor, said that because of the fast growth of the Mexican community and its enormous educational needs, it made sense to single out the group specifically.
 Other states, like California and Texas, have much larger Mexican immigrant populations, but until recently, they were a small presence in New York. The City Planning report, ''The Newest New Yorkers 2000,'' said that Mexicans were now the fifth-largest immigrant group in New York, up from 17th in 1990. And their growth is expected to continue.
 Some CUNY colleges are also paying more attention to Mexican immigrant issues. Lehman College in the Bronx, where nearly half the students are Hispanic, recently hired an expert in Mexican-American literature, and Ricardo R. Fernandez, Lehman's president, said he hoped to recruit other experts in Mexican-American topics.
 Mr. Sarukhan said that access to education was a ''huge challenge'' for his community and especially for illegal immigrants. He said that primary and secondary education were also crucial, but that with limited resources, it made sense to start with higher education.
 The scholarship program, which he said would start next fall, will be financed by the Mexican government, which will create similar programs in other American cities. The details are not yet set. But Mr. Sarukhan said he expected 50 to 80 scholarships, each worth at least $1,000 a year. 
 He said that he was working with City University because it had demonstrated an understanding of the problems of Mexican students.
 ''CUNY is the only institution in New York that said, 'We want to do this,''' he said. ''The doors have not opened at other education institutions the way they have at CUNY. If they did, that would be stupendous.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Arturo Sarukhan, left, Mexico's consul general in New York, discussing education with Ricardo R. Fernandez, president of Lehman College. (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CITIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); REFUGEES (69%) Colleges and Universities; Mexican-Americans; Scholarships and Fellowships; Hispanic-Americans; Dropouts; Education and Schools; Immigration and Refugees; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN JEWISH COMMITTEE (57%) City University of New York

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Mexico; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



512 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Ford Plans to Build a Lot More Hybrids

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Sept. 21 

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company plans to increase production of hybrid electric vehicles tenfold, to 250,000 vehicles annually, by the end of the decade, executives said Wednesday. 
 By 2010, the company said that more than half of its Ford, Lincoln and Mercury models would offer the technology as an option, accounting for roughly 8 percent of the three brands' current sales.
Ford said that it would also increase the number of models that can run on ethanol, a corn-based fuel, and also took a small but unusual step, for an automaker, to counteract global warming. 
 Ford and other automakers are challenging in court a much more ambitious effort in California to cut car and truck emissions of gases linked to global warming. William Clay Ford Jr., Ford's chairman and chief executive, has long been outspoken on environmental issues but has also been constrained by his company's financial distress. At a news conference Wednesday, he said an environmental strategy would be part of a two-pronged approach to restoring Ford's North American profitability. 
 Both Ford and General Motors are losing billions of dollars at home, though Ford remains profitable globally. While Mr. Ford is developing a traditional turnaround strategy that will include job and cost cuts, he said his company had to be known for more than that. 
 ''Our road to recovery will really be built on two things,'' Mr. Ford said. ''One will be a cost-cutting, capacity action, which you would consider hard-nosed business decisions. But that also is not enough. Today was about what's going to take us in the future, what's going to differentiate us from other companies and what are we going to be known for.''
 ''You have to stand for something and be a leader in something,'' he added. 
 Mr. Ford has established his company as the first automaker to offer a hybrid lineup that is comparable to those offered by Toyota and Honda -- Toyota has said that it plans to expand sales of hybrids to a quarter of the vehicles it sells in America by 2010. At the same time, though, Mr. Ford is embarking on his second turnaround plan in four years as chief executive of the company founded by his great-grandfather. 
 The pressure on the Detroit automakers was felt in a different way on Wednesday by Ford's crosstown rival, G.M. Kirk Kerkorian, the billionaire financier and corporate raider, said in a securities filing that he might seek representation on G.M.'s board and would increase his stake in the company to 9.9 percent, from 9.5 percent. Previously, aides to Mr. Kerkorian, who was once Chrysler's largest shareholder and tried to take over the company, have said he was not interested in taking an active role at G.M. 
 ''We were advised that Tracinda would be making this filing,'' said Toni Simonetti, a spokeswoman for G.M., referring to Mr. Kerkorian's private investment company. ''We really do not have any comment on it.''
 A spokeswoman for Tracinda had no comment. 
 Ford, G.M. and other automakers are scrambling to establish their environmental credentials as volatile gas prices have unnerved American consumers. Mitsubishi, the struggling Japanese automaker, said Wednesday that it would offer free gas for a year to customers who bought its remaining 2005 models.
 On Tuesday, G.M. said it would emphasize a range of fuel economy initiatives as it markets its new generation of large sport utility vehicles, a segment that has borne the brunt of consumer discontent. G.M. also said it would begin to highlight the fact that many of its vehicles can run on an ethanol blend, a capability that environmentalists have seen more as taking advantage of a regulatory loophole than a benefit. Building vehicles that can run on ethanol as well as gasoline wins automakers credits that can allow them to build more vehicles with poor fuel economy. There are also fewer than 500 gas stations nationwide that offer E85, the ethanol blend the vehicles can use. 
 ''It's just one in a basket of responses that we're pushing to try and help solve some of these big issues that are out there,'' Mr. Ford said Wednesday. ''We're certainly not putting all our chips on ethanol, but there is a big provision for it in the energy bill and there is a commitment in this country to ethanol and we'd be irresponsible if we didn't respond to it.''
 The company said it would offer 280,000 flex-fuel vehicles that run on gas or ethanol next year, including, for the first time, a version of its Ford F-150 pickup truck. ''With fewer than 400 ethanol stations in the entire country, it will be important for them to follow through on plans to promote ethanol sales,'' said Jason Mark, a spokesman for the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group. ''Otherwise, their increased flexible-fuel vehicle sales will actually exacerbate our oil dependence.''
 Still, he said that the hybrid announcement was welcome.
 ''The days of cheap gas are likely behind us, so the company's investments in fuel-sipping technologies is wise planning,'' he said. 
 As part of Ford's new environmental strategy, the company said it would buy credits on an exchange to offset greenhouse gases emitted during the manufacture of its new hybrids. While the emissions from manufacturing are considerably less than those the vehicles emit on the road, it is an unusual program for an automaker. One Ford executive said Wednesday that the program could cost about $10 to $20 per vehicle.


GRAPHIC: Photo: William Clay Ford Jr., Ford Motor's chairman and chief executive, discussed the distressed automaker's future yesterday with employees. (Photo by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (59%) Automobiles; Hybrid Vehicles; Production; Ethanol; Sales; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Fuel Efficiency ; Consumer Behavior; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (58%) William Clay Jr Ford; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



513 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: A Lion of the Courtroom Hears His Critics Roar

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
David Boies is a star in the courtroom, but his back-office operations are causing some headaches.
Mr. Boies, who has presented himself as a white knight to troubled companies, has faced criticism in recent weeks over previously undisclosed ties to a document management firm that is partly owned by members of his family.
 Lawyers in some cases have assailed that relationship, contending that Mr. Boies's firm faces a conflict of interest when recommending the document management company, Amici, to a client without disclosing the family's financial interest.
 Some lawyers further argue that Mr. Boies has used Amici to put opponents at a disadvantage while enriching his family. 
 And since Mr. Boies's acknowledgment of that tie, lawyers in other cases have mounted attacks on other aspects of his conduct. Lawyers for L. Dennis Kozlowski and Mark H. Swartz, former top executives at Tyco International who now face years of prison time, have accused Mr. Boies, Tyco's lawyer, of engaging in ''rank gamesmanship to the defendants' disadvantage'' by withholding a million potentially subpoenaed documents from the defense until the trial of the two men was nearly over, and millions more until after their conviction. 
 Mr. Boies, in an interview yesterday, said one set of issues was worthy of concern -- the concerns about the ties to Amici -- but dismissed the rest as overzealous advocacy.
 ''There is a disclosure issue here,'' Mr. Boies said. ''That's a real issue, that's an issue that's worth talking about. But what's happening is a lot of desperate people who are in real trouble are trying to use it as a hook.''
 This summer, the law firm of Boies, Schiller & Flexner, on behalf of Tyco, released 50 million documents, according to a filing in a New York state appeals court made by lawyers for Mr. Kozlowski and Mr. Swartz late Tuesday. The documents, which could be obtained only from Amici or from Tyco directly, were produced in response to a deadline set in civil court in a lawsuit brought by shareholders against Tyco. 
 Tyco contends that all the documents requested by lawyers for Mr. Kozlowski and Mr. Swartz -- about two million -- were provided.
 It is not unusual in lawsuits involving vast quantities of documents -- and lawyers say that the Tyco case involves more documents than some of the biggest corporate suits filed to date -- for lawyers to employ a management company that serves as a repository. The management company, in turn, may charge a fee for access to the documents, and those fees in big cases can add up to millions of dollars. 
 Lawyers representing Deloitte & Touche, the former auditor at Adelphia Communications, which had an accounting scandal and is another Boies, Schiller client, have asserted that Amici provided thousands of useless documents -- including copies of telephone books and cookbooks -- and bilked them for the service. 
 ''Using Amici has been a disaster,'' Max R. Shulman, a lawyer at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, wrote to the presiding judge on Deloitte's behalf this month. He added, ''We now find that persons affiliated with Boies Schiller have a substantial ownership interest in Amici -- which leads us to the natural question of whether Boies Schiller would have any incentive to correct the problems.''
 According to court documents, members of Mr. Boies's family have an ''indirect economic interest in Amici'' through a company called Legal and Scientific Systems, which owns 50 percent of a company that in turn has a 51 percent interest in Amici.
 For Mr. Boies, 64, criticism of the connection is, at least in part, an inevitable fallout from his own prominence. In recent years, he has built a reputation as one of the nation's premier trial lawyers and as one of its most trusted corporate advisers on matters of ethics. (He also represented Al Gore during the Florida recount in 2000 and the government in the antitrust case against Microsoft.)
 ''Most of this stuff would not be particularly newsworthy if it were another law firm,'' Mr. Boies said. But in light of his frequent role as corporate governance guru, he said, ''it makes it legitimate to focus on the anomaly of someone who has been very active speaking on ethical issues being confronted on this issue.''
 How serious an issue is not clear, said Ronald C. Minkoff, a partner at Frankfurt Kurnit Klein & Selz in New York. ''Our ethics rules don't really deal with nepotism,'' he said. ''It affects the representation if it turns out that the referral is to someone who's not competent or who's more expensive than it needs to be.''
 And playing games with the production of documents in big lawsuits is nothing new, Mr. Minkoff said. ''Lawyers producing way more documents than are absolutely necessary, in order to force the other side to spend lots of time going through them, sad to say, is not an uncommon tactic. I see it all the time.''
 In his letter criticizing Boies, Schiller as well as Amici, Mr. Shulman, the lawyer for Deloitte, also wrote that ''we have reason to believe that members of the Boies family also have an ownership interest in Urbach Kahn & Werlin,'' an accounting firm retained to advise a special committee of Adelphia's board. 
 There was a connection to the accounting firm, Mr. Boies said, but it was a tenuous one. His son, David Boies III, ran a company that invested alongside Urbach Kahn & Werlin in a third company that also did business with Boies, Schiller. The investment relationship ended in mid-2001, according to Mr. Boies. 
 Still, some lawyers who have faced him or others at his firm say that Mr. Boies's firm plays a special brand of hardball. ''They have been getting away with a lot of this stuff,'' said Aaron Richard Golub, who defended a modeling agency against a suit filed by models who were represented by Boies, Schiller. ''They just pay the fine, that's all.''
 In May, in approving a settlement of the class-action lawsuit by the models, who contended that several model agencies colluded to fix prices, the federal judge in the case reduced legal fees to $3.8 million from the roughly $9 million requested, in part out of concern over the conduct of plaintiff lawyers during the case's evidence-gathering phase. 
 Mr. Boies said that while mistakes were made in that case, events there had nothing to do with those in other cases, including the more recent disputes with lawyers for Deloitte and lawyers for Mr. Kozlowski and Mr. Swartz. 
 ''The magistrate decided in favor of the plaintiffs and that was affirmed by the district judge,'' Mr. Boies said, ''and the district judge held that we should've produced more documents faster.''
 But according to an order by Magistrate Judge Henry B. Pitman, lawyers for the plaintiffs did not just move too slowly. They did not comply with court orders instructing them to answer written questions posed by the defendants' legal team, and Judge Pitman imposed a $25,000 penalty on them. In an order issued in June, he summarized the reasons: ''Plaintiffs, by their counsel, repeatedly failed to comply with order directing that interrogatories be answered, provided contradictory sets of interrogatory answers with no explanation and provided interrogatory answers that were unquestionably designed to obfuscate rather than illuminate, notwithstanding an earlier order directing the interrogatories be answered.''
 Boies, Schiller is appealing.


GRAPHIC: Photo: David Boies taking a call outside a Manhattan court earlier this year. (Photo by John-Marshall Mantel/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); SUBPOENAS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ACCOUNTING (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (67%); APPEALS (65%); SCANDALS (64%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (63%); APPEALS COURTS (62%); PERSONAL FINANCE (55%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (80%); BOIES SCHILLER & FLEXNER LLP (73%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (56%); TIME WARNER INC (50%)

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (56%); TWX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (80%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (80%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (73%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (73%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (56%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2006



514 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Discloses Moves to Stop Piracy of Intellectual Property 

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Carlos M. Gutierrez, the commerce secretary, announced on Wednesday a series of initiatives aimed at curbing the global trade in pirated and counterfeit goods, a problem that American businesses say is costing them $250 billion a year. 
 As part of the plan, the Commerce Department will send intellectual property experts abroad to monitor cases in the countries where much of the counterfeiting and piracy appears to be centered, including Brazil, China, India and Russia.
The department will also start an educational program offering two-day seminars for American small businesses on how to protect their intellectual property rights. The agency has also established a training program for foreign officials. 
 ''The protection of intellectual property is vital to our economic growth and global competitiveness and it has major consequences in our ongoing effort to promote security and stability around the world,'' Mr. Gutierrez said in a statement before announcing the new programs. ''Theft of intellectual property is not tolerated and will not be tolerated.'' 
 Mr. Gutierrez announced his plan to Silicon Valley executives gathered at the headquarters of Applied Materials in Sunnyvale, Calif. Applied Materials is the world's largest producer of equipment for manufacturing semiconductors. Today, Mr. Gutierrez is scheduled to speak about intellectual property protection to movie industry executives in Los Angeles.
 The problem of piracy and intellectual property theft affects a huge variety of industries like movies, video games, semiconductors and manufacturing equipment.
 According to figures from the World Customs Organization and Interpol, the total global trade in counterfeit goods increased in 2004 to more than $600 billion, or nearly 7 percent of all goods sold globally. As much as 90 percent of the music and movies sold in China are illegal copies, according to some industry estimates.
 The Commerce Department's announcements on Wednesday came just three months after President Bush named Chris Israel, formerly chief of staff to Mr. Gutierrez, to a new federal position coordinating intellectual property enforcement. Mr. Israel is charged with carrying out the administration's Strategy Targeting Organized Piracy Initiative, a year-old program to block illegitimate trade.
 Lezlee Westine, executive director of TechNet, a lobbying group representing Silicon Valley companies, said the Commerce Department appeared to be taking the problem of piracy and counterfeiting quite seriously. ''Protecting I.P. rights is extremely important to our industry,'' she said. ''The steps they are taking are very comprehensive.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (95%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (94%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); COUNTERFEITING (91%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); LARCENY & THEFT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); LOBBYING (62%) Counterfeit Merchandise; International Trade and World Market; Counterfeit Merchandise; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); WORLD CUSTOMS ORGANIZATION (82%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (82%) Commerce Department; World Customs Organization; Interpol

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (91%) Carlos M Gutierrez; Laurie Flynn

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BRAZIL (79%) Brazil; China; India; Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



515 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Asia Freight Aided Profit In Quarter, FedEx Says 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The FedEx Corporation, the package shipping company, said yesterday that its first-quarter profit rose and earnings for the full year would be higher than forecast because of growing exports from Asia and an expanding economy. 
 Net income increased 3 percent, to $339 million, or $1.10 a share, compared with $330 million, or $1.08 a share, in the period a year earlier.
Excluding one-time costs, profit rose 16 percent, to $1.25 a share. 
 The quarter included a one-time cost of $79 million, or 15 cents a share, to account for rent escalations at some airport locations that previously were not recognized, the chief financial officer, Alan B. Graf Jr., said. Excluding the cost, FedEx was expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call to earn $1.17 a share. 
 The company raised its estimated range for the fiscal year by 5 cents a share, to $5.25 to $5.50. 
 Sales in the quarter, which ended Aug. 31, rose 10 percent, to $7.71 billion. Total package shipments in the quarter rose 5 percent, while revenue from international air shipments gained 13 percent. FedEx declined to provide specifics on international shipments, saying only that growth was led by Asia. 
 FedEx used surcharges to help protect against a 50 percent increase in jet fuel prices in the quarter. Hurricane Katrina, which hit the Gulf Coast on Aug. 29, had a limited effect on the company's operations in the quarter. 
 Global economic expansion this year and next will continue to fuel shipping growth, FedEx's chief executive, Frederick W. Smith, said on a conference call. China's exports in the first half of 2005 grew 33 percent on increased shipments of cellular phones, electronics, textiles and toys.
 Katrina damaged a ''limited number'' of FedEx facilities and some equipment in the Gulf Coast region, Mr. Graf said. FedEx facilities in the affected area are operating, with the exception of some parts of New Orleans, which was flooded by the storm. 
 Shares of FedEx, which is based in Memphis, rose $6.15, or 8 percent, to $83.15.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SHIPMENTS (89%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HURRICANES (65%); JET FUEL (65%); FUEL MARKETS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (94%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (94%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (94%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (94%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



516 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: In an Oil Squeeze, Attention to the Alternatives 

BYLINE: By KENNETH J. STIER

 BODY:
The steady climb in oil prices, followed by Hurricane Katrina's disruption of the petroleum markets, has forced a 1970's mood of sobriety on American consumers. With gasoline at the pump hovering around $2.80 a gallon in much of the country, energy conservation is back in vogue, and the small businesses that dominate the renewable-energy industry are on a bit of a roll. 
 They are getting a nudge -- that is the most that can be said of it -- from the energy bill that President Bush signed in August and that many of them criticize as deeply flawed. They will take what they can get from it, though, they say.
But the bigger boost to their businesses comes from market forces. When the price of fossil fuels hits the stratosphere, the purveyors of solar power, wind power, biomass and biofuels suddenly find themselves very much in demand. 
 Just listen to Steven J. Walker, founder and president of New England Wood Pellet Inc. in Jaffrey, N.H. His company's wood pellets -- small plugs of compressed sawdust and wood shavings left over by lumber mills -- are used to heat more than 600,000 homes. The pellets are burned in highly efficient stoves, furnaces and boilers at half the cost of oil or natural gas.
 ''We're refusing 90 percent of the orders coming in,'' Mr. Walker, 38, said. Last year, he said, he supplied fuel for 20,000 homes, most of them in New England but some in New York and Pennsylvania.
 ''It's a little bit scary,'' he said. ''We are bumping up our production by 50 percent this year.'' 
 The 13-year-old company's revenue has climbed 40 percent a year during the last five years, to a projected $10 million this year, he says, and the enterprise is highly profitable. Mr. Walker expects his work force to grow to 50 from the current 30 within two years.
 It is just as well, Mr. Walker says, that the new energy bill did not deliver a 25 percent rebate on the purchase of pellet-burning stoves or boilers that his congressman, Charles F. Bass, a Republican, lobbied for at his urging. If it had, he says, he would be even more overwhelmed. 
 The bill, widely derided by environmentalists for what they see as generous subsidies to the fossil fuel industry, does provide an array of tax and production credits that go to either the consumers of renewable energy or to the estimated 20,000 companies, most of them small businesses, that harness renewable energy sources. But critics say the benefits are relatively paltry, often poorly thought out and, worst of all, in effect for only two years. 
 ''The energy bill tweaks everything but changes nothing,'' said Michael T. Eckhart, president of the American Council for Renewable Energy.
 Yes, some companies will benefit, he concedes, but not enough for renewable energy's share of the market to grow, a goal that is being aggressively pursued in Europe and much of Asia. In the United States, nonhydro renewable sources like wind power and solar and geothermal energy, account for just 2 percent of power output.
 In contrast to Washington's tepid promotion of alternative energy, however, many states have embraced it, creating huge new opportunities for some companies.
 Among the leading states is New Jersey, which in 2004 enacted legislation that offers homeowners and businesses sizable incentives that substantially reduce the initial cost of installing renewable energy systems.
 Combined with the new federal tax credits (up to $2,000 for a residence), a $27,000 three-kilowatt solar electric system able to power an average-size house would cost New Jersey residents just $10,000. (New York and Vermont have similar incentives that would knock the price down to $15,000 and $19,000, respectively.)
 Similarly, a New Jersey business that installed a $500,000, 70-kilowatt system could reduce the actual price to $90,000 by taking advantage of both the state rebates and the federal commercial tax credit, which was raised in the new energy bill to 30 percent, from 10 percent. Based on current energy prices, this investment could be recouped within 10 years through energy savings. 
 New Jersey's law has been a windfall for Global Resource Options Inc., an installer and packager of solar-power systems in White River Junction, Vt. Since the law went into effect, orders from New Jersey have soared from nothing to 70 percent of the business. ''There has never been a better time to go solar,'' said Jeff Wolfe, the co-founder with his wife, Dori, of Global Resource Options, which is active from Maine to North Carolina.
 Largely as a result of New Jersey's incentives, Mr. Wolfe said, revenue should more than double this year to more than $10 million from less than $5 million.
 Perhaps the federal energy bill's biggest beneficiaries in the renewable-power industry are the small farmers and farm cooperatives in the Midwest involved in the production of ethanol, an automotive fuel derived from corn that is blended with gasoline to form gasohol.
 The new law requires the gradual blending of renewable fuels like ethanol and biodiesel into the nation's fuel supply. The ethanol requirement begins at 4 billion gallons in 2006 (up from 3.5 billion today) and goes up to 7.5 billion gallons in 2012, when the ethanol incentives are set to expire. The guaranteed market is already spurring new production. 
 After a $52 million expansion of its first ethanol plant, to raise its capacity to 90 million gallons a year from 45 million gallons, the Midwest Grain Processors cooperative, made up of nearly 1,400 farmers in 14 states, is investing $85 million for a second plant, with a capacity of 57 million gallons. That would bring the cooperative midway to its target of a capacity of 300 million gallons by 2008. 
 ''We see a lot of New York money trying to get invested; we farmers are just trying to hold on to a piece of it,'' said its president, David Nelson of Belmond, Iowa, in a cellphone interview from his 18-wheeler that he was driving to an ethanol plant with a load of corn. ''Ethanol is not the silver bullet, but it has been tremendously good for rural communities, helping people to stay on the land.'' 
 For producers of wind power, the two-year limit on a combination of tax credits and accelerated depreciation that can reduce a project's cost by half or more has created a ''land rush'' mentality, according to John Calaway, chief executive of Superior Renewable Energy, a Houston wind-power developer. 
 The feast-or-famine diet is highly disruptive to a growing industry, critics says, especially by stunting its manufacturing base. Little wonder that wind-related manufacturing in the United States is dominated by foreign companies (the same is true of solar power). The industry now imports some of its towers from Vietnam, and the lack of domestic competition, along with the worldwide boom in wind power, is keeping prices high. 
 Moreover, critics say, the new bill shortchanges small producers, feeding the trend toward domination of the industry by a few big companies and away from Europe's decentralized model. Even so, with some 2,500 megawatts of wind power expected to be added in each of the next couple of years, on top of 6,740 megawatts of current capacity, smaller players are finding niches. 
 Community Energy Inc., a nonprofit company in Wayne, Pa., for example, has marketed about 85 percent of new 250 megawatts of wind power that has come online in Pennsylvania and West Virginia since 1999, according to its president, Brent Alderfer.
 In what is, in effect, a partnership with utility companies, Community Energy has been able to recruit large numbers of customers willing to pay a modest premium for what it heralds as high-quality and environmentally friendly electricity. 
 Mr. Alderfer projects company revenue of $10.5 million this year, up from $8 million last year, and he expects to buy equity in new wind projects.
 ''We are asking people to step up and make a choice,'' Mr. Alderfer said. ''It's not so much that it's a tough sell, it's just a new element that is not in most people's economic thinking.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven J. Walker, the founder of New England Wood Pellet in New Hampshire, supplies the fuel for pellet-burning furnaces and boilers in homes. His sales have increased 40 percent a year for the last five years.
 Pellets are formed by compressing sawdust and wood shavings. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BIOMASS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); BIOFUELS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); SAW MILLS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX RELIEF (65%); TAX LAW (63%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); SALES REBATES (58%) Energy and Power; Small Business; Gas (Fuel); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Bush, George W (Pres); Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Fuel Efficiency; Law and Legislation; Energy and Power

ORGANIZATION: New England Wood Pellet; Global Resource Options Inc

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHARLES BASS (50%) Ken Stier

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



517 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Bush Compares Responses To Hurricane and Terrorism

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21 

 BODY:
President Bush on Wednesday for the first time linked the American response to terrorism and its response to Hurricane Katrina, declaring that the United States is emerging a stronger nation from both challenges, and saying that terrorists look at the storm's devastation ''and wish they had caused it.'' 
 Mr. Bush's speech, at a luncheon for the Republican Jewish Coalition, appeared to be part of a White House strategy to restore the luster of strong leadership that Mr. Bush enjoyed after the Sept. 11 attacks, and that administration officials fear he has lost in the faltering response to the hurricane. 
Mr. Bush himself has never publicly compared his role after the 2001 attacks to his role now in the rebuilding effort on the Gulf Coast or in the preparations for the landfall of Hurricane Rita. But the White House recently described at length how deeply he was involved in calling governors and federal officials to make sure that relief efforts and preparations for Hurricane Rita were carefully coordinated. 
 White House officials have talked about how he has used the secure video system at the White House, which was installed to let him talk to commanders in Afghanistan and Iraq, to speak with federal officials in Louisiana and other states. 
 Until the speech on Wednesday, Mr. Bush had kept the issues of terrorism, Iraq and the hurricane separate. But the public has not: polls show declining approval of Mr. Bush's handling of both Iraq and Hurricane Katrina. By suggesting for the first time that America's enemies were pleased to see the devastation caused by the hurricane, he appeared to be linking the country's natural and human challengers.
 Mr. Bush said he had been ''thinking a lot'' about the comparisons between the response to the attacks in New York and Washington, and the storm devastation. ''We look at the destruction caused by Katrina, and our hearts break,'' he said. Turning the subject to terrorists, he said: ''They're the kind of people who look at Katrina and wish they had caused it. We're in a war against these people.''
 In weaving the themes, Mr. Bush said that just as the United States would not let an act of nature blow the nation off course, it would not let the acts of terrorsts drive it out of Iraq. ''No matter how many car bombs there are, these terrorists cannot stop the march of freedom in Iraq,'' he told the luncheon crowd, which include current and former members of his administration and some of his larger campaign donors. 
 As Mr. Bush spoke in downtown Washington, some of his aides and members of Congress were speculating that the cost of responding to Hurricane Katrina would almost certainly affect the war in Iraq. 
 Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who has been critical of the administration's war policy, emerged Tuesday from a meeting with administration officials saying that the White House had not been specific about how it would offset the costs of the federal storm relief. 
 But inside the administration, a senior diplomat involved in the Iraq effort, who would not allow his name to be used because of the sensitivity of the subject, said that it was hard for him to imagine ''Congress spending more on rebuilding schools in Iraq before they rebuild schools in New Orleans.''
 Mr. Bush affixed no numbers to his Gulf Coast rebuilding plan, saying only, ''We're going to help ensure that the communities emerge stronger and better.'' 
 He reiterated proposals he made last Thursday from New Orleans, including the creation of a Gulf Opportunity Zone. 
 ''Somebody said the other day, well, that's a tax break,'' Mr. Bush said. ''That region is going to have zero income anyway. There's nothing there, in many parts of it. It makes sense to prove economic incentives for jobs to exist.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); TERRORISM (93%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); APPROVALS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



518 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Pilgrim Site Imagines Itself as Shiite World's Vatican City

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: NAJAF, Iraq 

 BODY:
Before Saddam Hussein began jailing and killing senior Shiite holy men in the 1980's, an army of black-clad clerics studied at this city's seminary and thousands of pilgrims arrived daily to pray at the tomb of Imam Ali ibn Abi Talib, one of the holiest figures in Shiite Islam.
 With Shiites now in control of the government, the dusty, crumbling town is hoping to recover its past glory and become a kind of Vatican City of the Shiite world.
''When the security situation is good, the number of pilgrims will increase,'' said Ammar Wahid, a member of Najaf's city council, speaking in late August in a municipal government building bristling with guns.
 He imagines an orderly city of new buildings and freshly paved streets spreading out from the main attraction, the great gold-domed Imam Ali mosque and the surrounding ancient seminary with its religious sages. The mosque holds the mausoleum of Ali, a son-in-law and cousin of the Prophet Muhammad, who is regarded by Shiites as the rightful heir to Muhammad's mantle as leader of the Muslim world. 
 Already, a new police force is patrolling the streets and officials say violent incidents have dwindled to little more than would be expected in a city of 600,000 souls. A truce between American forces and the rebel militia loyal to Moktada al-Sadr has held since fighting ended last year and many buildings destroyed or damaged have been rebuilt or repaired.
 The municipal government has taken the damage from the battles as an opportunity to raze a swath of buildings across from the green, blue and gold mosque, expanding its plaza to accommodate more pilgrims. New hotels are rising around town and the city plans to convert a former military airstrip to a commercial airport using loans from Iran. It plans to build a larger international airport farther out of town.
 The local economy is expanding: thousands of electric cords, running from generators or spliced into city power lines, are draped from utility pole to utility pole like crepe bunting all over town. The demand for fuel has pushed gas prices to double what they are in Baghdad.
 Most of all, the prospect of religious tourism has made many here optimistic about the future. The government signed an agreement with Iraq's Shiite neighbor, Iran, to allow 1,500 Iranian pilgrims to visit the city each day. Security fears and visa problems have so far kept the numbers of visitors from Iran fairly low.
 ''The seminary is much more active than it was, and as it becomes more active, it will become more important,'' said Gaith Shubbar, an editor of a Shiite magazine called Al Ashraf. ''It will regain its old position and surpass it.''
 But to be a kind of Vatican, Najaf needs a figurehead akin to a pope, or at least a critical mass of respected top clerics to add theological weight.
 Mr. Hussein's campaign of terror chased many of the town's clerics into exile, including Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who spent 12 years here mustering his power before leading the Islamic revolution in Iran. Najaf became a backwater while the center of Shiism shifted to the Iranian city of Qum.
 It will take decades before Najaf's seminary recovers the depth now found in Qum, where there are dozens of ayatollahs, many of whom fled to Iran from Najaf years ago. Najaf's seminary -- actually a collection of small institutes and libraries scattered around the old city -- has just five grand ayatollahs, the highest level of Shiite learning, compared with more than a dozen in Qum.
 ''To produce marjas, we need time,'' Mr. Shubbar said, referring to the most senior Shiite clerics who act as leaders of the faith. He explained that seminary students at each level study with more senior clergy while teaching those more junior to them, but that the seminary is missing a crucial generation -- people who have studied for 30 to 40 years.
 ''We have an old generation and a young generation, but there is a gap,'' Mr. Shubbar said, sitting in his office near the Imam Ali mosque in a black turban, black robe and white socks. ''In 10 or 15 years, there will be students competent enough to teach.''
 The number of seminary students has more than doubled in the last two years, but is still less than 5,000.
 ''It was expected after the fall of the regime that the seminary would flourish and be filled with students,'' said Sheik Sattar al-Baghdadi, both a seminary student and teacher. ''But because of the situation in Iraq, people stay away.''
 He said Iran's seminary enjoys too great an advantage for Najaf to catch up anytime soon.
 ''The seminary of Qum lives under the shade of an Islamic state,'' Mr. Baghdadi said. ''The seminary of Najaf has lived through difficult times, killings, arrests -- and even after the fall of the regime these things are still a threat.''
 As a result, few pilgrims yet visit the city, which is still littered with concertina wire and concrete blast walls from last year's fighting. On the day celebrating the Imam Ali's birth in August, the mosque was only slightly more crowded than on an average Friday, the day of prayer.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A picture on Thursday showing fighting in August 2004 around the Imam Ali mosque in Najaf, Iraq, carried an erroneous credit. It was by Tyler Hicks of The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Imam Ali mosque at Najaf in 2004, when fighting damaged many buildings. The town hopes to be once again a pilgrimage site for Shiites. (Photo by Qassem Zein/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); ARMIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CITIES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); AIRPORTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%) Islam; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Pilgrimages

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) Craig S Smith; Ali (Imam) (D661)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); HOLY SEE (90%) Najaf (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



519 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1837 words

HEADLINE: GULF HURRICANE OF TOP STRENGTH MENACES TEXAS 

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Reporting for this article was contributed by Ralph Blumenthal and Maureen Balleza in Houston, Thayer Evans in Galveston, William Yardley in New Orleans, Andrew C. Revkin in New York, Eric Schmitt in Washington, and Terry Aguayo in Miami.

DATELINE: GALVESTON, Tex., Sept. 21 

 BODY:
Hurricane Rita attained the strongest storm designation on Wednesday as it barreled toward the Texas coastline, forcing the evacuation of as many as a million people from this island city and other Gulf Coast communities along an arc from Corpus Christi to New Orleans. 
 Heeding the lessons of Hurricane Katrina, the authorities in Galveston ordered all residents to leave the city immediately and tried to evacuate the city's hospitals and nursing homes with buses, ambulances and helicopters. Businesses and public buildings covered windows with plywood, and the Strand, the central business district, was virtually empty by Wednesday afternoon.
 ''Coastal Texans should not wait until late Thursday or early Friday to leave,'' Gov. Rick Perry said. ''Homes and businesses can be rebuilt. Lives cannot.'' 
 Over little more than 24 hours, Hurricane Rita strengthened into a Category 5 storm as it cleared the Florida Keys and passed over the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico. The National Hurricane Center said Hurricane Rita had winds near 175 miles per hour, putting it at the highest measurable level. 
 Hurricane Katrina had briefly reached Category 5 strength as it approached the Gulf Coast, but it weakened a notch before slamming into Louisiana and Mississippi on Aug. 29. The death toll from that storm passed the 1,000 mark on Wednesday. [Page A28.]
 Forecasters say Hurricane Rita will pass over cooler waters on Thursday and Friday, potentially weakening it to a Category 4 storm before it makes landfall, which is predicted early Saturday north of Matagorda Bay. Winds of 130 m.p.h. in parts of Texas should be expected, said Bob Rose, a meteorologist with the Lower Colorado River Authority in Texas. 
 ''This is going to be one very nasty, mean hurricane when it strikes land,'' Mr. Rose said. 
 The approaching storm provoked fear in Houston and along a broad swath of the Texas coast, where a nuclear plant and huge petrochemical refineries pose special hazards. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission announced that operators of the nuclear plant the South Texas Project in Bay City, a few miles from Matagorda Bay, were working to shut down both of its reactors.
 Officials of the state's environmental agency, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, said Wednesday that they were receiving numerous reports from plant operators along the length of the coast that they were shutting down their industrial processes or minimizing operations as a precaution.
 ''In the wake of Katrina, people are being more vigilant and more conservative in their approach,'' especially in light of that hurricane's economic and environmental impacts resulting from damage at similar facilities in Louisiana, said David Bower, the assistant director for field operations of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
 Mr. Bower described the shutdowns and other actions as ''absolutely comprehensive'' at locations along the Texas coast.
 The possibility of the storm hitting anywhere on the Texas coastline drove oil prices higher on concern that the storm might shut down refineries or tear apart pipelines. Companies evacuated workers from at least three refineries around Houston, which has the nation's highest concentration of refining capacity. Oil prices climbed 60 cents, or 1 percent, to $66.80 a barrel. 
 In Washington, where President Bush declared a state of emergency in Texas and Louisiana, officials tried to show that they were prepared for Hurricane Rita after the government's missteps in responding to Hurricane Katrina. 
 ''I urge the citizens to listen carefully to the instructions provided by state and local authorities and follow them,'' President Bush said in a speech Wednesday to the Republican Jewish Coalition. ''We hope and pray that Hurricane Rita will not be a devastating storm, but we got to be ready for the worst.'' 
 Many of the 13,000 active-duty troops in Louisiana, Mississippi and off the Gulf Coast, including marines and elements of the 82nd Airborne Division, were on standby Wednesday, to deploy to Texas if state officials there requested federal military assistance in the aftermath of Hurricane Rita, officials at the Pentagon said. 
 Ten Navy ships, including the hospital ship Comfort, have moved to the northeastern part of the gulf to avoid the storm, but would be ready to steam in quickly behind the hurricane to offer relief. Twenty helicopters at Fort Hood, Tex., have also been placed on standby in case they are needed for search and rescue, transport or Medivac missions in support of FEMA, said Michael Kucharek, a spokesman for the Northern Command. 
 About 25,000 members of the National Guard are on duty in Louisiana and 10,500 in Mississippi. According to the National Guard Bureau, nearly 2,000 National Guards troops are on state-active duty preparing for Hurricane Rita, and Governor Perry has authorized the activation of up to 5,000 of the more than 10,000 National Guard troops currently available in the state. The Air National Guard has also moved several of its aircraft to Austin from Houston as a precaution.
 The American Red Cross was moving supplies and equipment into staging areas in Dallas and San Antonio and opening shelters according to Texas's disaster preparedness plans. Its Disaster Operations Center in Washington was a beehive of activity, as its staff and volunteers mustered supplies, vehicles and other necessities.
 In Florida, Hurricane Rita caused no major structural damage in Key West, but some flooding was reported. About 7,000 customers in the Florida Keys lost power and crews were working to restore it by the end of the day Wednesday. Residents who evacuated Key West were being allowed back Wednesday, while tourists were scheduled to return Friday.
 Meanwhile in New Orleans, Mayor C. Ray Nagin had a mandatory evacuation order in effect Wednesday for the most of the city, including the French Quarter, the central business district and Uptown. But on Wednesday, the city remained filled with contractors, cleaners and military personnel driving down streets without working traffic lights.
 The mayor said Tuesday that as many as 500 buses were ready to evacuate the few thousand citizens who may remain. About two dozen people who were evacuating because of Hurricane Rita arrived Wednesday at the Ernest N. Morial Convention Center, where tens of thousands of people were stranded for days after Hurricane Katrina. 
 On Wednesday, each person was welcomed by six military troops who offered water and ready-to-eat meals. Then they were checked for weapons, asked whether they needed medical assistance and put on a bus, idling with air-conditioning and television until it was full enough to depart, either to Baton Rouge or elsewhere. Several people said they were evacuating for a second time, some after returning to find their homes damaged and without power.
 Still, after days of worry that Hurricane Rita would strike New Orleans, there was some sense of relief that it was heading west, reducing the potential damage to the city. 
 ''We're watching Rita,'' said Sally Forman, a spokeswoman for the mayor. ''We don't have a huge population in our city, but I think that the mandatory evacuation is working.''
 While New Orleans braced for the possibility more disruption, communities in Texas were also on edge Wednesday. South of Galveston in Matagorda County, Sheriff James Mitchell said that his office would not respond to calls in evacuated areas and that parents would be subject to criminal charges for endangerment of a child if they did not remove their children from the path of the storm. 
 Longtime residents in Houston remembered the ravages of the last hurricane to strike the city, Hurricane Alicia, in August 1983. Although barely a Category 3 storm, it was responsible for six deaths and devastated the downtown skyline with 80 m.p.h. winds, shattering hundreds of windows and leaving the streets ankle-deep in glass. 
 Throughout Wednesday, emergency measures were widely and hurriedly put into effect in Houston and along the coast. Schools, colleges, museums and other public institutions announced shutdowns starting Thursday. Prison inmates, hospital patients, nursing home residents and other vulnerable populations were evacuated from low-lying areas, and stores were stripped of bottled water, batteries and other emergency supplies. Long lines formed at banks, some of which restricted withdrawals to $500 at a time.
 Galveston was perhaps more nervous than any other city, having just marked the 105th anniversary of the great storm of 1900, which killed more than 6,000 residents and remains the deadliest natural disaster in the nation's history. Although Galveston largely rebuilt itself and raised the elevation of parts of the island, the storm contributed to the city's decline from a bustling center for shipping and finance to a somewhat sleepy tourist destination. 
 ''This one could be bigger than 1900, which was just a Category 3,'' said Tom Weaver, 60, as workers boarded windows of his business, Scratch and Dent Furniture. ''If it hits us, mark my words, there will be looting. There's two types of people in this world, those that work and those that steal from those that work.'' 
 Most of Galveston was eerily empty by early Wednesday evening, with even a team of nine officials from the Federal Emergency Management Administration leaving the city. The FEMA officials, who had been assisting evacuees from Louisiana, said they had been ordered by their managers to leave Galveston.
 At the University of Texas Medical Branch, a complex consisting of six hospitals, 320 of its 370 patients had been evacuated by early Wednesday evening, Marsha Canright, a spokeswoman, said. The state corrections department Wednesday also evacuated another 70 inmates from the medical center's prison hospital, Ms. Canright said. She said it was the first time in the hospital's 114-year history that it had been evacuated. 
 In a span of four hours Wednesday morning, the 175 residents of Edgewater Retirement Community, which sits along the city's seawall, were evacuated on chartered buses and ambulances, said Barbara Williams, the residence's assistant administrator.
 ''This is not something that is a reactionary thing to Katrina,'' Ms. Williams said. ''We just simply have always had a plan for evacuation for a hurricane.''
 Some people in Galveston said they had no idea when they might be able to return to the city, which has 60,000 residents. Saul Aucancela, the owner of a market selling products from Mexico, said he was planning to drive to Reynosa, a border city in northern Mexico some eight hours to the south, to escape the storm. 
 ''I'm placing my fate in God's hands,'' Mr. Aucancela, 55, said in Spanish as he finished nailing plywood on the wall of his store to protect his windows. His 18 employees had already left Galveston for refuge inland. ''I want to go to a place that isn't too expensive if I have to stay there a while,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of the Edgewater Retirement Community, waiting to board buses, were among thousands of people evacuating Galveston yesterday. (Photo by Tim Johnson/Reuters)
A satellite photo of Hurricane Rita, now a Category 5 storm. (Photo by NOAA, via Getty Images)(pg. A1)
On a beach in Galveston, a Texas A&M graduate student held a pole yesterday that measured 17 feet, the height of the sea wall there. (Photo by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)
 The Galveston schools' buses were used to evacuate residents. (Photo by James Nielsen/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A26)Chart/Map: ''Hurricane Rita''At 11 p.m. Wednesday, Hurricane Rita had maximum sustained winds of 175 m.p.h. and was traveling at 9 m.p.h.Map of The Gulf of Mexico highlighting the potential three-day track area of Hurricane Rita. (pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (95%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); POWER PLANTS (85%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (85%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (85%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (84%); METEOROLOGY (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); RIVERS (68%); ENERGY REGULATION (62%); PETROCHEMICALS (61%); HELICOPTERS (56%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: RICK PERRY (73%) Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (96%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (99%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Galveston (Tex); Texas; Matagorda Bay (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



520 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Voters' Remorse On Bush

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Maybe, just maybe, the public is beginning to see through the toxic fog of fantasy, propaganda and deliberate misrepresentation that has been such a hallmark of the George W. Bush administration, which is in danger of being judged by history as one of the worst of all time.
 Mr. Bush's approval ratings have tanked as increasing numbers of Americans worry that their president, who seems to like nothing better than running off to his ranch to clear brush and ride his bike, may not be up to the job.
The most recent New York Times/CBS News Poll strongly indicated that the public -- tired of the war-without-end in Iraq and dismayed by the federal response to the catastrophe in New Orleans -- ''has growing doubts about [the president's] capacity to deal with pressing problems.'' 
 A USA Today/CNN/Gallup Poll found for the first time that a majority of Americans do not see Mr. Bush as a strong and decisive leader. In an article in USA Today, Carroll Doherty of the nonpartisan Pew Research Center said of Mr. Bush: ''He's lost ground among independents. He seems to be starting to lose ground among his own party. And he lost the Democrats a long time ago.''
 Reality is caving in on a president who was held aloft for so long by a combination of ideological mumbo-jumbo, the public relations legerdemain of Karl Rove and the buoyant patriotism that followed the Sept. 11 attacks. The Bush people were never big on reality, so sooner or later they were bound to be blindsided by it.
 Remember, there was already a war going on when Katrina came to call. I've always believed that war is a serious matter. But the president was on vacation. Dick Cheney was on vacation. And Condi Rice was here in New York taking in the sights and shopping for shoes. That Americans were fighting and dying on foreign soil was not enough to demand their full attention. They were busy having fun. So it's no wonder it took a good long while before they noticed that a whole section of America had been wiped out in a calamity of biblical proportions.
 What Americans are finally catching onto is the utter incompetence of this crowd. And if we didn't know before, we're learning now, in the harshest possible ways, that incompetence has bitter consequences. The body count of Americans killed in Iraq has now passed 1,900, with many more deaths to come. But there's still no strategy, no plan. The White House hasn't the slightest clue about what to do. So the dying will continue.
 Mr. Bush's ''Top Gun'' moment aboard the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln was two and a half years ago. It was another example of the president in fantasyland. The war was a botch from the beginning. Mr. Bush never sent enough troops to get the job done, and he never provided enough armor to protect the troops that he did send. Thin-skinned, the president got rid of anyone who had the temerity to suggest he might be wrong about some of the decisions he was making.
 Here at home, even loyal Republicans are beginning to bail out on Mr. Bush's fiendish willingness to shove the monumental costs of the federal government's operations -- including his war, his tax cuts and his promised reconstruction of the Gulf Coast -- onto the unsuspecting backs of generations still to come.
 There is a general sense now that things are falling apart. The economy was already faltering before Katrina hit. Gasoline prices are starting to undermine the standard of living of some Americans, and a full-blown home-heating-oil crisis could erupt this winter. The administration's awful response to the agony of the Gulf Coast has left most Americans believing that we are not prepared to cope with a large terrorist attack. And Osama bin Laden is still at large.
 This is what happens when voters choose a president because he seems like a nice guy, like someone who'd be fun at a barbecue or a ballgame. You'd never use that criterion when choosing a surgeon, or a pilot to fly your family across the country.
 Mr. Bush will be at the helm of the ship of state for three more years, so we have no choice but to hang on. But the next time around, voters need to keep in mind that beyond the incessant yammering about left and right, big government and small, Democrats and Republicans, is a more immediate issue, and that's competence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); TERRORISM (64%) United States Politics and Government; Public Opinion; Election Issues; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Usa Today/cnn/gallup Poll; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KARL ROVE (57%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); DICK CHENEY (56%) Bob Herbert; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



521 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BIG APPLE TO BIG EASY REVIEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Revive the City That Care Forgot

BYLINE: By KELEFA SANNEH

 BODY:
On Tuesday night, Radio City Music Hall played host to one of two hurricane-relief concerts called ''From the Big Apple to the Big Easy.'' (The other was held simultaneously at Madison Square Garden.) The stars were Dave Matthews, the Neville Brothers, and a dozen more. And the show started as soon as you hit the lobby: jazz wafted down from the mezzanine as concertgoers found ways to look festive (shiny beads) and feel festive (plastic cups). 
 Katrina threatened to redefine the way many nonlocals view New Orleans. The jubilant images from tourist brochures were replaced by grim images and grim reports on race and class and poverty.
Given all that, Tuesday's concert was a bit of a throwback: a return to a recent time when visitors could imagine New Orleans as a happy, even carefree place. The money raised was to go to a variety of organizations, including the Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund. (As he did at Madison Square Garden, former President Bill Clinton stopped by to make an uncharacteristically brief speech; he got a rock star's ovation.) And in this sense, the concert echoed not only New Orleans's past but its future, too. After Katrina, as before it, the city will inevitably rely upon money from out-of-towners in search of a good time.
 The first half of the concert was devoted to funk and the blues, much of it from New Orleans acts. The Meters excavated old grooves; the Neville Brothers did a slow, aching version of ''A Change Is Gonna Come;'' Galactic, a New Orleans jam band, performed with the chief of the Mardi Gras Indians, an African-American krewe. John Mayer played with his blues trio, then brought out the young British soul singer Joss Stone; they flirted their way through ''Super Duper Love (Are You Diggin' on Me?), Pt. 1.''
 The night's M.C. was Harry Shearer, the actor and radio host best known for his role in ''Spinal Tap'' and for doing some of the voices on ''The Simpsons.'' He did his best to kill time between acts, although he learned the hard way how impatient jam-band fans can be. Before the much-anticipated appearance of Mr. Matthews, some of the philanthropists started booing.Mr. Matthews didn't disappoint: he did a lovely solo set, beating restless rhythms on his acoustic guitar while showing off his raspy falsetto. He was joined by Trey Anastasio, former guitarist of Phish, who also played a short set with his new band, then presided over the inevitable show-closing jam session, during which the Indians made their return.But the night's most memorable performance came from perhaps the least jubilant performer: Tom Waits. ''I'm telling you right now, I wish New Orleans was dry and Washington was under water,'' he growled, and when he returned for the night's only encore, he did a squint-eyed version of ''Make It Rain.'' He sounded a bit like the city he commemorated: old and weird and set in his ways and intent no matter what on staying the same.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dave Matthews, left, and Trey Anastasio at Radio City Music Hall. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSIC (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAVE MATTHEWS (89%); BILL CLINTON (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



522 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Kerry and Edwards, 2005

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
John Kerry and John Edwards ran for office together and they lost together, and they both gave major speeches about Katrina this week, but there the similarity ends. The two men might as well live in different worlds.
 Kerry began his speech by making the point that Bush and his crew are rotten. He then went on to make the point that Bush and his crew are loathsome. In the third section of the speech, Kerry left the impression that Bush and his crew are evil. 
 Now we all know people so consumed by hatred for George Bush that they haven't had an unpredictable thought in five years, but in Kerry's speech one sees this anger in almost clinical form.
 In the first place, not even Karl Rove's worldview is so obsessively Bush-centric as John Kerry's. There are many interesting issues raised by Katrina, but for Senator Ahab it all goes back to the great white monster, Bush. Bush and his crew should have known the levees were weak. Bush and his crew should have known thousands in New Orleans would be trapped. (Did I miss Kerry's own warnings on these subjects?)
 All reality flows back to Bush. All begins with Bush, ends with Bush, is explained by Bush and is polluted by Bush, cursed be thy name.
 And as the speech stretches on, a second thought occurs: Doesn't this guy ever get bored? If Kerry ever makes an anti-Bush jab, he makes it again. The old DeLay jibes, he makes them again. The Wolfowitz attacks, he makes them again. Porn movies have less repetition than this, and yet the ''Mission Accomplished'' carrier deck scene gets hauled out again, for one feels this is not a normal speech designed to persuade or inform, but a primitive rite designed to channel group outrage.
 John Edwards's speech had a different feel. Edwards took some hard shots at Bush, some of them deserved, but having left Washington after the election, Edwards is not so obsessed with power struggles. In his talk he roamed outward and spoke about the complexities of actual life. 
 He mentioned that the typical white family has about $80,000 in assets, while the typical Hispanic family has about $8,000, and the typical African-American family has about $6,000. That's an astonishing gap.
 Edwards mentioned a woman in Kansas City who makes $9.50 an hour and can't pay her utility bills. He mentioned a boy in Chicago who designed a T-shirt about his absent father. It reads: ''You won't be there. Should have, could have, would have.'' The T-shirt has a hole cut out in the shape of a heart.
 Edwards weaved a story about the gnarly complexities of poverty in this country, about the tangled and reinforcing feedback loops that run between family breakdowns and economic insecurity. He concluded with a series of policy recommendations fit for the post-welfare-reform world.
 No conservative would agree with all of them, but nobody could fail to find them interesting. While the old welfare policies allowed people to evade the world of work and enabled people to drop out of school and have children, Edwards proposed a series of policies designed to encourage work, to encourage responsibility, to help the poor build assets. 
 The Kerry-Edwards contrast is characteristic of the argument that now divides the Democratic Party. On one side are those who believe that the party's essential problem is with its political style. The Republicans win because they are simply rougher, so the Democrats must be just as tough in response. They must match Karl Rove blow for blow. Democrats in this camp are voting against John Roberts just to show the world, and their donors above all, that they are willing to give no quarter.
 On the other side are those who believe that the Democratic defeats flow from policy problems, not from campaign style or message framing. They don't believe that Democrats can win wrapped in their own rage, or kowtowing endlessly to their psychologically aggrieved donor base. For them, the crucial challenge is to come up with policies more in tune with voters. 
 Kerry speaks for the first group, which believes in more partisanship, and Edwards for the second, which believes in less. 
 I have discussions with my Democratic friends over whether the party will snap back to Clintonite centrism after the polarizing Bush leaves town. Some think yes. I suspect no. As Kerry's speech shows, the emotional tenor of the party has changed. The donors are aroused. Bush may end up changing the Democratic Party more than his own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HURRICANES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); WEATHER (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%); PORNOGRAPHY (50%) Election Issues; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KARL ROVE (54%) David Brooks; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005



523 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 16432 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Sept. 23-Sept. 29

 BODY:

Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan regions this week. *denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

Previews and Openings

'FRAN'S BED' Opens Sunday. The fall season's celebrity sightings begin as James Lapine directs Mia Farrow and Julia Stiles in his surreal comedy about life, death and soap operas (1:45). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200. 'GEORGE SAUNDERS'S PASTORALIA' Opens Sunday. Ed and Janet work in a historically themed amusement park in this adaptation of the cult writer's work (1:25). P.S. 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212)352-3101.

'NO FOREiGNERS BEYOND THIS POINT' Opens Sunday. A new drama by Warren Leight (''Side Man'') about two American teachers in China during the Cultural Revolution (2:00). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)352-3101.

'THE GREAT AMERICAN TRAILER PARK MUSICAL' Opens Tuesday. A hit at the 2004 New York Musical Theater Festival, this comic musical features original songs about life in a trailer park (2:00). Dodger Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200.

'COLDER THAN HERE' Opens Wednesday. Judith Light, Brian Murray, Sarah Paulson and Lily Rabe star in Laura Wade's dark comedy about a woman planning her funeral (1:30). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)279-4200.

'IN THE WINGS' Opens Wednesday. Peter Scolari stars in a new play by Stewart F. Lane about a young couple, both actors, who are cast in a musical. Directed by Jeremy Dobrish (2:00). Promenade Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212)239-6200.

'CYCLING PAST THE MATTERHORN' Opens Thursday. With her mother going blind, Amy, a mediocre psychic, worries that this means that she has to take care of her. Deborah Grimberg's comedy stars the Tony winner Shirley Knight (1:35). Harold Clurman Theater on Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200.

'ABSURD PERSON SINGULAR' Opens Oct. 18. The latest comedy by the unstoppably prolific Alan Ayckbourn is about three couples and takes place over three holiday seasons (2:30). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212)239-6200.

'LATE FRAGMENT' Previews start Wednesday. Opens Oct. 1. Matthew flees the attack on the World Trade Center only to find an impatient wife at home and a group of reporters looking to turn him into a hero. Michael Imperioli and Zetna Fuentes direct Francine Volpe's play (1:30). Studio Dante, 257 West 29th Street, Chelsea, (212)279-4200.

'THE MASTER BUILDER' Opens Oct. 2. The trusty old Pearl Theater presents Ibsen's play, a cocktail of realism and expressionism about an architect reflecting on his own drive to succeed (2:20). Pearl Theater, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212)598-9802.

'SLUT' Opens Oct. 1. A hit at the 2003 Fringe Festival, Ben H. Winters and Stephen Sislen's musical is about two best friends and the rocker who comes between them (2:00). American Theater of Actors, 314 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212)(212)239-6200.

'A SOLDIER'S PLAY' Opens Oct. 17. The first major New York revival of Charles Fuller's play about the trial of a black soldier during World War II. Taye Diggs stars (2:10). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212)246-4422.

'THIRD' Previews start Thursday. Opens Oct. 24. A professor played by Dianne Wiest accuses a student of plagiarism in Wendy Wasserstein's latest. Daniel Sullivan directs (2:00). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212)239-6200.

Broadway

'CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG' The playthings are the thing in this lavish windup music box of a show: windmills, Rube Goldberg-esque machines and the show's title character, a flying car. It's like spending two and a half hours in the Times Square branch of Toys ''R'' Us (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Ben Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' On paper this musical tale of two mismatched scam artists has an awful lot in common with ''The Producers.'' But if you are going to court comparison with giants, you had better be prepared to stand tall. ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' starring John Lithgow and Norbert Leo Butz, never straightens out of a slouch (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Cherry Jones), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Brian F. O'Byrne), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr, 219 West 48th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Still, it seems safe to say that such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence will find a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'SWEET CHARITY' This revival of the 1966 musical never achieves more than a low-grade fever when what's wanted is that old steam heat. In the title role of the hopeful dance-hall hostess, the appealing but underequipped Christina Applegate is less a shopworn angel than a merry cherub (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

*'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around. (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212)239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

Off Broadway

'THE BLOWIN OF BAILE GALL' Ronan Noone's play concerns the complicated relationships among four laborers and a general contractor renovating a house in Ireland. Mr. Noone draws his characters sharply and surely, but the play is overburdened with conflict. There's enough here to fuel a whole season of a television soap (2:00). Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton, (212)868-4444.(Isherwood)

'DEDICATION, OR THE STUFF OF DREAMS' Portraying a terminally ill, rancidly rich misanthrope in Terrence McNally's play about a small-town children's theater troupe, Marian Seldes is a snappy advertisement for the time-defying benefits of a religious devotion to theater. She is, in fact, what ''Dedication'' is all about, or intends to be, anyway. Burdened with soap-opera-ish plot turns and artificially bright dialogue, this comedy of mortality never seems able to convince itself that life and art trump death and doubt. (2:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212)279-4200. (Brantley)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE INTELLIGENT DESIGN OF JENNY CHOW' In Rolin Jones's fanciful comedy, playfully directed by Jackson Gay, a lonely young woman in California embarks on an ambitious science project to help conquer her agoraphobia and trace her origins in China. Brisk, funny and engaging, the play disappoints only in its emphasis on flights of fancy over a nuanced depiction of its heroine's emotional dilemmas (2:10). Atlantic Theater Company, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood) 'KISSING FIDEL' In Eduardo Machado's overwrought new play, an emotionally incontinent novelist causes much havoc among a family of Cuban exiles in Miami when he announces that he's heading to the homeland to embrace the hated dictator. Much kissing, little coherence (2:00). Kirk Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212)279-4200. (Isherwood)

'THE LADIES OF THE CORRIDOR' The Peccadillo Theater Company has revived this 1953 play by Dorothy Parker and Arnaud D'Usseau. A comedy set in an East Side hotel populated by widows and divorcees, it is an unyielding and coruscating portrait of women before feminism, relieved by Parker's dead-on wit. East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212)279-4200.(Honor Moore)

'MOTHER COURAGE' An effort more commendable for its intention than its execution. A staging that fails to capture either the tragedy or the comedy of the play, let alone the ironies of war (2:45). Jean Cocteau Repertory, at the Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery, at Bond Street, East Village, (212)279-4200. (Wilborn Hampton)

*'ORSON'S SHADOW' Austin Pendleton's play, about a 1960 production of Ionesco's ''Rhinoceros,'' which was directed by Orson Welles and starred Laurence Olivier, is a sharp-witted but tenderhearted backstage comedy about the thin skins, inflamed nerves and rampaging egos that are the customary side effects when sensitivity meets success (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212)239-6200. (Isherwood)

'ONCE AROUND THE SUN' The ''sun'' of the title could be the talent and energy of its impressive cast: you can warm your hands on them and on the catchy music. Unfortunately, the book fails to capitalize on these strengths, instead presenting a trite fable about a young rock singer seduced by celebrity, with cardboard characters, despite the actors' best efforts to give them dimension. Still, the performances are very entertaining (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Anne Midgette)

'ONE-MAN STAR WARS TRILOGY' With a storm trooper roaming the aisles and a woman in an Obi-Wan Kenobi get-up telling theatergoers to turn off their cellphones or they will be turned into ''cosmic dust,'' Charles Ross's sprint through Episodes IV through VI aims for the atmosphere of a ''Star Wars'' convention but ends up achieving something like a religious revival (which is sort of the same thing). True believers will love how Mr. Ross, a self-confessed geek who plays every major role in under an hour, simulates R2D2, but everyone else will scratch his head (1:00). Lamb's Theater, 130 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200. (Jason Zinoman) 'THE PAVILION' Craig Wright's play about the speedy wheels of time's winged chariot and the dreams it grinds into dust is set at a small-town high school reunion. Brian D'Arcy James aches with longing as the cad who wants a second chance. Jennifer Mudge, as the girl he abandoned, is poignantly hopeless. Gracefully directed by Lucie Tiberghien (2:00). Rattlestick Theater, 224 Waverly Place, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)868-4444. (Isherwood)

*'SIDES: THE FEAR IS REAL' This hilarious collection of sketches may send up familiar targets -- the insecure thespian, the fraudulent acting teacher, the arrogant Juilliard grad -- but since it's performed with such specificity and comic charm by actors firing on all cylinders, you won't care a whit. Written by and starring an all-Asian-American cast, this slight but consistently entertaining satire is a primer on what not to do in an audition room (1:15). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212)307-4100. (Zinoman) *'SPIRIT' Three men and one slippery slope of a stage. From these simple elements, the inspired London-based Improbable troupe maps a funny, melancholy and altogether entrancing journey into a land of dreams, warfare and actorly neurosis. A magical demonstration that theater can go places that no other art form can. (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Off Broadway

'BELLY OF A DRUNKEN PIANO' In this splendidly imperfect cabaret, Stewart D'Arrietta howls and growls convincingly through Tom Waits's three-decade song catalogue, backed by a snappy trio. His patter and his piano playing are variable, but Mr. D'Arrietta makes a genial tour guide through Mr. Waits's wee-hours world (1:45). Huron Club at SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212)691-1555. (Rob Kendt)

* 'COUCHWORKS' On a set featuring a beat-up couch, this lively collection of one-acts by playwrights like Adam Rapp and Theresa Rebeck has the feel of a party thrown by the cool kids of downtown theater. By far the most fully realized play is ''Music for a High Ceiling,'' in which a potentially dry subject -- the history of the theremin and the trumpet -- is staged with panache and attention to detail by Steve Cosson, the artistic director of the excellent troupe the Civilians (1:30). The Tank at Chashama, 208 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212)868-4444. (Zinoman)

'LIMITLESS JOY' This muddled three-hour epic by Josh Fox, the experimental Brooklyn-based writer and director of dreamscapes like ''The Bomb,'' pulses with sex, violence and the kind of melodramatic music that would shame John Williams. Mr. Fox deserves credit for translating his bold and operatic visions to the stage, but his stage pictures -- his calling card -- are mechanical and overly familiar (2:50). The Flamboyan Theater in the Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, between Delancey and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side, (212)886-4551. (Zinoman)

'SCREEN PLAY' A.R. Gurney's gleefully partisan retooling of the film ''Casablanca'' sets one tough saloon owner's battle between idealism and cynicism in Buffalo in the 21st century. Staged by Jim Simpson as a deftly orchestrated reading, ''Screen Play'' turns out to be more than a quick collegiate caper; it's a morally indignant work that fights frivolity with frivolity (1:10). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212)352-3101. (Brantley)

'SILK STOCKINGS' A bubbly and amusing show about cold war politics and love that is still appealing 15 years after the fall of the Iron Curtain. The jokes are still funny. The songs are vintage Porter -- witty, sophisticated and lively (2:30). Florence Gould Hall in the French Institute Alliance Francaise, 55 East 59th Street, (212)307-4100. (Hampton)

Long-Running Shows

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212)307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212)239-6200.(Brantley)

'FIDDLER ON THE ROOF' The Shtetl Land pavilion in the theme park called Broadway. With Rosie O'Donnell and Harvey Fierstein. (2:55). The Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'MOVIN' OUT' The miracle dance musical that makes Billy Joel cool (2:00). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

*'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron district, (212)307-4100.(Lawrence Van Gelder)

'STOMP' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, Second Avenue at Eighth Street, East Village, (212)477-2477. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212)307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'ALL SHOOK UP' In a pint-size theater with a campy young cast, this might be a moderate hoot. Inflated to Broadway proportions, it's a mind-numbing holler (2:10). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (212)307-4100, closing Sunday. ( Brantley)

'JOY' John Fisher's play with music, a lecture-prone valentine to San Francisco and gay life among college students, says less about human sexuality and longing than the classic, melancholy love songs the cast performs (2:00). The Actors' Playhouse, 100 Seventh Avenue South, at Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212)239-6200, closing Sunday. . (Andrea Stevens)

'LENNON' In the immortal words of Yoko Ono, ''Aieeeee!'' (2:10). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212)239-6200, closing Saturday. (Brantley)

'PHILADELPHIA, HERE I COME!' Ciaran O'Reilly's small but spirited production of Brian Friel's mournful, funny 1964 play centers on a lonely young man preparing to flee the small-minded Irish backwater he grew up in for the big time in the U.S. of A. Michael FitzGerald and James Kennedy are nicely contrasted as the public and private faces of a man at a painful crossroads (2:20). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212)727-2737, closing Sunday. (Isherwood)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

*'THE ARISTOCRATS' (No rating, 89 minutes) A rigorously scholarly documentary about the theory and practice of joke-telling that also happens to be one of the filthiest, vilest, most extravagantly obscene movies ever made -- and one of the funniest. (A.O. Scott)

'THE BAXTER' (PG-13, 91 minutes) A ''Baxter,'' in the lingo of this romantic comedy written by, directed by and starring the comedian Michael Showalter, is the safe choice, the also-ran, the guy who is left at the altar when the hero shows up, as Dustin Hoffman did in ''The Graduate,'' to claim his true love. The film's tragic flaw is that Mr. Showalter is miscast -- or has miscast himself -- in the title role. In the end, ''The Baxter'' is a Baxter of a movie: well meaning and mildly likable, but unlikely to sweep you off your feet. (Dana Stevens)

* 'BROKEN FLOWERS' (R, 105 minutes) Sweet, funny, sad and meandering, Jim Jarmusch's new film sends Bill Murray's aging Don Juan out in search of a son he never knew he had. He finds four former lovers, including Sharon Stone and Jessica Lange, and reveals once again that he is the quietest and finest comic actor working in movies today. (Scott)

'THE BROTHERS GRIMM' (PG-13, 118 minutes) Despite a few early sparks of promise, Terry Gilliam's big-screen adventure about the brother folklorists (played by Matt Damon and Heath Ledger) sputters and coughs along like an unoiled machine, grinding gears and nerves in equal measure. (Manohla Dargis)

'CHAIN' (No rating, 99 minutes) Jem Cohen's sad, lyrical evocation of the homogeneity of the global landscape views it through the eyes of two young women: a Japanese corporate functionary researching theme parks in the United States and a glum temp worker eking out a living in shopping malls and motels. (Stephen Holden) *'THE CONSTANT GARDENER' (R, 129 minutes) A superior thriller with a conscience, from John le Carre's novel.( Scott)

*'EL CRIMEN PERFECTO' (No rating, 105 minutes, in Spanish) In this antic and outrageous black comedy, Rafael Gonzalez (Guillermo Toledo) is a salesman in the women's section of a Madrid department store. Rafael's fondest dream is to be floor manager; when his archrival for the position, Don Antonio (Luis Varela), is accidentally killed in a scuffle in the dressing room, Rafael's world begins to unravel. Like the Ferris wheel that serves as the setting for one of its climactic scenes, ''El Crimen Perfecto'' is a bright, gaudy and tremendously satisfying ride. (Stevens)

'EVERYTHING IS ILLUMINATED' (PG-13, 104 minutes) From Jonathan Safran Foer's novel, a sentimental Holocaust tale; tender and funny in places, but also thin and soft. (Scott)

'THE EXORCISM OF EMILY ROSE' (PG-13, 114 minutes) If you must see only one demonic-possession courtroom drama this year, wait for the next one. (Scott)

'FINDING ELEAZAR' (No rating, 78 minutes) This documentary follows the great operatic tenor Neil Shicoff as he prepares to sing the lead role in Halevy's 1835 opera, ''La Juive.'' (Holden)

*'THE 40-YEAR-OLD VIRGIN' (R, 111 minutes) A sex comedy turned romantic bliss-out, with Steve Carell, in which the sound of one prophylactic snapping is just a single sweet note in the glorious symphony of love. (Dargis)

'FOUR BROTHERS' (R, 148 minutes) In John Singleton's slick hybrid of urban western and modern blaxploitation movie, four young men, two black and two white, reunite in Detroit to avenge the shooting death of their saintly adoptive mother. Preposterous, amoral and exciting. (Holden)

'THE FUTURE OF FOOD' (No rating, 88 minutes) Deborah Koons Garcia's documentary polemic examines the history of genetically modified food and points an accusing finger at the biotech company Monsanto as a greedy villain. The heroes are organic farmers. (Holden)

*'GARCON STUPIDE' (No rating, 94 minutes, in French) Loic (Pierre Chatagny) is a gay Swiss man who works in a chocolate factory and spends his nights cruising the streets and the Internet for anonymous sex. An intriguing examination of alienation and dysfunction, with Mr. Chatagny entirely convincing as a disconcerting blend of emotional innocence and sexual proficiency. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

*'GRIZZLY MAN' (R, 103 minutes) Werner Herzog's bold, enthralling documentary about one man's journey into the heart of darkness (and the belly of the beast) traces the life and strange times of the self-anointed grizzly expert Timothy Treadwell. (Dargis)

'I AM CUBA: THE SIBERIAN MAMMOTH' (No rating, 90 minutes, in Spanish, Portuguese and Russian) An illuminating documentary on the making of ''I Am Cuba,'' Mikhail Kalatozov's legendary 1964 film about revolutionary Cuba. (Scott)

* 'JUNEBUG' (R, 107 minutes) A Southern ''Five Easy Pieces,'' this deep, bittersweet comedy about a young man's return from Chicago to his family's North Carolina home envelops us in the texture of a culture the movies seldom visit. Amy Adams gives an incandescent portrayal of the man's pregnant, childlike sister-in-law. (Holden)

'JUST LIKE HEAVEN' (PG-13, 95 minutes) Reese Witherspoon's disembodied spirit haunts Mark Ruffalo in a real estate dispute that runs into a sweet romantic comedy. Surprisingly lighthearted and brisk, considering its fairly morbid premise.(Scott)

*'KEANE' (R, 93 minutes) A man goes searching for his lost daughter -- or does he? The irony of this very fine film is that while the director Lodge Kerrigan's approach can verge on the entomological, he grants this troubled, difficult character the full measure of his humanity. (Dargis)

'LORD OF WAR' (R, 122 minutes) A misfire of a political satire about the international gun market from Andrew Niccol, a filmmaker whose words say no, but whose overworked visual style says lock and load, baby. (Dargis)

*'MARCH OF THE PENGUINS' (G, 80 minutes) This sentimental but riveting documentary follows the one-year mating cycle of emperor penguins in Antarctica when they leave the ocean and march inland to breed and lay eggs. Narrated by Morgan Freeman, the film has no qualms about playing on our emotions. (Holden)

*'THE MEMORY OF A KILLER' (R, 120 minutes, in Flemish and French) Directed by Erik Van Looy, this nicely kinked Belgian thriller features a range of good guys and bad, including one whose sense of morality and world-weariness seem straight out of a Jean-Pierre Melville film. (Dargis)

*'OCCUPATION: DREAMLAND' (No rating, 79 minutes) In early 2004, eight members of the United States Army's 82nd Airborne Division allowed the directors Ian Olds and Garrett Scott to shadow them for six weeks in a rapidly destabilizing Fallujah. The resulting film is a respectful and determinedly nonpartisan portrait of regular guys -- the smart and the average, the blusterers and the introverts, the gung-ho and the conflicted -- all doing their best to carry out inchoate orders in an untenable situation. (Catsoulis)

*'PRETTY PERSUASION' (No rating, 104 minutes) In this go-for-broke satire, Evan Rachel Wood plays a toxic 15-year-old alpha girl who joins with two sidekicks from her private Beverly Hills high school to falsely accuse their English and drama teacher of sexual harassment. Very funny and very nasty. (Holden)

'PROOF' (PG-13, 100 minutes) A terribly serious adaptation of David Auburn's prize-laden Broadway play, starring Gwyneth Paltrow as the daughter of a dead mathematician struggling to come to terms with both her father's legacy and her own troubled mind. (Dargis)

* 'RED EYE' (PG-13, 85 minutes) The sights and sounds of two people talking become a nerve-jangling duet for cat and mouse, hunter and prey in Wes Craven's nifty, tense thriller. (Dargis)

'SEPARATE LIES' (R, 87 minutes) A hit-and-run accident near the country house of an imperious British lawyer (magnificently played by Tom Wilkinson) leads him into an ethical labyrinth that tests his moral mettle as well as that of his wife (Emily Watson) and her lover (Rupert Everett). ( Holden)

'THUMBSUCKER' (R, 96 minutes) A better-than-usual coming-of-age story, via Sundance but without the usual sensationalism or condescension, and with some very fine performances, notably by Lou Pucci as a teenage boy with a childish habit. (Scott)

'TIM BURTON'S CORPSE BRIDE' (PG-13, 90 minutes) A necrophiliac animation for the whole family about a melancholic boy, the girl he hopes to marry and the bodacious cadaver that accidentally comes between them. (Dargis)

'TRANSPORTER 2' (PG-13, 88 minutes) Ex-Special Forces operative Frank Martin (Jason Statham), the blank-faced professional driver with more tricks -- and lives -- than James Bond, is back in this purely shallow, but never dull, sequel to ''The Transporter.'' This time, he's in Miami and will do whatever it takes to save the life of a young boy who's been kidnapped and injected with a deadly contagious virus. (Kern)

* '2046' (R, 129 minutes) An ecstatically beautiful story in which time is marked not by the hands of a clock, but by the women who pass through one man's life, ''2046'' is the eighth feature film from the Hong Kong director Wong Kar-wai and the long-awaited follow-up to his art-house favorite ''In the Mood for Love.'' A film about longing, loss and the delicate curve of a woman's back, it is also an unqualified triumph. (Dargis)

'AN UNFINISHED LIFE' (PG-13, 108 minutes) This contemporary Western starring Robert Redford, Jennifer Lopez and Morgan Freeman is a solemn, sentimental bore that suffocates in its own predictability and watered-down psychobabble. All three stars recycle stereotypes they've played before. (Holden)

'THE UNTOLD STORY OF EMMETT LOUIS TILL' (No rating, 70 minutes) Keith A. Beauchamp's lean, harrowing documentary about the 50-year-old murder that catalyzed the civil rights movement offers new evidence that the crime was a broader conspiracy than originally thought. (Holden) 'VENOM' (R, 85 minutes) A zombie tow-truck driver terrifies teenagers in a swampy Louisiana town. Jim Gillespie's minor horror flick certainly can't be called a good movie, but within its genre, it's perfectly palatable and relatively uninsulting. (Anita Gates)

'WAR OF THE WORLDS' (PG-13, 117 minutes) The aliens invade (again). Effectively scary and visually impressive. (Scott)

'WEDDING CRASHERS' (R, 113 minutes) A wink-wink, nudge-nudge Trojan horse of a story, this amiably raunchy sex comedy pivots on two Lotharios persuasively inhabited by Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn. They love the ladies but really and truly, cross their cheating hearts, just want a nice girl to call wife. Credited to the screenwriters Steve Faber and Bob Fisher. (Dargis)

FILM SERIES

FOREVER GARBO: A RETROSPECTIVE (Through Dec. 17) The American-Scandinavian Foundation is sponsoring this 14-film program, which includes early Swedish and silent films as well as Garbo's Hollywood work. The series continues tomorrow with George Cukor's ''Camille'' (1937), in which she plays Dumas's tragic courtesan with a cough, and on Wednesday with ''Ninotchka'' (1939), about a stern Russian woman who softens in Paris. Garbo, who died in 1990, would have turned 100 this month. Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, between 37th and 38th Streets, (212)879-9779; $8.(Gates)

FRANCOIS TRUFFAUT (Through Nov. 27) The IFC Center's Weekend Classics program is presenting a dozen Truffaut features and two shorts. This weekend's film, to be screened at noon today, tomorrow and Sunday, is ''Jules et Jim'' (1962), in which one woman (Jeanne Moreau) loves two men, and that turns out not to be a problem. 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212)924-7771; $10.75. (Gates)

NEWSFAKERS/FILMMAKERS (Through Oct. 4 Beginning on Wednesday, the IFC Center is screening an evening of short comedy films from the writers of Comedy Central's hit series ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.'' The program includes ''Zombie American,'' ''Sanford Van Johnson: A Life Near the Theater'' and ''The Catskills Chainsaw Massacre.'' (See above); $10.75. (Gates)

NO VISA REQUIRED: FILMS FROM THE MIDDLE EAST (Through Nov. 19) The TriBeCa Film Institute and ArteEast are collaborating on a five-program screening of six films, followed by discussions with the filmmakers. The event begins tomorrow with ''Happy Birthday, Mr. Mograbi'' (Israel, 1999), a mockumentary about a film director with three conflicting deadlines. Other films to be screened include ''The Prince'' (Tunisia, 2004), a love story about a flower vendor, and ''The Lizard'' (Iran, 2004), a slapstick comedy about an escaped prisoner who disguises himself as a mullah. Cantor Film Center, New York University, 36 East Eighth Street, East Village, (212)941-3890; $10. (Gates) REPERTORY NIGHTS (Through Nov. 6) The Museum of the Moving Image continues its annual film series tomorrow and Sunday with Jean Cocteau's ''Beauty and the Beast'' (1946), his visually dazzling fairy tale with Jean Marais and Josette Day in the title roles. Other auteurs represented in the festival include Akira Kurosawa, F.W. Murnau, Stanley Kubrick and Francois Truffaut. 35th Avenue, at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718)784-0077; $10. (Gates)

SHOAH (Sunday) On the 20th anniversary of Claude Lanzmann's unparalleled Holocaust documentary ''Shoah,'' the Museum of Jewish Heritage is screening this nine-and-a-half-hour documentary, which won BAFTA, Cesar, Berlin Film Festival, Los Angeles Film Critics Association, National Society of Film Critics and New York Film Critics Circle awards. Part 2 is being shown on Sunday. 36 Battery Place, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan, (646)437-4202; $10. (Gates)

SOME LIKE IT WILDER: THE COMPLETE BILLY WILDER (Through Nov. 13) The Museum of the Moving Image is sponsoring a 26-film retrospective of Wilder, the Austrian-born director-writer who gave the world ''Sunset Boulevard'' and ''Double Indemnity.'' This weekend's features are ''Some Like It Hot'' (1959), Wilder's brilliant comedy with Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis and Marilyn Monroe; ''A Foreign Affair'' (1948), in which Marlene Dietrich and Jean Arthur play a Berlin cafe singer and an American congresswoman; and ''Stalag 17'' (1953), a dark comedy set in a German prison camp. (See above); $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

KIRAN AHLUWALIA (Thursday) Born in India and raised in Toronto, Kiran Ahluwalia writes and performs ghazals, sung poems of courtship that originated in Persia 1,000 years ago and reached India 400 years later. 7:30 p.m., Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212)576-1155; $18 in advance, $20 at the door.(Laura Sinagra)

JOSEPH ARTHUR (Wednesday) The self-absorbed singer-songwriter Joseph Arthur writes rapturous odes to loss, matching lyrics of grief to impressionistic soundscapes. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111; $18 in advance, $20 at the door. (Sinagra)

BLACK REBEL MOTORCYCLE CLUB (Monday) Moving lately from the surly, noisy sound their name implies to a rootsier realm, these Los Angeles rockers now play harmonica and strum away on acoustic guitars. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212)777-6800; $17.50 in advance, $20 at the door (sold out). (Sinagra)

BLACK MOUNTAIN (Tuesday and Wednesday) This Vancouver band makes fat-bottomed psychedelic art-folk. Its leader Stephen McBean's wayward structures and vocals are aided by Amber Webber's more pointed singing. Tuesday at 8:30 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201)653-1703; $8. Wednesday at 10:30 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)260-4700; $12 in advance, $14 at the door. (Sinagra)

BROOKS & DUNN, BIG & RICH, COWBOY TROY (Tonight) The long-running country duo Brooks & Dunn try to get their hillbilly on with a new batch of songs, including the ''Play Something Country.'' They are paired here with the upstarts Big & Rich, a duo for whom hip-hop is just another Southern form to draw on. The country singer and rapper Cowboy Troy is one of their proteges. 7, PNC Bank Arts Center, Exit 116, Garden State Parkway, Holmdel, N.J.; (732)335-0400, $20 to $75. (Sinagra)

BROOKLYN RESPONDS: HURRICANE KATRINA BENEFIT (Sunday) Musicians playing here for Hurricane Katrina relief include the Wrens, whose meditative albums and up-tempo live shows offer two different rock responses to suburban tensions; the ambling 90's indie rock nostalgist Sam Champion; members of the reflective band Nada Surf; the songwriting brooder Richard Buckner; and others. 7 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)230-0236; $15. (Sinagra)

TRACY CHAPMAN (Tomorrow) This singer-songwriter's angsty alto pop-folk song ''Fast Car,'' a kind of anti-''Born To Run,'' became an instant classic when late-80's recession sunk in, offering a working-class escape fantasy so modest it was heartbreaking. 7 p.m., Satalla, 37 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212)576-1155; $35. (Sinagra)

CITIZEN COPE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Clarence Greenwood, better known as Citizen Cope, emerged from the spaced-out hip-hop group Basehead to present himself as a songwriter, mixing the moans of Southern rock with the looped, leisurely constructions of downtempo hip-hop. 8, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212)777-6800; $20 in advance, $22 at the door, $35 for a two-day pass.(Jon Pareles)

MARSHALL CRENSHAW POWER TRIO (Tomorrow) Marshall Crenshaw's songs seem to roll off the guitar in a casual blend of pre-1970's styles -- folk-rock, surf-rock, country and above all, the Beatles -- that put melody first. With his winsome tenor, he delves into the ways love goes right and goes wrong, from distant yearning to the aftermath of infidelity, hiding turmoil within the chiming tunes. 7 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)230-0236; $15. (Pareles)

DEERHOOF (Wednesday) This excitingly whimsical band harbors affection in equal amounts for No Wave angularity, exuberant noise-pop and outsider naif art like that of the Shaggs. Its latest material is more pacific than earlier work, which included an electronically augmented fractured fairy tale about a kidnapping milkman. 8 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)599-5103; $12. (Sinagra)

GAVIN DEGRAW, JOSS STONE (Sunday and Tuesday) Mr. Degraw is a middle-of-the-road, blue-eyed soul singer who was supposed to be a phenom, and Ms. Stone is a primly reverent British Janis Joplin acolyte turned Gap ad girl. Both are reliable singers, though unoriginal. 6:45 p.m., Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212)247-0200; $34.(Sinagra)

THE ALEJANDRO ESCOVEDO ORCHESTRA, LENNY KAYE (Thursday) Alejandro Escovedo was a member of pioneering punk-country groups like Rank and File and the True Believers. He often sings now about how to endure loss: with stoic clarity, steadfast guitar chords and a weary determination. The producer, garage-rock archivist, Patti Smith collaborator and local institution Lenny Kaye also performs. 9 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212)777-6800; $25. (Pareles)

DRIVE-BY TRUCKERS (Thursday) The Alabama-born son of a Muscle Shoals session musician and polymath music fan, the Truckers leader Patterson Hood, works through regional identity issues through deeply felt Southern rock. His guitarist bandmates, the honky-tonk punk Mike Cooley and the gothic anthem whiz Jason Isbel, contribute to the overall mix. 9 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718)387-0505; $20. (Sinagra)

BEBEL GILBERTO (Thursday) Brazilian music reaches out to the world with this double bill. Bebel Gilberto, the daughter of the definitive bossa nova singer Joao Gilberto, updates bossa nova with touches of electronics and substitutes her own ebullience for her father's preternatural coolness. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592; $30 to $40. (The 8 p.m. show is sold out.) (Pareles)

JACKOPIERCE (Tonight) This band's folky acoustic rock, which hinges on vocal harmonies, gained college coffeehouse popularity in the early 90's. Later the group went electric and then broke up, only to reunite in 2002. 8, B.B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)997-4144; $25 in advance, $29 at the door. (Sinagra)

JEWZAPALOOZA (Sunday) The Jewish Music and Heritage Festival closes with this full-day concert showcasing an array of Jewish music, food and culture. Musicians performing include the Orthodox breakbeat klezmerists Juez, the jazz bassist Avishai Cohen, the sacred-music explorers (and Oprah favorites) Joshua Nelson & the Kosher Gospel Singers, the local klezmer-rock band Golem, the psychedelic dervishes Pharaoh's Daughter and the politically minded rockers Blackfield. 11 a.m. to 9 p.m., Riverside Park, Riverside Drive at 72nd Street, Manhattan, www.oyhoo.com; free. (Sinagra)

ELTON JOHN (Tonight and tomorrow night) An earnest voice, sentimental or surreal lyrics and a piano style that can turn from Tin Pan Alley to gospel are the ingredients for Elton John's huge string of hits. 8, Madison Square Garden, (212)465-6741; $49.50 to $129.50. (Pareles)

LURA (Sunday) Raised in Portugal but of Cape Verdean descent, Lura sings the music of her Santiago Island ancestry. She concentrates on the West African-influenced batuku and funana styles, which are faster than the mornas popularized by Cesaria Evora. 7 p.m., Peter Norton Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212)864-5400; $26; students with ID, $15. (Sinagra)

MAXIMO PARK (Sunday) Another neo-post-punk band in a crowded fray, this energetic Newcastle five-piece fuses jagged hooks to clever enough lyrics. The members play here with the Cloud Room. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111; $14 (sold out).(Sinagra)

DELBERT MCCLINTON (Sunday) Delbert McClinton is the quintessential Texas roadhouse rocker, applying his well-traveled rasp to songs from the hard-loving intersections of blues, country and soul. 8 p.m., B.B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)997-4144; $42 in advance, $45 at the door. (Pareles)

NEW DEAL (Tonight and tomorrow night) This Toronto jam band plays a danceable brand of improvisatory rock that appeals to ravers and jazzers alike, incorporating beatboxing and house rhythms. It has collaborated recently with the singer Feist. 8:30, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111; $22 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sinagra)

PARTING THE WATERS: HURRICANE KATRINA BENEFIT (Tomorrow) The New Yorker Festival branches out to include a Hurricane Katrina benefit featuring New Orleans and Delta music and relevant readings. Musical performers will include Lou Reed, Elvis Costello, Woody Allen, Buckwheat Zydeco and the ReBirth Jazz Band. 7:30 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212)840-2824 or (212)545-7536; $50 to $250. Conde Nast Publications will match donations.(Sinagra)

PBS (Tomorrow) Broadcasting funk from New Orleans, PBS is the Funky Meters minus the keyboardist Art Neville; it includes George Porter Jr. on bass, Russell Batiste on drums and Brian Stoltz on guitar, with some guest musicians. They play here for New Orleans Musicians Hurricane Relief. 11 p.m., B.B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)997-4144; $20. (Pareles)

PERNICE BROTHERS, TIM FITE (Tonight) Possessed of one of the sexiest regular-guy voices in indie rock, Joe Pernice has been making charmingly dark, low-key pop for more than a decade. Tim Fite makes sample-based art-folk music drawing on obscure country and blues recordings. 9 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)230-0236; $15. (Sinagra)

RUPEE (Tonight) Rupee began his career as a dancehall toaster and gravitated to soca and calypso. His mix of soca and R&B modernizes the style, and the single ''Tempted to Touch'' fit in well recently on reggaeton radio. Midnight and 2 a.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212)243-4940; $22 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sinagra)

ASHLEE SIMPSON (Wednesday) Playing rocker to her sister Jessica's dance-pop princess, Ms. Simpson proved sassy enough to power the enjoyable rock songs conceived for her. Of course, her notorious lip-sync malfunction and spontaneous ''hoedown'' dance on ''Saturday Night Live'' slowed her meticulously meteoric rise a smidge. 8 p.m., Supper Club, 240 West 47th Street, Manhattan, (212)921-1940; $47.50. (Sinagra)

SUPERGRASS (Tuesday) This buoyant, hooky mid-90's Brit-pop band had a sound more glammy than Oasis's and heftier than Blur's. By late in the decade, it was tired out, but now seems to have found a new conduit to the old excitement. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212)533-2111; $25 in advance, $30 at the door ( sold out). (Sinagra)

ALLEN TOUSSAINT: BENEFIT FOR NEW ORLEANS (Sunday) The legendary songwriter, producer and pianist Allen Toussaint, rumored missing after Hurricane Katrina hit, performs brunch time shows for Musicares Hurricane Relief Fund. Noon, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212)239-6200; $30. (Sinagra)

DAR WILLIAMS (Thursday) This adorable coffeehouse singer-songwriter augments her sweet voice with that rare quality of seeming like a real person. With the unfortunately named Girlyman. 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212)840-2824 or (212)545-7536; $30 to $50. (Sinagra)

DWIGHT YOAKAM (Wednesday) Dwight Yoakam is a honky-tonk diehard, holding on to the Bakersfield country tradition of Buck Owens as he moans about the women who've broken his heart or done him wrong. His lyrics, which he recently published in book form, are models of concise storytelling; his songs find endless variations on classic honky-tonk forms, sometimes letting in a hint of folk-rock or Phil Spector. With Hannah McEuen. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212)777-6800; $35 to $40. (Pareles)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) This demure, gently swinging jazz pianist and sometime singer is back with a new Sunday afternoon program, ''Autumn in New York.'' Sunday at 2 p.m., Oak Room, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)419-9331; $30, with a $15 minimum. A $55 brunch (including cover) begins at noon. (Stephen Holden)

ANNIE ROSS (Wednesday) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 9:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212)265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

*ELAINE STRITCH (Tonight, tomorrow and Tuesday through Thursday nights) In a courageous and successful leap into the unknown, Ms. Stritch makes her cabaret debut at 80. Dispensing with her theatrical signature numbers, she weaves 16 songs new to her repertory into a funny running monologue of her adventures in and out of show business. 8:45, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212)744-1600; $105; $125 tonight and tomorrow. (Holden)

KT SULLIVAN AND MARK NADLER (Tonight and tomorrow night) ) The odd couple of cabaret offer a smart, zany survey of the life and lyrics of Dorothy Fields on her centenary. 9 and 11:30, Oak Room, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212)419-9331. Cover is $50; a $50 prix fixe dinner is required at the early shows tonight and tomorrow.(Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

BEN ALLISON NEW QUARTET (Wednesday) Mr. Allison, a bassist and composer, has a knack for assembling hardy and sophisticated ensembles; this one, his latest, includes Ron Horton on trumpet, Steve Cardenas on guitar and Mike Sarin on drums. 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7501; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Nate Chinen)RODRIGO AMADO (Wednesday) A baritone and alto saxophonist prominent in the free-improvising scene of his native Portugal, Mr. Amado works here with some of his American contemporaries: the trumpeter Herb Robertson, the bassist Ken Filiano and the drummer Lou Grassi. 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

THE BAD PLUS (Through Sunday) The pianist Ethan Iverson, the bassist Reid Anderson and the drummer David King irritated jazz purists a few years ago with a spate of irreverent cover tunes; on ''Suspicious Activity?'' (Columbia), they shift the focus to epic-sounding original songs. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

TIM BERNE (Tonight) With ''Feign'' (Screwgun), the alto saxophonist and composer Tim Berne continues to cultivate an unstable yet groovy approach to experimental chamber music; his bandmates are the slippery electric guitarist David Torn, the versatile keyboardist Craig Taborn and the dryly supple drummer Tom Rainey. 9:30 and 11:30, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; cover, $10. (Chinen)

PETER BROTZMANN TRIO (Tomorrow) Few modern saxophonists can sound as powerfully abrasive as Mr. Brotzmann; this group, with the comparably more mainstream rhythm team of Eric Revis on bass and Nasheet Waits on drums, might stir some melodic undercurrents. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7501; cover, $12. (Chinen)

REGINA CARTER GROUP (Tuesday through Oct. 2) Ms. Carter is unquestionably one of jazz's top violinists, equally comfortable with burnished romanticism and blazing post-bop; she's also a confident bandleader, as she'll demonstrate here. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232; cover, $25 to $30. (Chinen)

GEORGE COLLIGAN QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Colligan has built his solid sideman career on a rhythmically intrepid piano style; here he commands a surefooted ensemble with the saxophonist Steve Wilson, the bassist Buster Williams and the drummer Ralph Peterson. 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212)255-3626; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

LARRY CORYELL, VICTOR BAILEY AND LENNY WHITE (Through Sunday) Their new album, ''Electric'' (Chesky), works hard to deserve the moniker; it relies equally on Mr. Coryell's searing guitar, Mr. Bailey's blindingly proficient electric bass playing and Mr. White's earthy drumming. 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212)582-2121; cover, $27.50 to $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

*MARILYN CRISPELL TRIO (Wednesday) Ms. Crispell, a pianist long known for an aggressively atonal style, has lately been extravagantly lyrical; this trio, with the Danish saxophonist Lotte Ancher and the American drummer Andrew Cyrille, should hover somewhere between the two extremes. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212)358-7501; cover, $15; $12 in advance; with a one-drink minimum.(Chinen)

STEVE DAVIS sextet (Tonight and tomorrow night) Hard-bop is this trombonist's native tongue, but an apprenticeship with the keyboardist Chick Corea has attuned him more to texture; his band features the tenor saxophonist Eric Alexander and the vibraphonist Steve Nelson. 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212)885-7119; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

*DIET COKE WOMEN IN JAZZ FESTIVAL (Through Oct. 2) This laudable series shines a spotlight on female instrumentalists and vocalists. Highlights in the coming week include Sherrie Maricle's DIVA Orchestra, with the guest singer Ann Hampton Callaway, tonight and tomorrow; a postmodern hard-bop group led by the drummer Terri Lyne Carrington, on Monday; the singer and survivor Helen Merrill, on Tuesday; and a solo piano performance by Joanne Brackeen, on Thursday. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212) 258-9595, www.jalc.org; cover: $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

ARMEN DONELIAN QUINTET (Tomorrow) Mr. Donelian is a pianist with a crystalline touch but a penchant for avant-gardism; his band includes the trumpeter John Carlson and the tenor saxophonist Marc Mommaas. 9 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212)989-9319; cover, $14 ($9 for students), with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

SARA GAZAREK (Tuesday) On her debut album, ''Yours'' (Native Language), Ms. Gazarek brings fresh energy to a familiar repertory; she's a young singer whose preternatural gift is surpassed only by her vast potential. 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212)539-8778; cover, $15, with a $12 minimum. (Chinen)

JOHN HOLLENBECK'S CLAUDIA QUINTET (Sunday) With ''Semi-Formal'' (Cuneiform), this improvising chamber ensemble renews its lease on textural and often contrapuntal experimentalism; Mr. Hollenbeck's drumming is one color on a palette that also includes Chris Speed's clarinet and tenor saxophone, Ted Reichman's accordion and Matt Moran's vibraphone. 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212)989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

*KEITH JARRETT (Monday) Mr. Jarrett, one of jazz's best and most recognizable pianists, can still carry a hall with free-improvised and deeply expressive solo piano peregrinations; last year's live album, ''Radiance'' (ECM), provides a precedent but not a template for this concert, his first New York solo recital in a decade. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800; $45 to $100. (Chinen)

KIDD JORDAN/WILLIAM PARKER/HAMID DRAKE (Tomorrow) Boisterous free improvisation by Mr. Jordan, a New Orleans saxophone elder; Mr. Parker, a stalwart bassist; and Mr. Drake, a responsive and powerful drummer. 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177; cover, $10. (Chinen)

*KANSAS CITY FESTIVAL (Tonight and tomorrow night) In Rose Hall, the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra recreates the heyday of Midwest swing, with Count Basie's longtime tenor saxophonist Frank Wess and the wildly precocious pianist Eldar. In the Allen Room, the Kansas City-reared alto saxophonist Bobby Watson leads his Boogie-Woogie Jump Band. 8, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212)258-9595; $105.50 and $135.50. 7:30 p.m., Allen Room, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212)258-9595; $135. (Chinen)

KATHY KOSINS (Monday) On ''Vintage'' (Mahogany), Ms. Kosins's nonstandard choice of standards is almost as winsome as her easygoing, swinging style; here, as on the album, the singer is backed by a stellar band. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232; cover, $15. (Chinen)

OLIVER LAKE/JOHN HICKS BIG BAND (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Lake is an alto saxophonist with a robust and piercing sound; Mr. Hicks is a pianist with an assertively rhythmic style. Their collaboration in this large ensemble reflects shared affinities for an aggressive variety of post-bop. 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212)242-1063; cover, $15; members, $10. (Chinen)

JOHN LINDBERG QUARTET (Sunday) Mr. Lindberg, a bassist, has a talent for rigorous and imaginative compositions, as he demonstrates on the new album ''Winter Birds'' (Between the Lines); his quartet includes Baikida Carroll on trumpet, Steve Gorn on woodwinds and Susie Ibarra on drums and percussion. 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

DONNY McCASLIN GROUP (Wednesday) Mr. McCaslin has earned recent accolades for his sinewy, upward-surging saxophone solos in the Maria Schneider Orchestra; his own ensemble, which features the guitarist Ben Monder, more directly harnesses the rhythmic thrust of rock. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212)929-9883; cover, $10. (Chinen)

CHARLES McPHERSON QUARTET (Through Sunday) Charlie Parker serves as a clear model for Mr. McPherson, one of bebop's premier alto saxophonists; his well-pressed band includes Ronnie Matthews on piano, Peter Washington on bass and Lewis Nash on drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212)576-2232; cover, $25 to $30. (Chinen)

JASON MORAN AND THE BANDWAGON (Tuesday through Oct. 2) Mr. Moran is a bright pianist who favors jagged, delirious polyphony; his uncommonly cohesive group, the Bandwagon, features the earthy yet slippery rhythm section of Tarus Mateen, bassist, and Nasheet Waits, drummer. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212)255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MARK MURPHY (Wednesday through October 1) The cool and commanding Mark Murphy has been a musician's singer since the mid-1950's; his wiseacre quips occasionally give way to New Age platitudes these days, but the phrasing and vocal control are still intact. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212)581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

OTHER DIMENSIONS IN MUSIC (Wednesday) A free-improvising supergroup, composed of the trumpeter Roy Campbell, the multi-instrumentalist Daniel Carter, the bassist William Parker and the drummer Rashid Bakr. 8 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

WILLIAM PARKER QUARTET (Monday) Mr. Parker is a pillar, musically and morally, of avant-garde jazz culture; he plays here with the alto saxophonist Rob Brown, the trumpeter Lewis Barnes and the drummer Hamid Drake. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212)475-8592; cover, $10 at tables, with a $5 minimum, or $5 at the bar, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

TED POOR'S THIRD WHEEL (Tuesday) The drummer Ted Poor is a relative newcomer, but he has earned his place in progressive jazz circles; he features his own music in this trio with the trumpeter Ralph Alessi and the guitarist Ben Monder. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Koze Lounge, 676 Fifth Avenue, at 20th Street, Park Slope, (718)832-8282; cover, $7. (Chinen)RANDY SANDKE AND FRIENDS (Sunday) Mr. Sandke, a fine trumpeter best known for buoyant traditionalism, assembles a cadre of compatriots, including Ken Peplowski, clarinetist; Wayne Escoffery, tenor saxophonist; and Carolyn Leonhardt, singer. 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212)255-3626; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

TRAVIS SULLIVAN'S BJORKESTRA (Tonight) A big band with a muse, a method and a strong stable of young musicians. 8:30 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212)864-5400; $21; students, $18. (Chinen)

OHAD TALMOR'S NEWSREEL (Wednesday and Thursday) The saxophonist Ohad Talmor features his own provocative compositions in this new ensemble, with the trumpeter Shane Endsley, the keyboardist Jacob Sacks, the bassist Matt Pavolka and the drummer Dan Weiss. Wednesday at 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718)965-9177; cover, $8. Thursday at 10 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718)218-6934; no cover. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

OPERA

'ARIADNE AUF NAXOS' (Tomorrow and Thursday) The soprano Deborah Voigt has won so much acclaim for her portrayal of the title role of Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos'' that she has dubbed her career ''Ariadne Inc.'' She has been a Met favorite in the role. But there are other Ariadne's, and tomorrow afternoon the Met will give the dusky-voiced soprano Violeta Urmana a chance. The splendid mezzo-soprano Susan Graham sings the Composer, and the vibrant tenor Jon Villars makes his company debut as Bacchus. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. and Thursday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000; $26 to $220. (Anthony Tommasini)

'LA BOHEME' (Wednesday) Puccini's most popular opera has returned to heavy rotation at the Met in Franco Zeffirelli's lavish, audience-pleasing production. Hei-Kyung Hong sings the part of Mimi, and Roberto Aronica lends his sturdy tenor to the role of Rodolfo. The rest of the cast includes Alexandra Deshorties, Vladimir Chernov, Sebastian Catana and Richard Bernstein. Philippe Auguin conducts. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000; $26 to $320. (Jeremy Eichler)

'CAPRICCIO' (Tomorrow) Strauss's final opera, ''Capriccio'' poses an aesthetic question: In opera, which is more important, the words or the music? The issue is dramatized through a love triangle between Flamand, a composer, and Olivier, a poet, who are vying for the affection of a young widow, Countess Madeleine, in 18th-century France. For all its ingenuity and musical refinement, the opera can seem chatty and inert. To lend the work more immediacy, the director Stephen Lawless of this New York City Opera production updates the story to the mid-20th century and moves the setting from the countess's intimate salon to the inside of her fancy private opera house. Though the updating idea has its merits, Mr. Lawless turns the comedic scenes, which are already jarring, into laugh riots. Still, the cast, headed by the soprano Pamela Armstrong as the countess, is greatly appealing, and George Manahan conducts an assured and supple performance. 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500; $16 to $120. (Tommasini)

'FALSTAFF' (Tonight and Monday night) These days the Welsh bass-baritone Bryn Terfel owns the title role of ''Falstaff,'' Verdi's miraculous final opera. Mr. Terfel brings his portrayal back to the Met tonight. With James Levine, who reveres the score, conducting, and a strong cast, including Matthew Polenzani and Heidi Grant Murphy as the young lovers Fenton and Nannetta, this revival of Franco Zeffirelli's production looks promising. 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000; $26 to $205. (Tommasini)

'MADAMA BUTTERFLY' (Tomorrow and Thursday) Mark Lamos's production of Puccini's Japanese classic is one of New York City Opera's best. And there's a lot else to like here, from the intermittently good conducting of Ari Pelto to Jake Gardner'sSharpless; but Brandon Jovanovich and Jee Hyun Lim don't quite have the voices to pull off the two leading roles. Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30; Thursday night at 7:30; New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)870-5570; $45 to $120. (Anne Midgette)

'MANON' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) Jean-Pierre Ponnelle's production of Massenet's tragedy, absent from the Met since 2001, returns with Renee Fleming as the conflicted Manon, and Marcelo Alvarez as a passionate, and unusually well-rounded, des Grieux. Both are in fine voice, and have the support of a well-balanced cast, as well as vibrant conducting by Jesus Lopez-Cobos. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212)362-6000; $42 to $320 on Saturday; $26 to $320 on Tuesday. (Allan Kozinn)

'PATIENCE' (Tonight) New York City Opera's jokey and brightly colored version of Gilbert and Sullivan's ''Patience'' has the distinct virtues of Michael Ball and Kevin Burdette in key roles. 8, New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)870-5570; $45 to $120.(Bernard Holland)

'TOSCA' (Tomorrow and Sunday) Diminutive, venerable, and unbowed, the Amato Opera, a salty old-school denizen of New York, is presenting an even more venerable standby as the first production of its 58th season: Puccini's ''Tosca.'' Tomorrow night at 7:30; Sunday afternoon at 2:30; Amato Opera Theater, 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212)228-8200; $30; 65+, students with ID and children, $25. (Midgette)

'IL VIAGGIO A REIMS' (Sunday) Conceived as an over-the-top tribute to a leading politician, Rossini's ''Viaggio'' is a wacky, unserious froth of delightful bel canto singing and slapstick; and with 10 principal roles, it's a chance for the company to show off its young voices -- like those of Cheryl Evans, Maria Kanyova, Daniel Mobbs and Marcus DeLoach -- led by the capable George Manahan. 1:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212)870-5570; $45 to $120.(Midgette)

CLASSICAL MUSIC

AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Sunday) After devoting two weekends in August to the theme of ''Aaron Copland and His World,'' the American Symphony Orchestra continues exploring the roots and offshoots of this country's native classical tradition. Leon Botstein leads a program titled ''Inventing America,'' featuring music from the late 1920's and early 30's: Roger Sessions' Symphony No.1, Randall Thomson's Symphony No.2 and Ernest Bloch's ''America, an Epic Rhapsody.'' 3 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500; $25 to $53. (Eichler)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Sunday and Thursday) Great views and typically fresh performances help make this floating concert hall one of the city's more inviting settings for chamber music. Tonight, a piano trio (David Salness, violin; Evelyn Elsing, cello; Rita Sloan, piano) plays music by Brahms, Schumann and Shulamit Ran. Tomorrow night and Sunday, a second trio surveys more small-ensemble works by Mozart, Schumann and Tchaikovsky. Thursday, it's a piano recital by Valida Rassoulova-Suk featuring Beethoven, Chopin, Scarlatti and others. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 7:30; Sunday at 4 p.m. Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718)624-2083; $35. (Eichler)

WENDY BRYN HARMER (Sunday) The Marilyn Horne Foundation, which does essential work offering young singers opportunities to perform song recitals, begins this season's ''On Wings of Song'' series with a young soprano, Wendy Bryn Harmer. Her program is titled ''Women in Love,'' which could cover a lot of territory, but in this case involves songs by Donizetti, Griffes, Rachmaninoff and Strauss. 3 p.m., St. Bartholomew's Chapel, Park Avenue at 51st Street, (212)378-0248; $20; 65+, $15; students, free. (Tommasini)

JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) The pianist William Wolfram and the violinist Stefan Milenkovich are the guests of this feisty ensemble, which in the spirit of its founder, Jens Nygaard, offers programs that combine oddities and major works. This time the fare includes works by Vanhal, Hoffmeister and Martinu, as well as Dvorak's Piano Quintet. 2 and 7:30 p.m., Good Shepherd Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street, Manhattan, (212)799-1259; $10 to $25. (Kozinn)

MARTIN KASIK (Tuesday) A young Czech pianist who made a strong impression five years ago in New York with a recital presented by Young Concert Artists, Martin Kasik returns for a Tuesday matinee program at Merkin Concert Hall. He will play works by Martinu, Janacek, Novak and Mussorgsky. 2 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212)501-3330; $12.50. (Tommasini)

LONDON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Wednesday) The first of three concerts by this distinguished orchestra led by Sir Colin Davis offers Verdi's barnburner of a liturgical piece, the Requiem. Concert is at 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)721-6500; $35 to $75. (Holland)

MOSTLY MODERN (Monday) The Austrian Cultural Forum describes its festival as ''music from the age of anxiety.'' In this concert, the cellist Ingrid Wagner-Kraft and the pianist Josef Mayr survey works by Beethoven, Gruber, Schulhoff and Zeisl, among others. At 8 p.m., Austrian Cultural Forum, 11 East 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212)319-5300, ext. 222; free. (Eichler)

SOHEIL NASSERI (Tuesday) This young Californian pianist has both a magnificent technique and an inventive interpretive spirit, assets that served him well in the early installments of the Beethoven cycle that he completes this season. In the first of his three concerts, he offers the three Opus 10 and two Opus 49 Sonatas, as well as the ''Waldstein'' (Op. 53). At 8 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800; $33 to $45; students, $10. (Kozinn)

NEW JUILLIARD ENSEMBLE (Tomorrow) Composers sometimes complain that they can get premieres of new work, but that second or third performances are much harder to come by. With this problem no doubt in mind, Joel Sachs leads his intrepid players in a program of works already given premieres by the ensemble within the last decade. The composers include Suren Zakarian, Jack Beeson, Kenji Bunch, Valentin Bibik and John Psathas. At 8 p.m., Peter Jay Sharp Theater, the Juilliard School, 155 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212)769-7406; free tickets have been distributed, but a standby line for seating begins at 7:30. (Eichler)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Today through Thursday) The top of the Philharmonic season is certainly keyboard-heavy: Evgeny Kissin played Beethoven on opening night, but now the young Chinese firebrand Lang Lang has taken over, offering the Chopin Piano Concerto No.1, as an elaborate prelude to Lorin Maazel's rendering of the Mahler First Symphony. On Thursday, the pianist Jonathan Biss takes over the solo spot to play Mozart's Concerto in A (K. 488), and Mr. Maazel leads Elliott Carter's ''Holiday Overture'' and two works by Strauss. Today at 11 a.m.; tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m.; Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212)875-5656; $33 to $86 today, and $26 to $92 on Thursday. Tomorrow and Tuesday are sold out, but returned tickets may be available at the box office. (Kozinn)

NATASHA TARASOVA (Tonight) Born in Russia, trained in Ukraine, now resident in Mexico, this mezzo-soprano likes to include her own compositions on her programs. William Hicks is the piano accompanist. 8, Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800; $25. (Midgette)

NATIONAL PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA OF HUNGARY (Sunday) In honor of the 60th anniversary of Bela Bartok's death, the Hungarian Cultural Center is simulcasting the end of an all-Bartok concert, with the Concerto for Orchestra, live from the Palace of the Arts in Budapest to -- in fine immigrant tradition -- the Lower East Side. Sunday night at 6 (doors open at 5:15), Orensanz Center for the Arts, 172 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (646)229-5509; free admission, though there is a suggested donation of $15. (Midgette)

*ST. PETERSBURG PHILHARMONIC (Thursday) In some crucial ways, you haven't really heard the big works of Tchaikovsky and Rachmaninoff until you've heard them played by this great orchestra under its longtime music director, Yuri Temirkanov. Here, to open the Carnegie season officially, they offer a couple of the biggest, Tchaikovsky's Fifth Symphony and Rachmaninoff's Third Piano Concerto, with Yefim Bronfman as the burly soloist. 7 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212)247-7800; $89. (James R. Oestreich)

KENT TRITLE (Sunday) Probably best known as a choir director these days, Kent Tritle is also a superb organist. His program looks broadly at the instrument's repertory, with works by Bach, Marchand, de Grigny, Buxtehude, Mendelssohn, Franck, Jongen and John Corigliano. 4 p.m., Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, Park Avenue at 84th Street, (212)288-2520; $20, students and 65+, $15. (Kozinn)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

*BLACK GRACE (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) This modern-dance troupe from New Zealand, composed of six male dancers of Pacific Island and Maori descent, and the work they perform are gutsy, funny and strangely, bracingly spiritual. Through Oct. 9. Tonight and Thursday at 7 p.m.; tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 5 p.m. New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212)239-6200 or www.newvictory.org; $10 to $30.(Jennifer Dunning)

RICHARD DANIELS (Thursday through Oct. 2) Apparently, these days even the immortals grow old. Mr. Daniels reimagines Stravinsky's ''Apollo & the Muses'' with two gods, one youthful, one older. In ''Telling Tales,'' the choreographer collaborated with various partners to produce a dance diary. The pianist Nurit Tilles accompanies throughout. 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212)674-8194; $20.(Claudia La Rocco)

DIXON PLACE: 'BODY BLEND' (Tuesday) This installment of the series features four choreographers, chosen by the curator Isabel Lewis, who are making names for themselves in cutting-edge new dance. They are Charlotte Gibbons, Beth Kurkjian, Jamie Philbert and Arturo Vidich. 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, SoHo, (212)219-0736 or www.dixonplace.org; $12 or T.D.F.; students and 65+, $10. (Dunning)

*FALL FOR DANCE (Tuesday through Oct. 2) The second annual installment of City Center's wildly successful dance showcase, offering five diverse companies or artists each night for $10 a ticket. What makes this series unusual is the high profile of so many of the companies involved, and the range of dance styles on display. Tuesday's program, for instance, offers Black Grace, the all-male New Zealand/Polynesian modern-dance company; Bill Irwin; the Ballet National de l'Opera de Lyon; Jody Sperling; and Philadanco. On Wednesday and Thursday, the Limon Dance Company, the Houston Ballet, American Ballet Theater, Urban Bush Women, Keigwin & Company and Eva Yerbabuena will be among those on hand, with more to come through Oct. 2. 8 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212)581-1212 or www.nycitycenter.org. (John Rockwell)

*FIRST ANNUAL SHADY CORNERS AMERICAN MAVERICK PERFORMING ARTS FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday) A little off the beaten Manhattan dance track, this new festival, directed by Pooh Kaye, is notable for its lineup of genuinely maverick artists, among them Mary Overlie, Eva Karczag, Sally Silvers and Kathy Rose in different programs daily. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sun day at 5 p.m., Upper Susquehanna Cultural Center, 7 North Main Street, at Route 28, Milford, N.Y., (607)397-7510 or www.shadycorners.com; $12; students and 65+, $8; children, free. (Dunning)

MICHAEL FLATLEY'S 'CELTIC TIGER' (Tuesday) This Chicago-born progenitor of all things glitzy that are related to Irish step dancing -- ''Riverdance,'' ''Lord of the Dance'' and ''Feet of Flames'' -- returns with his new ''Celtic Tiger'' in its United States debut, leading off a national tour. And he's back on the boards himself. 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212)307-7171 or www.celtictigerlive.com: $39.50 to $89.50. (Rockwell)

BETH GILL/KAKUYA OHASHI (Thursday and Friday) The Fall for Dance festival isn't the only $10 ticket in town. Tokyo meets Brooklyn at the Kitchen, with Ms. Gill's ''wounded giant'' and Mr. Ohashi's ''Wish You Were Here.'' While Ms. Gill looks outward, Mr. Ohashi, in his American debut, examines interior neurosis in contemporary Tokyo. 8 p.m., the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)255-5793, thekitchen.org. (La Rocco)

MARTITA GOSHEN'S EARTHWORKS (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Goshen's new ''Breathing Water,'' performed by a cast that includes Christian Holder, is a site-specific piece inspired by the pristine stillness of St. Mark's Church. 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street , East Village, (212)674-8194; $15. (Dunning)

HUMAN FUTURE DANCE CORPS (Tuesday through Oct. 1) ''No Change'' or ''freedom is a psycho-kinetic skill'' might be worth it for the name alone. The Bessie Award-winning choreographer DD Dorvillier collaborated with artists in several countries to create this solo. The ''nomadic'' process led her to this industrial recording studio in Brooklyn. 8:30 p.m., Context Studios, 1 North 12th Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (212)674-8194, www.contextnyc.com; $12 (La Rocco)

*BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE DANCE COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow night) The final two of the three world premiere performances of Mr. Jones's full-evening ''Blind Date,'' which addresses the subject of patriotism and its uses and misuses. 7:30 p.m., Montclair State University, Alexander Kasser Theater, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road, Montclair, N.J., (973)655-5112 or www.montclair.edu/kasser; $35. (Rockwell)

JUILLIARD DANCE ENSEMBLE (Wednesday through Oct. 2) Eliot Feld's new ''Sir Isaac's Apples'' is billed as another of his ''ramp dances.'' The vision of the Juilliard's young dancers tumbling down like ripe Deliciouses is entrancing. The piece, commissioned in celebration of the school's centennial, is set to Steve Reich's ''Drumming,'' performed by the Juilliard Percussion Ensemble. Wednesday through Oct. 1 at 8 p.m.; Oct. 2 at 3 p.m., Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 155 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212)769-7406; $20; students and 65+, $10; T.D.F. accepted. The dance, theater and music conservatory's rich history is on view in ''The Juilliard School, 1905-2005,'' a free exhibition that will run through Jan. 14 at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212)870-1630 or www.nypl.org. (Dunning)

NOEMIE LAFRANCE'S 'AGORA' (Tonight and tomorrow night) An abandoned, perhaps too huge old city pool is the latest setting for Ms. Lafrance's imaginative site-specific explorations. 8, McCarren Pool, Lorimer Street, between Driggs Avenue and Bayard Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718)302-5024 or www.sensproduction.org; $25 and $40; students and 65+, $18; children under 12 with an adult, $7. (Dunning)

ADITI MANGALDAS DANCE COMPANY (Thursday and Friday) This Kathak-inspired contemporary Indian company gives a preview at the Fall for Dance Festival on Wednesday, with the full American debut of ''Footprints on Water'' at the Asia Society. Expect explosive speed, virtuosic footwork and lively rhythms. 8 p.m., 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212)517-2742, asiasociety.org; $20. (La Rocco)

JENNIFER MONSON (Tonight and tomorrow night) Not content with following the migratory paths of osprey and gray whales in her recent ''Bird Brain'' project, Ms. Monson will get her audiences migrating through the building in her new ''Flight of Mind.'' 7:30 (preshow event at 6:30), Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)924-0077; $15. (Dunning)

JENNIFER MULLER/THE WORKS (Tuesday through Sunday) The company celebrates 30 years with ''Essentially Muller,'' presenting classics like ''The Spotted Owls'' and the recent ''Flowers,'' as well as several premieres. Tuesday gala at 7 p.m.; Wednesday through Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m.; Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea; (212)242-0800; $42. (La Rocco)

NATYA DANCE THEATeR (Tomorrow) This troupe specializes in Bharata Natyam, the South Indian classical dance tradition, using rhythmic footwork and mime. The Chicago-based company of nine dancers and musicians from India on flute, vocals and percussion is celebrating its 30th year. 8 p.m., Peter Norton Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212)864-5400; $32. ( La Rocco)

NEW YORK BAROQUE DANCE COMPANY (Tonight and Sunday) New York's premiere company devoted to the re-creation of dance from the 18th century and before presents a program saluting Marie Salle, who died 250 years ago and helped French dance evolve from the court to the theater. 8 tonight, 4 p.m. Sunday, Florence Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212)307-4100, $30. (Rockwell)

*PHILADANCO (Tonight through Sunday) These sleek, propulsive dancers are performing work by Ronald K. Brown, Lynne Taylor-Corbett and Jawola Willa Jo Zollar, and Geoffrey Holder's seldom seen ''Blues and the Bible: 'Genesis.''' Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m.; Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212)242-0800 or www.joyce.org; $36. (Dunning)

TAMAR ROGOFF: 'CHRISTINA OLSON: AMERICAN MODEL' (Tonight through Oct. 2) Claire Danes will star as the disabled woman Andrew Wyeth made famous in his painting ''Christina's World.'' Tonight and Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8; tomorrow at 4 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 4 p.m.; P.S. 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212)352-3101 or www.ps122.org; $20; students and 65+, $15. (Dunning)

*GLEN RUMSEY DANCE PROJECT (Tonight through Sunday night) A former Merce Cunningham dancer and the drag artist known as Shasta Cola, Mr. Rumsey has created a magical, scrappy new piece, ''ignored in my heaven.'' It blends his dance and drag experiences with his dream and travel journals; intriguing excerpts from those are murmured throughout Andy Russ's mix of sounds and music. 8, Location One, 26 Greene Street, SoHo, (212)334-3347 or www.locationone.org; $12. (Dunning)

*'WATCHING LIGETI MOVE: THREE BALLETS BY CHRISTOPER WHEELDON' (Wednesday, next Friday and Oct. 1) To inaugurate its season and a festival devoted to the music of Gyorgy Ligeti, the Miller Theater will present dancers from the New York City Ballet and the San Francisco Ballet in three works choreographed by Mr. Wheeldon to Mr. Ligeti's music and never before presented in one program. 8 p.m., Miller Theater, Columbia University, 2960 Broadway, at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212)854-7799 or www.millertheatre.com.(Rockwell)

KRIOTA WILLBERG/DURA MATER (Tonight through Oct. 8) In her ambitious-sounding new multimedia work, ''Bentfootes,'' Ms. Willberg tells the story of 200 years of dance by the downtown choreographer Susan Bentfoote and her family. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 8, Dixon Place at University Settlement, 184 Eldridge Street, Lower East Side, (212)219-0736 or www.dixonplace.org; $10 to 15; T.D.F. accepted on Thursdays. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'OBSESSIVE DRAWING,' through March 19. In the museum's first ''emerging talent'' show, one of the five artists selected is 83, lives in a home for the elderly in Pennsylvania and stopped painting two years ago because of failing eyesight. Overall, the work in the exhibition is abstract and spare, giving the problematic ''outsider'' category a new spin. 45 West 53rd Street, (212)265-1040. (Holland Cotter)

*BROOKLYN MUSEUM: LUCE CENTER FOR AMERICAN ART VISIBLE STORAGE/STUDY CENTER Sleek vitrines house 1,500 objects from four departments, representing 15 centuries of art and design of the Americas. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718)638-5000. (Roberta Smith)

GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'RUSSIA!,' through Jan. 11. This survey of nine centuries of Russian art ranges from 13th-century religious icons to a smattering of 21st-century works, achieving its astounding effect without resorting to a single egg, or anything else, by Faberge. It immerses us in two enormous, endlessly fascinating narratives: the history of painting and the history of Russia itself, forming a remarkable tribute to the endurance of the medium and the country, and the inescapable interconnectedness of art and life. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212)423-3600. (Smith)

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE BISHOP JADES,' through Feb. 12. Jade has been treasured since ancient times, though the almost preposterously exquisite objects on display in the Met's reinstalled galleries for Chinese decorative arts date from the 18th century, when the Qing dynasty (1644-1911) brought Chinese jade work to a peak of virtuosity. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212)535-7710. (Cotter)

EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'THE (S) FILES/THE SELECTED FILES 05,' through Jan. 29. The definition of what ''Latino art'' means is changing in a post-identity-politics time, and this modest biennial, drawn mostly from unsolicited proposals submitted by artists in the greater New York area, is an indicator of what that change looks like. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, (212)831-7272. (Cotter)

MUSEUM OF BIBLICAL ART: 'THE NEXT GENERATION: CONTEMPORARY EXPRESSIONS OF FAITH,' through Nov. 13. Works in this juried show of artists who belong to the organization Christians in the Visual Arts range from traditional paintings and sculptures to an interactive video and photo documentation of a shamanistic performance in the woods. Ambitious, optically captivating collages by Mary Fielding McCleary and Anita Breitenberg Naylor are among the few pieces that exceed familiar generic limitations. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street, (212)408-1500. (Ken Johnson)

BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS: 'AIM 25/ARTIST IN THE MARKETPLACE,' through Oct. 2. This show is the culminating event of an annual 12-week museum residency that focuses on the mechanics of career development. The work is as diverse as the backgrounds of the more than 30 artists, who all live in New York, though many were born elsewhere, including Brazil, Croatia, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, Libya, Mexico and the Philippines. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718)681-6000.(Cotter)

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'NEW YORK CHANGING: DOUGLAS LEVERE REVISITS BERENICE ABBOTT'S NEW YORK,' through Nov. 13 . During the 1930's, the Modernist photographer Berenice Abbott photographed the architectural fabric of New York City with a keen eye for contrasts of new and old. Between 1997 and 2003, Douglas Levere returned to the scenes that she photographed and photographed them again. Seeing 50 of his paired with her originals is a fascinating education in how things change. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212)534-1672. (Johnson)

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'FIRST AMERICAN ART,' through April 9. That American Indian art can provide the same aesthetic and emotional pleasure as European and American Modernism is the premise of this show, made up of 200 objects from the Charles and Valerie Diker Collection, and it affirms American Indian art's worthy aesthetic place in world culture. 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212)514-3700. (Grace Glueck)

NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: JEAN HELION, through Oct. 9. Helion's conversion, around 1940, from a suave, smartly synthetic mode of geometric abstraction to a like-minded figurative style doesn't put him in a league with great 20th-century apostates like Giacometti, Picabia or Guston. Still, he produced a weirdly fascinating body of work that influenced Americans before and after World War II. This meager show does not give a full account of his strengths or weaknesses, but is well worth a look. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212)369-4880. (Smith)

QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'DOWN THE GARDEN PATH: THE ARTIST'S GARDEN AFTER MODERNISM,' through Nov. 6. This big, messy and uneven show, still a thought-provoking one for patient and interested viewers, surveys how artists like Vito Acconci, Ian Hamilton Finlay, Mel Chin, Ghada Amer, Stan Douglas and many more have cultivated gardens in fantasy and in reality. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718)592-9700.(Johnson)

* STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'SCRATCH: 2004-2005 ARTISTS-IN-RESIDENCE: WILLIAM CORDOVA, MICHAEL QUEENLAND AND MARC ANDRE ROBINSON,' through Oct. 23 . Rap, religion, Minimalism and Malcolm X all figure in this intricate, multilayered show of work by the three young residents, organized by the museum's associate curator, Christine Y. Kim. 144 West 125th Street, (212)864-4500. (Cotter)WHITNEY MUSEUM: 'REMOTE VIEWING,' through Oct. 9. The vast information overload the world struggles with -- scientific theory, technological data, geopolitical facts, historical material and on and on -- is whipped into visual cosmologies by eight painters of widely different approaches and sensibilities. If the premise is fuzzy, the show has some sharp art., 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212)570-3600 (Glueck)

*WHITNEY MUSEUM: ROBERT SMITHSON, through Oct. 23. Who knows whether Smithson is the most influential American postwar artist, as this show claims. Consisting mostly of drawings, photographs and films (he didn't make that many sculptures, not ones that could fit into a museum, anyway), this is the first full-scale overview of him in the country. It is consequently dry but still compelling testimony to a great exuberance cut drastically short when Smithson died at 35 in a plane crash in 1973. (See above.) (Michael Kimmelman)

WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART AT ALTRIA: 'PAST PRESENCE: CHILDHOOD AND MEMORY,' through Oct. 13. This modestly resonant show of works relating to juvenile experience presents a glass cabinet filled with 2,000 miniature white ceramic vessels by Charles LeDray; small, finely drawn, photo-based pictures of children by Peggy Preheim; drawings copied from hunting manuals by Robert Beck; and a politically suggestive chalkboard drawing by Gary Simmons. 120 Park Avenue, at 42nd Street, (917)663-2453. (Johnson)

Galleries: Uptown

MAURICE FREEDMAN: 'A RETROSPECTIVE' Though his paintings are not widely recognized today, Freedman (1904-85) enjoyed considerable success in pre-Abstract Expressionist New York for engagingly blending influences of Max Beckmann and Marsden Hartley. D. Wigmore, 22 East 76th Street, (212) 794-2128, through Sept. 30. (Johnson)

Galleries: 57th Street

'BIRTH OF A CULTURE: 60'S AND 70'S SURF PHOTOGRAPHY BY LEROY GRANNIS' Big, new color prints of surfing action shot during the sport's golden age by a photographer who earned major awards for his work for surfing magazines and initiation into the International Surfing Hall of Fame. Bonni Benrubi, 41 East 57th Street, (212)888-6007, through Oct. 1. (Johnson)

'INTRODUCTIONS' Three solo minishows: oblique, conceptually evocative photographs by Tim Davis; lurid and juicy paintings of ornate theater interiors by Emi Avora; and diverse drawings and photographs, some funny, some poetic, by Barry Ratoff. Greenberg Van Doren, 730 Fifth Avenue, (212)445-0444, through Sept. 30. (Johnson)

'FREDERICK SOMMER AT 100' This show economically surveys the career of one of America's most interesting if not best-known photographers. Sommer worked ingeniously in the space between Westonesque formalism and Surrealist fantasy and horror. Pace/MacGill, 32 East 57th Street, (212)759-7999, through Oct. 1. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

DENNIS ADAMS: 'MAKE DOWN' This brainy political artist presents a video in which he uses film stills from the movie ''Battle of Algiers'' to wipe dark green makeup off his face and body. It's about terrorism, gender, masking and unmasking. Kent, 541 West 25th Street, (212)627-3680, through Oct. 16. (Johnson)

ANN AGEE: 'BOXING IN THE KITCHEN' A ceramicist with a playful and not too fussy touch, Ms. Agee has created a whimsical, tabletop landscape in which painted terra-cotta representations of friends and family members in different sorts of costumes cavort among cartoonish pink rock formations. P.P.O.W., 555 West 25th Street, (212)647-1044, through Oct. 8. (Johnson)

'ASK THE DUST': JEDEDIAH CAESAR, CASE CALKINS, PATRICK HILL A substantial show featuring three young Los Angeles sculptors who pour, cast and stain their way to works that negotiate interesting truces between 1970's Process Art sculpture and 60's Formalist painting. Sheets of jagged glass, mounds of high-tech detritus and stacked balloons figure in the works, along with purple wood, white resin and pigmented plaster. Figuring out what was done and in which order is part of the fun. Everything has a fresh intelligence and an occasionally scary but affecting sense of precariousness. D'Amerlio Terras, 525 West 22nd Street, (212)352-9460, through Oct. 1. (Smith)

LAURA BATTLE Mathematically patterned spots and dots combine with fields of loose painterly abstraction in Ms. Battle's cosmically suggestive paintings and watercolors. Lohin Geduld, 531 West 25th Street, (212)675-2656, through Oct. 8. (Johnson)

*TOM BURCKHARDT: 'FULL STOP' A painter of eclectically layered abstractions has produced a surprising environmental installation: a slightly old-fashioned, fully equipped painter's studio made of brown corrugated cardboard and black paint. Caren Golden, 539 West 23rd Street, (212)727-8304, through Oct. 15. (Johnson)

ADAM CVIJANOVIC: 'LOVE POEM (TEN MINUTES AFTER THE END OF GRAVITY)' With a deft, representational touch, Mr. Cvijanovic has painted an expansive, airy mural depicting what could be a scene in a Spielberg movie: a Los Angeles suburb that appears to have been violently uprooted and elevated into the sky. Bellwether, 134 10th Avenue, near 18th Street, (212)929-5959, through Oct. 15. (Johnson)

IAN HARTSHORNE: 'IF YOU GO DOWN TO THE WOODS TODAY' This English landscape painter constructs moody images of vacation houses in woodsy settings. Alterations reflecting digital manipulations and distortions of his photographic sources add to the dreamy and slightly ominous effect. Rare, 521 West 26th Street, (212)268-1520, through Oct. 1. (Johnson)

'I'M A CHILD OF DIVORCE GIMME A BREAK' The clear leader for best title of the moment. This exhibition, featuring media-saturated collages and sculptures by Michael St. John, and single works by 10 others, is worth a visit, too. Highlights include a sweet , glossy cartoon painting of a hippopotamus by Adrian Ting; a tenderly painted portrait of a cherubic demon by Elizabeth Olbert; a painterly Pop-style picture of a Bromo Seltzer bottle from 1984 by Walter Robinson; and aggressively physical abstract paintings by Suzanne McClelland, Gary Stephan and Josh Smith. Cynthia Broan, 546 West 29th Street, (212)760-0809, through Oct. 8. (Johnson)

'INTERSTATE' Organized by the artist Adam McEwen, ''Interstate'' continues last summer's Boys in Black trend of smart, dystopic group shows that rage against the status quo with counterculture bravado but include far too few artists of the opposite sex. However, the selection here tempers the summer's enthusiastic machismo with a more thoughtful and nuanced examination of the traffic between different realms, whether sexual, artistic, topographical or political. Nicole Klagsbrun, 526 West 26th Street, (212)243-3335, through Oct. 1. (Smith)

*PHILIP JONES GRIFFITHS For half a century, this documentary photographer has been placing himself squarely in harm's way to record military violence. His pictures of the American war in Vietnam, which make up a substantial part of this show, amount to one of the great tragic portraits of their time, and are required viewing in ours. Denise Bibro Fine Art Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, fourth floor, (212)647-7030, through Oct. 1. (Cotter)

LAURA LARSON: 'APPARITION' For mysterious reasons, a lot of people these days are interested in photography of the supernatural. Ms. Larson creates rich color photographs of forest interiors and rooms in an abandoned psychiatric asylum in which wisps of smoke or mist suggest spiritual presences. Lennon, Weinberg, 514 West 25th Street, (212)941-0012, through Oct. 8. (Johnson)

'MUD' This exceptional four-artist show of small sculpture features lively, insouciant ceramics by the painter Joanne Greenbaum; crusty, off-white ceramics by Elliott Levine that look like ancient artifacts; cartoonish sculptures about modern machines by Aga Ousseinov; and rough, semiabstract sculptures in Styrofoam and papier mache, alluding to landscapes and furniture, by Yuh-Shioh Wong. Dinter, 547 West 27th Street, (212)947-2818, through Oct. 29. (Johnson)

DANICA PHELPS: 'WAKE' In her third solo show, this diligent Neo-Conceptualist keeps on keeping track in charts that record daily expenditures of time and money and in adept but similarly rotelike line drawings that show her bathing. The effect is mesmerizing but feels more and more like an interesting prelude to something completely different and less controlled. Zach Feuer Gallery (LFL), 530 West 24th Street, (212)989-7720, through Oct. 1. (Smith)

*MONIQUE PRIETO AND LYNDA BENGLIS Ms. Prieto has, in effect, boarded over her abstract paintings with rough-hewn monolithic letters quoting Samuel Pepys's famous diary. Both the wordiness and the klunkiness are a bit familiar, but extracting Pepys's phrases, which are all deliberately disembodied in reference, can be strangely satisfying. In ''The Graces,'' Ms. Benglis continues to evoke figures by other means, in this case three shimmering stacks of vaselike forms made of heavily textured, lavender-tinted resin. The material is perfect for the process-oriented Ms. Benglis, even if her current applications are similar to the work of Andrew Lord and Beverly Semmes. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, (212)242-7727, through Oct. 15. (Smith)

'BILL RICE: THE VIEW FROM 13 EAST 3RD' The New York artist Bill Rice has been pioneeringly busy in so many disciplines over the last five decades, including writing, film and theater, that his art has been only sporadically visible. This small show is a chance to catch up with some of his paintings and collages from the 1960's onward. Mitchell Algus Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, second floor, (212)242-6242 , through Oct. 8. (Cotter)

Other Galleries

GROUP SHOW This four-man show includes prints from the 1970's by Robert Rauschenberg and studies in popular iconography by Matt Mullican. The main interest, however, is in a series of large photographic collages by John Baldessari that play with visual rhymes and puns, and examples of the simulated Minimalist paintings called ''Surrogates'' that Allan McCollum started making more than 25 years ago. Brooke Alexander, 59 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212)925-4338, through Oct. 1. (Johnson)

SIMON MARTIN: 'WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON' Working against the grain of more flamboyant depictions of museums in recent art, this short video meditation on their ambiguities is a minor masterpiece of poetic discretion as well as the New York debut of a British artist known for keeping a low profile. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street, West Village, (212)924-4212, through Oct. 15. (Smith)

OHAD MEROMI: 'CYCLOPS' The jarring mixtures of mediums, narratives and genres in the video and installation work of this young Israel-born artist need more focus and entertainment value, but they smartly see that the field of set-up video is relatively open right now, with plenty of room for worlds to collide. Harris Lieberman, 89 Vandam Street, between Greenwich and Hudson Streets, South Village, (212)206-1290, through Oct. 8. (Smith)

Last Chance

*MET: 'MATISSE: THE FABRIC OF DREAMS -- HIS ART AND HIS TEXTILES' This somewhat scattered yet astounding exhibition demonstrates that as African sculptures were to the Cubists, so textiles were to Matisse, and revolutionizes the understanding of his life and work. Closing on Sunday. (See above.) (Smith)

MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MOUNT ST. HELENS: PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRANK GOHLKE' A year after the eruption of Mount St. Helens in Washington in 1980, this well-known landscape photographer began documenting the explosion's effect on the surrounding terrain. His expansive black-and-white pictures are formally and technically impeccable, but because they err on the side of understatement, they only partly convey a sense of the volcano's destructive violence. 11 West 53rd Street, (212)708-9400, closing on Monday. (Johnson)

*NEUE GALERIE: 'WAR/HELL: MASTER PRINTS BY OTTO DIX AND MAX BECKMANN' ''War,'' the German artist Otto Dix's great graphic condemnation of battle, a portfolio of 50 etchings rife with grisly images of trench life and death, battlefield corpses, civilian bombings and other horrors, published after World War I, is paired here with Max Beckmann's ''Hell,'' 10 lithographs from 1918 that comment on war's brutality but also give a sardonic view of the inhumanities he saw as the hell of everyday existence. Their presentation together heightens the impact of each. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212)628-6200, closing on Monday. (Glueck)

*BILL OWENS: 'AMERICA' In new 16-by-20-inch prints, Mr. Owens's photographs of white suburbanites from the 1970's remain poetically beguiling and dryly comical. James Cohan, 533 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212)714-9500, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A classical music entry in the Listings pages of Weekend yesterday misidentified the soprano who is to sing the title role in the New York City Opera's production of ''Madama Butterfly'' this afternoon and Thursday night. She is Shu-Ying Li, not Jee Hyun Lim.
A theater entry in the Listings pages of Weekend on Friday referred incorrectly to ''Absurd Person Singular'' by Alan Ayckbourn, at the Biltmore Theater. It is not his latest comedy; it was first performed in 1972. (His latest comedy, ''Improbable Fiction,'' had its premiere in May in Britain.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: DANCE -- Far left, Jody Sperling's troupe takes part in City Center's second annual installment of Fall for Dance, a showcase offering five diverse companies or artists each night for $10 a ticket, Page 25.
MOVIES -- Above, Eugene Hutz stars in Liev Schreiber's ''Everything Is Illuminated,'' based on Jonathan Safran Foer's novel, Page 23.
ART -- Left, Bill Rice's untitled mixed-media assemblage is on view at the Mitchell Algus Gallery in a show that provides an opportunity to catch up with the work of this pioneering New Yorker, Page 25. (Photo by Neil Davidson/Warner Independent Pictures)
(Photo by Mitchell Algus Gallery)
 (Photo by Julie Lemberger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); MUSIC (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); COMEDY FILMS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MUSICAL THEATER (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); WRITERS (70%); TRAILER PARKS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



524 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: U.S. on Front Lines And in Backwaters

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

Imperial Grunts
The American Military on the Ground
By Robert D. Kaplan
421 pages. Random House. $27.95.
 ''Welcome to Injun Country.'' 
 This is the refrain Robert D. Kaplan says he kept hearing from American troops in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in Colombia and in the Philippines, as he researched his uneven but often gripping new book, ''Imperial Grunts.''
 To continue the metaphor, he adds, ''For many of those professional troops the 21st century looked strikingly similar to the middle and latter half of the 19th, when volunteer cavalry and dragoons subdued a panoply of mobile guerrilla forces, composed of different North American Indian tribes, operating throughout the new American empire west of the Mississippi River.'' He compares the panoply of Indian tribes in 19th-century America to the multitude of ''warring ethnic and religious militias spread throughout Eurasia, Africa and South America in the early 21st century.'' And he compares the multifronted global map on which the United States now finds itself fighting terrorism to the ''Hobbesian world'' the American military once faced on the Western frontier where ''internecine ethnic warfare, motivated by the competition for territory and resources, was the primary fact of life.''
For ''Imperial Grunts,'' Mr. Kaplan -- a correspondent for The Atlantic Monthly and the author of such earlier books as ''Balkan Ghosts'' -- traveled the globe, talking to middle-level commissioned and noncommissioned officers stationed at dangerous outposts in Iraq, Afghanistan, Yemen, Colombia and the Philippines. He came to the conclusion that ''by the turn of the 21st century the United States military had already appropriated the entire earth'' -- a vast empire best policed, his sources argue, by ''small, guerilla-like groups of men, armed with linguistic and cultural expertise.'' Because Al Qaeda ''was a worldwide insurgency,'' Mr. Kaplan writes, the United States ''had to fight a classic worldwide counterinsurgency,'' modeled less on World War II, Korea or the Persian Gulf war, than on the actions of O.S.S. units in Nazi-occupied France and the Green Berets in El Salvador. 
 While Mr. Kaplan's larger, theoretical arguments about the future of the military often read like an unconvincing hodgepodge of talking points lifted from people like Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and Max Boot (the author of ''The Savage Wars of Peace: Small Wars and the Rise of American Power''), his on-the-ground reportage makes for riveting reading. He provides vivid and highly chilling accounts of the dangers faced by members of the American military in places like Falluja in Iraq and Colombia's Arauca Province, even as he leaves the reader with a keen appreciation of the expertise and versatility of Special Forces units, who are as adept at executing emergency commando raids as they are at the long, frustrating work of training indigenous armies and pursuing narco-terrorists.
 For these ''grunts,'' as Mr. Kaplan calls them, the mission is everything. Political implications and larger strategic thinking they leave to others. As Mr. Kaplan writes of the Green Berets in Colombia: ''They lived for the particular technical task at hand, and were willing to die, provided there would be someone behind them to pick up the task where they had left off.'' Or as Bob Innes, a veteran of the United States Coast Guard, says of Vietnam: ''I learned that honor and integrity are personal qualities, not institutional ones, not ones we should expect the state to always have. If you don't like the policy, tough. Bad things happen in this world. You do the best you can in your job, and let the crybabies write the books.''In fact, most of the noncom and middle-level officers Mr. Kaplan meets in the Philippines do not speak in terms of ''saving'' or ''improving'' the country. Rather, he writes, ''these men saw their charge in terms of developing a cadre of Westernized officers and useful contacts in both the Christian and Muslim communities who could be influential even in the event that the state broke up. None of the Americans were cynical, yet all of them were aware of America's limitations amid vast and roiling cultural and political forces. But they persevered, finding deep personal meaning in their jobs.''
 Perhaps the best example in this book of one soldier's versatility and influence is Col. Thomas Parker Wilhelm, who trained as an Army Ranger and melded the roles of soldier and diplomat in his capacity as an Army foreign area officer stationed in Mongolia. In an effort to ''make the descendants of Genghis Khan the 'peacekeeping Gurkhas' of the American Empire'' and give the United States a presence near the Chinese border, Colonel Wilhelm does everything from overseeing new aid programs (like a dental mission that treats an average of a hundred patients a day in small border towns) to visiting remote military outposts, where he gives Mongolian military officers the benefit of the knowledge he's acquired from earlier postings in the former Soviet Union, Bosnia, Tajikistan and Macedonia.
 Throughout this book, Mr. Kaplan draws pointed contrasts between the quickness and adaptability of Special Forces units and the lumbering military bureaucracy, and his portraits of individuals like Colonel Wilhelm serve as potent illustrations of the argument that in the 21st century, ''Economy of Force'' is the way to go. Look for ''the right hinge -- the fragile axis upon which political developments in a given country can turn,'' he writes. In other words: ''Don't try to fix the whole society. Rather, identify a few key pivotal elements in it, and try to fix them.'' But while Mr. Kaplan's theory that ''small light and lethal units of soldiers and marines, skilled in guerrilla warfare'' could ''accomplish more than dinosauric, industrial age infantry divisions'' clearly applies in some cases -- for instance, the opening days of the American campaign in Afghanistan -- it's equally clear that it doesn't always work as a general principle. In the case of Iraq, Mr. Rumsfeld's advocacy of a similar theory contributed to the failure to establish law and order after the fall of Saddam Hussein and the failure to contain the continuing insurgency there. Toward the end of this volume, even Mr. Kaplan concedes that ''130,000 American troops in Iraq were simply not enough to deal with a fraction of that number of insurgents.'' ''Imperial Grunts'' is pockmarked by other questionable generalizations as well. Mr. Kaplan contends that those Americans who haven't seen military service are missing out on ''the American experience,'' something he describes as being ''exotic, romantic, exciting, bloody and emotionally painful, sometimes all at once.'' And describing the experience of soldiers serving in Iraq, he cheekily writes that ''it was ironic to keep reading stories about unhappy over-deployed reservists, because those in the Special Operations community whom I had met here and in eastern Afghanistan were having the time of their lives.'' 
 This romanticized and blinkered view of combat clearly colors -- and decidedly slants -- the perspective of ''Imperial Grunts,'' though in the end, even it cannot diminish the vigor of Mr. Kaplan's dispatches from among the grunts.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert D. Kaplan (Photo by Jerry Bauer)(pg. E39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); LITERATURE (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); KOREAN WAR (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); AL-QAEDA (67%); TERRORISM (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: ACCURIDE CORP (85%)

TICKER: ACW (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (85%)

PERSON: Michiko Kakutani; Robert D Kaplan

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (76%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); GULF STATES (78%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



525 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE REBUILDERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Have Nail Gun, Will Travel: Contractors Arrive

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: HATTIESBURG, Miss., Sept. 18 

 BODY:
The license plates spotted on Highway 49 here tell it all: South Carolina, Georgia and Florida mixed with Minnesota, Massachusetts and beyond.
 The out-of-state tags are attached to a legion of trucks driven by roofers, drywallers, plumbers and other contractors who have flooded the area in search of work. The rag-tag caravan is united in its certain belief that it will take years and billions of dollars to rebuild the thousands of homes destroyed by Hurricane Katrina -- and that they stand to benefit.
''We didn't used to be in the storm business, but the last two years, it's been one storm after another,'' said Bill Mason, co-owner of Hungry Roofers, who arrived from Melbourne, Fla. area, three days after Katrina hit the coast. 
 During a break at a Chick-Fil-A fast-food restaurant in Gulfport, Miss., which is about 60 miles south of Hattiesburg, Mr. Mason said he figured there was three times as much damage in the region as there was after four hurricanes in Florida last year. He has brought in 21 workers from Florida and expects to be based in Mississippi for two years; he has already traded a roofing job for access to a house, which he has turned into an office. 
 Mr. Mason is more organized than most. Many itinerant contractors are sleeping in their vans, trailers and pickup trucks, parked at big-box stores like Wal-Mart. Some are advertising their services with decals on their trucks while others have planted hand-painted signs along the main road with their names and phone numbers.
 Mr. Mason and his business partner, Loma Evans Huff, have laptops and wireless Internet access. But many contractors looking for work have arrived with little more than their tools and a case of water.
 ''It looked like the boom days of the 1970's with all these people and their trucks,'' said Chip Barrett, a carpenter from Alma, Colo., speaking of the parking lot at a Wal-Mart in Hattiesburg, where he slept in his car last week alongside a couple of dozen other contractors in their trucks.
 In recent days, the Wal-Mart has become an informal campground for traveling workmen, because the warehouselike store, located conveniently on Highway 49, is open 24 hours. The huge parking lot gives the truckers ample space to spread out, and the store management is friendly.
 ''We offer them a place to stay and we look out for them,'' said Dale McLemore, the store's co-manager. ''There's been a steady crew of trucks for the past week or two.''
 The camping construction workers are part of a vast ad hoc work force that is filling a crucial role. More than 400,000 homes were destroyed and 200,000 damaged in the hurricane, according to the American Red Cross. Fixing them all is impossible for the local work force, so the thousands of out-of-state workmen heading south are needed to pick up the slack.
 Even if these visitors do not stay around to rebuild the mansions that once lined the coast, they can help satisfy some of the most immediate needs, like tacking blue tarps and shingles on roofs before another storm hits, pulling out rotting drywall and insulation before mold creeps in and reinforcing damaged foundations.
 As in previous storms, though, the arrival of contractors from other states has aroused suspicions about price gouging and shoddy work. Mississippi's attorney general, Jim Hood, has already put would-be profiteers on notice, threatening to arrest anyone who takes advantage of homeowners. 
 But even if labor costs are held at prestorm levels, prices for materials like lumber, plasterboard, insulation and construction equipment are starting to rise, chewing into the contractors' potential profits. Some of the region's factories and lumber yards have also been crippled by the hurricane and flooding, making it harder for suppliers and contractors to find things they need like plywood and nails.
 Bo Cain, a salesman at 84 Lumber Company in Gulfport, where Mr. Mason stocks up, said prices for some materials, like drywall, were going up. The cost of framing lumber and plywood have also risen 10 percent to 20 percent on a national basis and perhaps more in Mississippi, according to industry analysts.
 On top of that, with roads and ports clogged and fuel prices rising, transporting goods to construction sites is becoming slower and more costly. The increase in gas prices is particularly noticeable because more material is being trucked in from farther away. 
 ''We have been trying to keep prices steady, but increases are inevitable,'' said Mr. Cain, who added that tractor trailers had recently raised their fuel surcharge to $400, from $250, to deliver materials from Mobile, Ala. 
 Labor costs for out-of-state crews can also be higher than in Mississippi, leaving local residents with the impression that they are being overcharged. And of course, some crews will take higher-paying jobs first.
 ''It's not price gouging; it's supply and demand,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute. ''There simply won't be enough contractors to deal with all this work. A lot of contractors from the north will spend the winter in the south.''
 Complicating matters, some insurance companies have been slow to adjust their estimates for the cost of rebuilding and repairing damaged homes. This means that what insurers have offered homeowners in many cases will not cover the contractor's costs. 
 Mr. Mason said an adjustor with State Farm offered one of his customers nearly 40 percent less than what it would cost him to repair the roof. That would not even cover the cost of materials and labor, let alone allow for any profit on the deal, he said.
 ''It's not like we're making a killing,'' Mr. Mason said. ''We are away from home and we need to be compensated.''
 Some contractors, however, see easy opportunities to make some money in a warm place. Two weeks ago, John Becker, a deck builder from Albertville, Minn., received an unsolicited call from a Mississippi construction company looking for subcontractors to install tarps provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. With the deck-building season over, Mr. Becker jumped at the chance to get some extra work. He recruited his brother and brother-in-law, bought some nails and nail guns and jumped in his pickup truck.
 Mr. Becker and his team arrived Sunday and immediately went to their first job. Sitting behind the wheel of his truck parked at the Wal-Mart here, Mr. Becker said he was in no rush to get back to Minnesota, thanks to the warm weather and rush of new work in Mississippi.
 ''It was slow up there,'' he said of winter work in his home state.
 To be sure, there are contractors trying to make a quick buck on other people's misfortunes. The consumer protection division of the Mississippi attorney general's office has already received thousands of calls from homeowners concerned about price gouging, and the numbers may swell in the coming months as insurance claims are paid and reconstruction begins in earnest, according to Grant Hedgepeth, the director of the division.
 Mr. Hedgepeth said the out-of-state charlatans were moving targets, so his department had opened offices along the coast for teams of investigators and lawyers who will try to track down offenders.
 Still, most contractors say there is no need to cheat customers who are hurricane victims. There are plenty of jobs to go around and builders can easily offset slimmer profits by picking up extra work, said Mr. Barrett, the builder from Colorado.
 After he finishes repairing his cousin's roof in Pass Christian, Miss., a town west of Gulfport, Mr. Barrett plans to return to Colorado where he'll restock his truck with tools -- and turn around and head south again.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Loma Evans Huff and Bill Mason, of Hungry Roofers, went to Gulfport, Miss., from Florida, looking for work three days after the storm hit. (Photo by Ken Belson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); WEATHER (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (86%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (76%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (72%); LABOR FORCE (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); RETAILERS (64%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (63%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MASON CO INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS332993 AMMUNITION (EXCEPT SMALL ARMS) MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3483 AMMUNITION EX. FOR SMALL ARMS (70%)

PERSON: Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: GULFPORT, MS, USA (92%); HATTIESBURG, MS, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



526 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE EXODUS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Houston, You Have a Problem

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH; Reporting for this article was contributed by Alexei Barrionuevo in Chicago and David Leonhardt, Jennifer Bayot, Julie Creswell and Milt Freudenheim in New York.

 BODY:
Facing a potentially devastating hit from Hurricane Rita, the Houston-area economy ground to a halt yesterday as more than four million residents evacuated the city and other nearby coastal areas on clogged highways, which were made worse by motorists stranded as gasoline ran short.
 From Corpus Christi in the south to Port Arthur on the Louisiana border, businesses along the Texas coast -- including everything from large oil refineries and chemical plants to United Parcel Service and Wal-Mart -- suspended most operations.
Standing squarely at the heart of the region, Houston, the nation's fourth-largest metropolitan area, accounts for roughly 2 percent of annual economic output, or about $250 billion, according to Economy.com, a research firm. That is much larger than the $50 billion in output attributed to New Orleans and $10 billion from Gulfport. 
 Depending on how severe it is when it makes landfall, Hurricane Rita could deliver an even greater temporary blow to economic activity than Katrina, largely because of the greater scale of the local economy and the considerably bigger concentration of energy facilities in Texas than in Louisiana and Mississippi. 
 A major disruption to the nation's strained oil refining and distribution network -- which some experts said could last for weeks -- could send gasoline and other fuel prices soaring.
 The hurricane could also wreak significant environmental havoc, because the Texas coast is dotted with large petrochemical plants that store large quantities of dangerous chemicals.
 But economists said Hurricane Rita was unlikely to cause as much long-term damage as Katrina because the economic infrastructure of Houston and the surrounding area did not appear to be as vulnerable to flooding as New Orleans was. ''It's hard to envision a scenario,'' said Mark Zandi, Economy.com's chief economist, ''where Houston is impacted anywhere near as much as New Orleans.''
 The normally busy downtown areas of Houston were largely deserted yesterday after businesses heeded Mayor Bill White's request to send nonessential workers home on Wednesday. Stores at the sprawling Galleria Shopping Center were closed and were expected to stay that way through the weekend. A few hotels, like the Westin, Hyatt and Doubletree, said they would remain open.
 ''Today, it's a ghost town,'' said Brett Perlman, a consultant and a former Texas state utility regulator. ''The entire city is on the road headed out of town. It's a mess.''
 Despite weakening to Category 4, the storm was still packing winds of 145 miles per hour and appeared headed toward eastern Texas and western Louisiana. The area is thick with refineries and other chemical plants. Many went into a heightened state of alert Wednesday and spent most of yesterday shutting facilities and evacuating workers.
 Dow Chemical, which is just now getting its big plant in St. Charles, La., back up to speed, had already shut six Texas plants by yesterday afternoon; Dow expects that by dawn today its huge complex in Freeport, the largest chemical production facility it runs anywhere in the world, will be dark as well. 
 ''We are shutting things down sooner than we did with Katrina, but that's mainly because local authorities are insisting on it,'' said Chris R. Huntley, a Dow spokesman. ''But otherwise, Katrina proved we had the right procedures in place.''
 With memories of Katrina still fresh, the petrochemical and energy industries were not alone in preparing for the hurricane.
 As of yesterday afternoon, some 60 Wal-Mart facilities, including distribution centers and stores, had closed. Wal-Mart has moved even earlier than before Katrina to be ready. Before shutting down two huge distribution centers in Baytown, about 25 miles outside of Houston, workers scrambled to dispatch some 160 truckloads to other facilities away from the storm's path.
 Another 45 to 50 trucks filled with disaster-relief items left the distribution centers to locations along the Gulf Coast, according to John Bisio, regional director for community affairs at the company.
 United Parcel Service, which lost a significant number of packages when some 22 buildings were damaged during Katrina, is less worried this time about moving packages right after the storm and more about keeping them safe, along with its trucks and employees. It has already suspended shipments to the area.
 But the chemical industry may have the most at stake. About 70 percent of the nation's capacity for making ethylene, which forms the building block for products as varied as shirts, plastic wrap and appliance housing, lies in the storm's path. 
 BASF, which had no damage from Katrina, has evacuated eight plants in Texas, including its huge chemical plant in Freeport and a naphtha cracker in Port Arthur that it just installed in 2002. 
 Bayer produces a large portion of its polycarbonates, polyurethanes and other chemicals in Baytown; it shut that plant and evacuated all but a skeleton crew by yesterday.
 But while most in the industry expect some lost production and sales, few expect lasting devastation. Flooding is certainly possible but the topography of the area is different from southern Louisiana and most of the companies say they have long had adequate plans in place for preventing toxic leaks, for protecting equipment, and for getting employees and products out of harm's way. 
 ''Anyone who invested in these areas has designed their plants for hurricanes, and we have a detailed plan for protecting the plants and moving the materials and people,'' Klaus Peter Lobbe, BASF's chairman, said.
 The Environmental Protection Agency said it has 8 to 10 officials standing by in Dallas and 2 in Austin ready to move into stricken areas as soon as the storm passes. Up to 10 more officials were making their way to Dallas, said Sam Coleman, who is heading the agency's response to the hurricanes.
 Mr. Coleman said the agency's response to Katrina had been swift and thorough. But a Sierra Club official said the E.P.A. had been slow to visit Superfund sites in New Orleans and disclose its findings to the public.The Texas coast ''is a far more industrial area than New Orleans,'' said Ed Hopkins, the Sierra Club's director for environmental quality programs. ''The big concern is the potential for a catastrophic release of an extremely hazardous chemical from a tank. Thankfully, people seem to be evacuating from the area.''
 Energy companies, which still have not completely recovered from Katrina, closed as many as 15 refineries in Texas and Louisiana, accounting for about 23 percent of the nation's capacity.
 By comparison, Katrina initially shut down 10 percent of the nation's refining capacity in Louisiana and Mississippi, and about half of that is still out of service. Oil companies also evacuated nearly all their production platforms and rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.
 ''We knew that things were getting fairly stretched and there was exposure to potentially even small shocks,'' said Paul Horsnell, director of energy research at Barclays Capital in London. ''But that is not a small shock; it's an absolute, monstrous hurricane.''
 The energy industry could conceivably bounce back faster this time because it evacuated facilities in a more orderly fashion and across a larger area than with Katrina. Moreover, said Dan Pickering, president of Pickering Energy Partners of Houston, the Texas and northwest Louisiana refineries are clumped in several clusters that are dozens of miles from each other, so if one area gets walloped the others may escape relatively unscathed.
 Oil prices moved higher during the day but ended trading little changed yesterday. Gasoline futures were up 8.63 cents. The retail price for a gallon of regular unleaded gasoline averaged $2.755, down from $2.764 Wednesday, according to AAA. Prices spiked past $3 in many cities after Katrina hit, and Mr. Horsnell said they could again rise sharply if this storm keeps refiners out of commission for more than a few days.
 With the hurricane's approach, CenterPoint Energy, with 1.8 million customers in the Houston area, recalled some 70 employees from New Orleans. Yesterday, CenterPoint had some 2,300 linemen and 1,600 tree-trimmers ready to restore power and fix poles, said Emily Mir Thompson, a spokeswoman for CenterPoint.
 ''We are telling our customers,'' she said, ''to be prepared to be without electricity for up to two weeks.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Galveston, which suffered the nation's deadliest storm in 1900, lies in the Texas stretch of the Gulf Coast threatened by Hurricane Rita. (Photo by Pat Sullivan/Associated Press)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Bracing for Rita''Hurricane Rita is heading for the region where more than a quarter of the country's oil refining capacity is concentrated. It has forced energy companies to once again idle most of the platforms used to extract oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico.Map shows path of Hurricane Rita.(Sources by Minerals Management Service
NOAA
 Energy Information Administration)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); GASOLINE (77%); PETROCHEMICALS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CHEMICALS (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (76%); TRENDS (74%); MAYORS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); RETAILERS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends; Katrina (Storm); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Refineries; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (59%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%); DOW (SWX) (57%); DOW (NYSE) (57%); DOW (LSE) (57%); 4850 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj; Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (92%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (79%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Houston (Tex); Texas; Louisiana; Mississippi; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



527 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Indicators Drop; Joblessness Up

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The economy softened in August even before Hurricane Katrina struck, and the storm sent weekly first-time unemployment claims to a two-year high, separate reports released yesterday showed.
 The index of leading economic indicators slid 0.2 percent after a revised 0.1 percent decline in July, the first back-to-back drops since 2001, the Conference Board said. 
Initial applications for jobless benefits rose to 432,000 last week, the most since July 2003, the Labor Department said.
 A drop in consumer confidence was the biggest contributor to the decline in the leading indicators index. Sentiment is sliding further this month, threatening to sap spending and weaken economic growth as the approach of a second storm, Hurricane Rita, drives energy prices higher.
 The index had been forecast to decline 0.3 percent after a previously reported 0.1 percent gain in July, based on the median of 54 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.
 About 103,000 first-time unemployment claims last week were from people forced out of work by Hurricane Katrina, a Labor Department spokesman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); WEATHER (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%) United States Economy; Labor; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Leading Economic Indicators ; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board; Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



528 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Brazil: Request for Trade Penalties

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Brazil accused the United States of failing to comply with a World Trade Organization decision requiring steep cuts in government subsidies for American cotton producers, and said it would seek permission to impose retaliatory trade measures. United States officials faced a Wednesday deadline to slash the subsidies -- which were ruled illegal by the global body that sets international trade rules -- but did not meet it, the foreign ministry of Brazil said in a statement. 
Brazil will soon ask authorities at the 147-nation W.T.O. to allow it to impose penalties. The sanctions could range from higher tariffs on American imports to allowing Brazilian manufacturers to break American patents, though the request does not necessarily mean Brazil will go ahead with sanctions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (83%) Cotton; Fines (Penalties); International Trade and World Market; Crop Controls and Subsidies

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



529 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Afternoon Daily in Birmingham, Ala., to End Its 55-Year Run

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala., Sept. 22 

 BODY:
The Birmingham Post-Herald, the afternoon daily in Alabama's largest city for the last decade, will fold Friday after a 55-year run. 
 ''It's a sad day, but we have the privilege of writing our own obituary,'' the Post-Herald's editor, Jim Willis, said Thursday, shortly after announcing to the staff that the newspaper would be closing. 
 The newspaper is owned by the E.W. Scripps Company, which announced that it was closing The Post-Herald because of ''economic realities,'' saying it was clear that the Birmingham market would no longer support an afternoon newspaper. 
 The Post-Herald long was the city's morning paper, but that role was taken by The Birmingham News in a 1996 switch, with The Post-Herald's paid circulation falling steadily to less than 8,000. 
 With the announcement, Scripps is ending its joint operating agreement with The News's owner, Advance Publications. 
 The News, which has been managing the printing, marketing and distribution of both newspapers, will continue to appear seven mornings a week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAID CIRCULATION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (76%) Newspapers; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: E W SCRIPPS CO (83%); BIRMINGHAM POST-HERALD CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Birmingham Post-Herald; Birmingham News

TICKER: SSP (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (58%); BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND (58%) ALABAMA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Alabama

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



530 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Senate Rejects Bush Bid to Ease Delivery of Food To Poor Nations 

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
A Bush administration proposal that sought to get food to starving people more rapidly and efficiently was rejected by Senate leaders yesterday, but the Canadian government announced that it was increasing the use of the same technique.
 Up to half of Canada's food aid budget may now be used to buy food in developing countries near a hunger crisis, with the rest bought from Canadian producers. Before, only 10 percent could be bought abroad. 
Canada's minister of international cooperation, Aileen Carroll, said in an interview that the new policy would permit Canada to spend more than $100 million in aid ''to get more food to more people more quickly.''
 In contrast, under the food aid program run by the United States Agency for International Development, with a budget of more than $1 billion, all food must be bought in United States markets and most must be shipped on United States-flagged vessels. Shipping costs consume 40 percent to 50 percent of the food aid budget, and delivering the food typically takes four months.
 The Bush administration asked that the aid agency be allowed to spend up to a quarter of its food aid budget in or near the poor countries afflicted by hunger crises. The Senate leadership declined to include such a provision in the agricultural appropriations bill passed yesterday. The House did the same in June.
 Keith Williams, a spokesman for Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia and chairman of the Agriculture Committee, said yesterday that there were concerns that food aid bought abroad might not be delivered as reliably as aid bought in the United States, and that such purchases might drive up food prices and worsen scarcity in drought-stricken areas. 
 The American proposal appears all but dead, but Senator Mike DeWine, Republican of Ohio and a member of the Appropriations Committee, said through his spokesman that he would try to revive a scaled-down version when the bill goes to a House-Senate conference committee.
 He sought unsuccessfully yesterday to persuade Republican leaders of the Senate Appropriations and Agriculture Committees to allow 10 percent of the food aid budget to be spent in poor countries. 
 ''There will be a time lag in how quickly we can get food in to help, and in that lag there are children dying,'' his spokesman, Jeff Sadosky, said.
 In the looming hunger crisis in southern Africa, Canada already buys corn in the region. The World Food Program estimates that more than 10 million people will need food in Malawi, Mozambique and Zambia, among other nations. At the same time, South Africa has had a bumper corn crop.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); STARVATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); AGRICULTURE (70%); CORN FARMING (70%); MARINE VESSELS (67%); DROUGHT (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: SAXBY CHAMBLISS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); MALAWI (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



531 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Gay Men Ponder Impact Of Proposal by Vatican

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
Word that the Vatican is likely to issue instructions soon that could bar most gay men from joining the priesthood has set off a wave of anger and sadness among some gay priests and seminarians who say they may soon have to decide whether to stay or leave, to remain silent or to speak out.
 ''I do think about leaving,'' said a 30-year old Franciscan seminary student. ''It's hard to live a duplicitous life, and for me it's hard not to speak out against injustice. And that's what this is.'' 
In telephone interviews on Thursday with gay priests and seminarians in different parts of the country, all were adamant that their names not be used because they feared repercussions from their bishops or church superiors. 
 ''I find that I am becoming more and more angry,'' said a 40-year-old priest on the West Coast who said he had not decided whether to reveal his homosexuality publicly. ''This is the church I've given my life to and I believe in. I look at every person I come in contact with as someone who's created in the image and likeness of God, and I expect that from the church that I'm a part of. But I always feel like I'm 'less than.'''
 The fears by gay priests and seminarians intensified this week after news reports from the Vatican that a long-awaited church document will bar gay men, even those who are celibate, from becoming Roman Catholic priests. 
 For years, most American seminaries and religious orders have not barred gay candidates outright, instead trying to discern in each case whether the man was capable of living the celibate life. 
 The ban would pertain only to candidates for the priesthood, not to those already ordained.
 The church is also beginning an examination this month of American seminaries in which faculty members and students will be interviewed on admissions policies, adherence to Catholic moral doctrine, adequacy of preparation for celibacy and whether there is ''evidence of homosexuality'' in the seminary. Their reports will take years to complete.
 Church officials say those measures will help address conditions that led to the priest sexual abuse scandal that resurfaced in Boston in 2002 and spread to many dioceses. A study commissioned by the American bishops found last year that nearly 80 percent of those abused were boys. 
 Some conservative priests welcomed the changes. The Rev. John Trigilio Jr., president of the Confraternity of Catholic Clergy, a conservative 400-member group based in Harrisburg, Pa., said that barring gay men from seminaries was ''for their own good,'' just as the church once barred epileptics from the priesthood. 
 ''It's pretty much the same thing,'' Father Trigilio said. ''The work and the ministry of the priesthood is going to be too demanding and will put a strain on them. He's going to have to spend five to eight years in a seminary where he's only going to be with men.''
 One gay seminarian in his 30's responded that such reasoning was ''ridiculous'' and that he has lived harmoniously for four years with a group of mostly heterosexual seminarians.
 ''Homosexual men are socialized differently,'' he said. ''We have spent our whole lives living and working with other men. We've been on the same school teams, shared the same locker rooms, been in the same fraternities, and we are accustomed to being around people to whom we are attracted. To suggest that because one has a homosexual orientation one is unable to control one's sexual impulses is, frankly, insulting.'' 
 He said ''it would be hard to imagine'' staying in the seminary, because ''I take very seriously the church and the authority of the episcopacy.''
 Gay priests say they are being scapegoated for crimes committed by pedophiles and covered up by bishops who never faced any discipline. The interviews made clear that they now had the strong sense of being persecuted by their own church.
 ''I feel like a Jew in Berlin in the 1930's,'' said a 48-year-old gay priest who has spent 18 years in a religious order. He said he was considering donning a pink triangle -- the symbol used by the Nazis -- and getting heterosexual priests and members of the laity to wear the triangles as a protest.
 Many of the gay priests said that the expected Vatican policy and the seminary visits would drive gay priests more deeply underground and create the same unhealthy, sexually repressed climate that prevailed in seminaries before reforms in the 1980's and 90's. 
 Some priests say they fear that by rejecting homosexual candidates the church will only worsen its shortage of priests. ''It's like they have this plan to empty the church,'' said a gay priest on the East Coast. 
 Some church conservatives argue that, on the contrary, if seminaries bar homosexuals, more heterosexuals will step forward.
 Sister Katerina Schuth, a professor at St. Paul's Seminary at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul who studies Catholic seminaries, said there was no evidence for that theory and added, ''That is reasoning and speculation by people who have not spent any, or much time in seminaries.'' 
 Among parishioners at Our Lady of Perpetual Help in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, a working-class ethnically mixed neighborhood, worshipers leaving a Mass yesterday were divided on whether the policy would be helpful. 
 Helen Dunn, a retired teacher, said it was important to weed out gay men at the seminary level, ''because that's where the problems start.'' 
 ''They're looking for something they can't get,'' Ms. Dunn added.
 Bruno Basedy, 55, an immigrant from Colombia, said that homosexuality was ''no good'' and demonstrated acceptable conduct by singing the theme from Wagner's wedding march. 
 But Max Gonzalez, 52, a retired phone company worker who arrived at the church just after Mass ended, said gay priests ''don't bother me, as long as they're not bothering the kids.'' 
 Patrick Murphy, 37, an unemployed man who attended the Mass, said that while he considered homosexuality ''an abnormality of the soul,'' he did not feel it was incompatible with a calling to serve God, nor did he think it appropriate for the church to try to purge celibate gays from the seminary.
 ''A person who chooses to be celibate is doing a noble act,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''They're choosing to become sexual martyrs. So their sexuality shouldn't be exploited.''
 Several priests in New York said they were troubled by the direction that the Vatican seemed to be taking.
 Msgr. Denis Herron, pastor of St. Teresa's Church in Woodside, Queens, said a commitment to celibacy was more important than a seminarian's sexual orientation. 
 ''Some people can't make that commitment, and that can be heterosexuals or homosexuals,'' Monsignor Herron said. ''I'm concerned that this could turn into a witch hunt.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); CONSERVATISM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EPILEPSY (60%); SCANDALS (60%); SEX SCANDALS (50%) Homosexuality; Priests; Celibacy

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Laurie Goodstein

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (50%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



532 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: The Big Uneasy

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Although Hurricane Katrina drowned much of New Orleans, the damage to America's economic infrastructure actually fell short of early predictions. Of course, Rita may make up for that.
 But Katrina did more than physical damage; it was a blow to our self-image as a nation. Maybe people will quickly forget the horrible scenes from the Superdome, and the frustration of wondering why no help had arrived, once cable TV returns to nonstop coverage of missing white women. But my guess is that Katrina's shock to our sense of ourselves will persist for years. 
America's current state of mind reminds me of the demoralized mood of late 1979, when a confluence of events -- double-digit inflation, gas lines and the Iranian hostage crisis -- led to a national crisis of confidence. 
 Start with economic confidence. The available measures say that consumer confidence, which was already declining before Katrina hit, has now fallen off a cliff. One well-respected survey, from the University of Michigan, says that consumer sentiment is at its lowest level since George Bush the elder was president and ''America: What Went Wrong?'' was a national best seller. 
 It's true that gasoline prices have receded from their post-Katrina peaks. But even if Rita spares the refineries, a full recovery of economic confidence seems unlikely. For one thing, it looks as if we're in for a long, cold winter: natural gas and fuel oil are still near their price peaks. And most families were already struggling even before Katrina. A few weeks ago, the Census Bureau reported that in 2004, while Washington and Wall Street were hailing a ''Bush boom,'' poverty increased, and median family income failed to keep up with inflation. It's safe to assume that most families did even worse this year. 
 Then there's the war in Iraq, which is rapidly becoming impossible to spin positively: the purple fingers have come and gone, and there are no more corners to turn. As a result, views that people like Howard Dean were once derided for are becoming the majority opinion. Most Americans say the war was a mistake; a majority say the administration deliberately misled the country into war; almost 4 in 10 say Iraq will turn into another Vietnam.
 And many people are outraged by the war's cost. The general public doesn't closely follow economists' arguments about the risks of budget deficits, or try to decide between competing budget projections. But people do know that there's a big deficit, that politicians keep calling for cuts in spending and that rebuilding after Katrina will cost a lot of money. They resent the idea that large sums are being spent in a faraway country, where we're waging a war whose purpose seems increasingly obscure.
 Finally, fragmentary evidence -- like a sharp drop in the fraction of Americans who approve of President Bush's performance in handling terrorism and the failure of large crowds to show up for the Pentagon's ''America Supports You'' march and country music concert -- suggests that the confluence of Katrina and the fourth anniversary of 9/11 has caused something to snap in public perceptions about the ''war on terror.'' 
 In the early months after 9/11, America's self-confidence actually seemed to have been bolstered by the attack: the Taliban were quickly overthrown, and President Bush looked like an effective leader. The positive perception of what happened after 9/11 has, needless to say, been a mainstay of Mr. Bush's political stature. 
 But now that more time has elapsed since 9/11 than the whole stretch from Pearl Harbor to V-J Day, people are losing faith. Osama, it turns out, could both run and hide. It's obvious from the evening news that Al Qaeda and violent Islamic extremism in general are flourishing. 
 And the hapless response to Katrina, which should have been easier to deal with than a terrorist attack, has shown that our leaders have done virtually nothing to make us safer.
 And here's the important point: these blows to our national self-image are mutually reinforcing. The sense that we're caught in an unwinnable war reinforces the sense that the economy is getting worse, and vice versa. So we're having a crisis of confidence.
 It's the kind of crisis that opens the door for dramatic political changes -- possibly, but not necessarily, in a good direction. But who will provide leadership, now that Mr. Bush is damaged goods?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); HURRICANES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); BUDGETS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); IRAQ WAR (68%); CENSUS (66%); GASOLINE MARKETS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); POVERTY RATES (63%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; United States Economy; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (63%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (93%) Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



533 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Pharmaceutical Executive Sentenced to 8 Years in the Beating Death of His Wife

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILLER

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
A former professor and pharmaceutical executive who was found guilty of beating his wife to death and then staging a car accident to cover it up was sentenced on Thursday to eight years in prison.
 Prosecutors had argued that the former executive, Jonathan W. Nyce, 55, who founded and headed his own company, should get the maximum, 11 1/2 years, for killing his wife, Michelle Nyce, 34, when he slammed her face into the floor of their garage in Hopewell Township nearly two years ago. On the night of her death, Mrs. Nyce had just returned from having a tryst with her landscaper in a motel. 
In July, a jury here in State Superior Court of Mercer County found Mr. Nyce guilty of passion/ provocation manslaughter, a lesser crime than murder, the original charge.
 ''We're very, very displeased with the sentence,'' said Doris Galuchie, an assistant prosecutor, in an interview after the hearing. ''We think it's far too lenient. He never ever accepted a shred of responsibility for his actions.''
 The day was fraught with drama, tears and accusations. Prosecutors said that Mr. Nyce had been dishonest from the beginning of the case, and they insisted that he should be punished for it. Michelle Nyce's family lamented their loss. The judge attested to what he saw as Mr. Nyce's otherwise good character but said he was troubled by the defendant's ''dissembling.''
 As for Mr. Nyce, he made his first extended public comments since his wife was found in the middle of a creek behind the wheel of her S.U.V., her head bloodied and split, in central New Jersey on a snowy morning in January 2004.
 ''I love Michelle with all my heart,'' he said as he stood in an orange inmate jumpsuit, chains dangling from his shackled wrists and ankles. ''I still love her.'' He paused and sobbed. ''I loved her with everything I could. I supported her in any way I could.'' 
 Mr. Nyce said he cashed in half his pension and took a second job so he could buy property and build new homes for his wife's family in the Philippines. He said he sent food and developed a playground there.
 The Nyces were the parents of three young children, two boys and a girl, who are now living with Mr. Nyce's brother in Pennsylvania. Mr. Nyce had started and had run EpiGenesis Pharmaceuticals, but his hopes for a revolutionary asthma drug were dashed and he was forced out of the company.
 Prosecutors argued that Mr. Nyce might not have been the doting father he had portrayed himself to be.
 ''He wasn't saving lives,'' Ms. Galuchie said. ''He was an unemployed father who was, quite frankly, taking an interest in his children for the first time.''
 Mr. Nyce erupted. ''That's too much!'' he shouted. He glared at Ms. Galuchie and moved forward in his seat. His lawyer, Robin K. Lord, clasped his shoulder. ''That's too much, your honor,'' he repeated.
 A few moments later Ms. Galuchie said, ''This man didn't even pay for his own wife's funeral.''
 Mr. Nyce again shouted from the defense table: ''I was in jail! Jesus!''
 Larissa Soos, a friend of Michelle Nyce, said that she ''had to do everything herself and was lonesome at times.'' Ms. Soos added, ''She died so young and so tragic, and she never had a chance to say good-bye.'' 
 Judge Wilbur H. Mathesius said he had taken Mr. Nyce's character and history into account in his sentencing. ''Much of what Jonathan Nyce did in his life was good,'' he said. 
 But he took issue with the way Mr. Nyce and his lawyer described the events that led to Mrs. Nyce's death. ''The term 'accident' in no sense sums up what was eventuated,'' he said. Mr. Nyce will most likely be eligible for parole in about five and a half years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); VERDICTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MURDER (78%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); VOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); CHILDREN (64%); ASTHMA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); PHILIPPINES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



534 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Pataki's in China, but the Briefing Is in Albany

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
Live, from Shanghai, it was Gov. George E. Pataki!
 When his weeklong trade mission to China failed to attract any members of the Albany press corps, Governor Pataki did the next best thing as it drew to a close: He brought the story to the reporters with a video news conference that beamed his image from an office tower in Shanghai, where he sat beside a gong, to the ornate Red Room of the State Capitol.
''This is undoubtedly the first-ever live governor's press conference between Shanghai and Albany,'' the governor told a group of statehouse reporters who had assembled in the Red Room at the somewhat early -- for journalism -- hour of 9 a.m., because of the 12-hour time difference. 
 The governor proclaimed his trip a success, saying that the business executives he was traveling with had held more than 300 meetings. He said that he was optimistic that a Chinese real estate firm was moving ahead with its plans to build a center for Chinese businesses in Lower Manhattan. And he said that New York State would be opening its own trade office in China.
 Governor Pataki said that during his trip, he spoke about free trade and fair trade and human rights, and expressed support for the United States policy of recognizing ''one China,'' with Taiwan part of China. He said he had also spoken about the need for the United States to embrace the competition of the global economy. 
 ''A thousand years ago China tried to protect itself by building a wall, and that didn't work,'' he said. ''And there are those now who advocate that America and New York should protect themselves by building a wall to protect us from foreign trade, and that won't work. The global economy is real. Competition is real. We have to innovate.''
 The governor, who plans to step down in 2006 and is considering a run for president in 2008, brushed aside speculation that his trip was intended to burnish his foreign policy credentials. ''It's about New York,'' he said. All told, 12 state employees are on the state-financed weeklong trip.
 Governor Pataki said he had initially planned to visit China in October 2001, but postponed his trip after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 When Gov. Mario M. Cuomo traveled to Moscow in 1987, in what was viewed as an attempt for him to learn about foreign policy before the 1988 presidential race, 15 reporters traveled with him. But Governor Pataki has no reporters traveling with him, as news organizations are struggling in tough economic times. The governor canceled one leg of the trip, which was to have taken him to Japan. 
 While he could not announce any major business coup on Thursday, Mr. Pataki said he was ''optimistic'' that the Vantone real estate group would choose Lower Manhattan for a center for Chinese businesses. 
 The company has been in talks with the Bloomberg administration and city business leaders for more than a year now on the project, called the China Center, which would provide Chinese businesses with a central location and support services. 
 Last spring the Partnership for New York City, a business group, traveled to China with business leaders and city development officials to pitch the project. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said the project was one of the things on his mind when he pushed a package of economic incentives for Lower Manhattan through the Legislature last June. 
 As Governor Pataki signed off from the video news conference, which was broadcast from I.B.M.'s Shanghai offices, a reporter asked if he would bang the gong beside him. He demurred, saying, ''Thanks for the suggestion.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A hotel clerk in Shanghai helped Gov. George E. Pataki into a car yesterday. The governor said that business executives traveling with him held more than 300 meetings during the weeklong trade mission to China. (Photo by Eugene Hoshiko/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (61%) International Trade and World Market; Videophones and Videoconferencing

PERSON: Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (79%) China; New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



535 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Newark: Ridership Record For New Jersey Transit 

BYLINE: By Patrick McGeehan (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
The average number of commuters riding New Jersey Transit's buses and trains rose more than 5 percent to 800,900 in the year that ended on June 30, the transit agency said yesterday. 
More than one-third of the additional trips -- 12,850 -- were on buses going in and out of New York City. Another 8,400 were on the light-rail systems along the Hudson River and in the Camden area, as well as the Newark subway. George D. Warrington, the agency's executive director, attributed the record level of ridership to improved service, a strong economy and the rising price of gasoline. Patrick McGeehan (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (85%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%) Transit Systems; Buses; Railroads; Commuting

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Transit

INDUSTRY: NAICS485210 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4131 INTERCITY & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (91%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



536 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Truck Fire Snarls Bridge Traffic 

BYLINE: By Michelle O'Donnell (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
A pickup truck caught fire last evening on the George Washington Bridge, making it necessary to close the upper level for more than an hour and snarling the evening commute for thousands of drivers, the authorities said. No one was hurt, but the 1998 Dodge pickup, which belongs to Andrew Iverson, 36, of Jay, Maine, was destroyed. Mr. 
Iverson, an unemployed truck driver who was returning home from Tallahassee, Fla., was halfway across the upper level about 6 p.m. when he noticed smoke coming from his truck and jumped out. Pasquale DiFulco, a spokesman for the Port Authority, said that all lanes were reopened and traffic was fully moving by 7:25 p.m. As for Mr. Iverson, he said he would be moving again ''as soon as I get a rental car.'' Michelle O'Donnell (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); FIRES (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (85%); PORT AUTHORITIES (71%) Roads and Traffic; Fires and Firefighters; George Washington Bridge; Accidents and Safety; Delays (Transportation)

PERSON: Michelle O'Donnell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



537 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Security Plan Will Cost $130 Million More, Hevesi Says

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Fortifying the city's transportation infrastructure against potential threats will cost $721 million, or $130 million more than the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's initial estimate of $591 million, officials said yesterday.
 The higher figure was announced by the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, who has been reviewing the agency's security program. He said that as the review proceeded, the authority told members of his staff that the total would be higher. 
The authority came under criticism in the summer for being slow to spend the money it had set aside to improve the security of the city's transportation network. The authority began an assessment of potential threats soon after the attack of Sept. 11, 2001, but of the $591 million it committed in December 2002 -- the figure that has now grown to $721 million -- the agency had spent only a fraction by March of this year.
 The authority, which says it is cooperating with Mr. Hevesi's review, now expects to spend about $300 million by the end of the year on design work for 24 security enhancement projects. An agency spokesman did not dispute the cost increase that Mr. Hevesi announced. ''There's nothing adversarial here,'' said the spokesman, Tom Kelly.
 Mr. Hevesi also said in a news release that he was setting up a task force to conduct audits and contract reviews of the security program. He said the task force would be led by Kenneth B. Bleiwas, the deputy state comptroller for New York City.
 ''It's of great concern that they're over budget by $130 million,'' said John Chartier, a spokesman for Mr. Hevesi. ''We want to know why are they running so much higher over the planned budget. It's a serious situation because we're dealing with one of the biggest transportation systems in the world. An attack on the system could have far-reaching implications, not just for New York but the economy. A review is certainly warranted.''
 Speaking for the authority and referring to Mr. Hevesi and the task force, Mr. Kelly said, ''He said oversight -- set it up.''
 The authority began seeking bids on the $591 million plan in December 2003. Its board approved spending $100 million of the $591 million on consulting work four months later. Mr. Hevesi said that as the designs for the first batch of high-priority projects advanced, the projected costs grew.
 Officials from the authority have said that precise estimates are difficult to come up with because the scope of the security enhancements is unprecedented. ''No one has done this before,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''If you want to secure a tunnel, what is the best way to secure the tunnel?'' The engineering challenges involved in retrofitting tunnels makes precise estimates harder to come by, he said.
 After the subway and bus bombings in London in July, the authority awarded a $212 million contract to install 1,000 video cameras and 3,000 motion sensors and to enable cellphone service in 277 underground stations. The contract went to a group of companies led by the Lockheed Martin Corporation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); AUDITS (72%); TERRORISM (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%) Transit Systems; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: James Barron; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



538 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Airbus Chief Sees Some Virtue in High Oil Prices 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: TOULOUSE, France, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
Soaring oil prices pose an obvious threat to the airlines. But they are giving a temporary lift to the fortunes of aircraft manufacturers because of a demand for more economical planes, the new chief executive of Airbus, Gustav Humbert, said Thursday.
 ''The higher the oil price, the greater the demand for more fuel-efficient aircraft,'' said Mr. Humbert, a German engineer who took the helm of Airbus, the European plane maker, in June. ''We should encourage airlines to buy new aircraft to replace those which are 15 or 20 years old.'' 
Airbus and its rival, Boeing, are enjoying a bumper year for orders of new planes, propelled in part by their competing midsize, long-distance aircraft, the Boeing 787 and the Airbus A350. Boeing, in particular, has successfully promoted the 787 for its fuel efficiency.
 Mr. Humbert made his remarks in an interview with reporters at Airbus headquarters here. He also struck a more conciliatory tone toward Boeing, with which it is embroiled in a bitter trade dispute over what Boeing contends are improper subsidies Airbus receives from European countries to develop new planes.
 ''We would like a negotiated solution rather than a litigated solution,'' Mr. Humbert said, alluding to the lawsuit that the United States has filed against the European Union with the World Trade Organization.
 Mr. Humbert's predecessor, Noel Forgeard, said Airbus would not negotiate with Boeing if the dispute escalated into a lawsuit. But Mr. Humbert said the two companies should try to settle the dispute because protracted litigation would damage both of them. ''It does not lead anywhere,'' he said. ''We are not afraid of litigation, only the effects of litigation.''
 Still, he reiterated Airbus's contention that Boeing receives improper aid in the form of tax breaks, research grants from the Pentagon and state subsidies from Japan, which is supplying components for the 787. And he said Airbus was confident that it would receive a requested 1.45 billion euros ($1.76 billion) in ''launch aid'' for the A350 from Britain, France, Germany and Spain.
 ''We cannot live in a situation in which the 787 gets lots and lots of aid, and the 350 gets none, or much less,'' Mr. Humbert said.
 He said he expected Airbus to obtain formal approval to build the A350 at a board meeting next month of its parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, or EADS. That could coincide with the approval of aid from the European governments.
 Airbus said it had 140 orders and commitments for the A350, which will seat 253 to 300 passengers. John Leahy, the chief commercial officer of Airbus, said he would book a total of 200 orders by the end of 2005. Boeing has 263 orders and commitments for the 787, and says it is in negotiations to sell hundreds more.
 As a result, Boeing may surpass Airbus in annual orders for the first time in several years. By Airbus's count, it has 417 orders for all types of aircraft, while Boeing has 629. 
 Airbus, which was once dwarfed by Boeing, has savored what has at times been its come-from-behind lead. On Thursday, Mr. Humbert played down the possibility of falling back into second place.
 ''This is not the end of the world,'' he said.
 Airbus has other worries, not least a six-month delay in the delivery of its new superjumbo jet, the A380. It was forced to shut down its assembly line in Toulouse from May to the middle of August because staff members were overtaxed by the demands of carriers to create customized cabins. Airbus tried to recruit additional engineers, but said it could not find enough.
 ''The customers were all shouting, which is good because that means they really want the aircraft,'' said Charles Champion, a chief operating officer of Airbus, who is in charge of the A380 program.
 Airbus said it would deliver the first A380 to Singapore Airlines late in 2006. It will have to pay Singapore and other carriers steep penalties for late delivery, but it would not give a detailed estimate. Airbus has 159 orders for the A380, though demand has been slow in the last year.
 Despite that -- and the rising fuel prices -- the mood at Airbus these days is bright. Mr. Leahy said it was possible that in 2005, the industry would break its record for orders: 1,631 in 1989. 
 Mr. Humbert cautioned that any windfall from the oil market would be fleeting, since high fuel prices erode the finances of airlines and the broader economy, including air travel. The spate of bankruptcy filings by United States carriers, he added, could hamper future growth.
 ''If the oil price stays at this level, or goes even higher,'' Mr. Humbert said, ''then we don't only have a problem with air travel, we have a huge problem with our international economy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gustav Humbert said he preferred negotiations with Boeing. (Photo by Andrew Wheeler/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (91%); AIRLINES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); TRADE DISPUTES (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); EURO (65%); APPROVALS (64%) Airlines and Airplanes; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Suits and Litigation; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (85%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%) Airbus Industrie; Boeing Co

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); EAD (PAR) (85%); EAD (MCE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: Gustav Humbert; Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%) MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%) Europe; European Union

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



539 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Why His Peers Say Kozlowski Got Off Easy 

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
L. DENNIS KOZLOWSKI, whose excesses damaged the reputations of everything from shower curtains to ice sculptures, is on his way to a New York State prison for at least seven years. He is lucky that his sentence was not determined by a jury of his peers.
 Even as some lawyers moan that it is unfair to send business executives away for years or even decades, there is a stunning lack of sympathy for them from those who used to be their peers: people who are or were at the top of large corporations.
''I think 25 years would be fair, similar to Bernie's sentence, so they are basically spending the rest of their lives in prison,'' said Colleen Cunningham, president of Financial Executives International, the trade group of chief financial officers. 
 Bernie, of course, is Bernard J. Ebbers, 64, the man who built WorldCom from a tiny long-distance company into a giant, and who then watched as it collapsed in fraud. He was sentenced to 25 years.
 Ms. Cunningham, a former finance chief at Havas, the French advertising agency, is not alone in her hostility to convicted bosses. 
 Her group, along with the Zicklin School of Business at Baruch College, polled 318 chief financial officers on Mr. Ebbers's sentence. A large majority thought 25 years was either about right or too lenient.
 Why the hostility? They think Mr. Ebbers and Mr. Kozlowski have stolen something of value from them: a part of their reputations. They fear that others will think many bosses are crooks, that what sets a Kozlowski apart from them is that he was caught. And they resent it deeply.
 The costs of these frauds are often thought of in terms of shareholder losses and the fate of employees laid off after companies like WorldCom or Enron collapse.
 But there are other victims. Ms. Cunningham used to be the chief accounting officer of AT&T, and she remembers weekend meetings where executives would pore over WorldCom's financial reports, seeking ways to keep AT&T competitive.
 ''We made decisions based on those false numbers,'' she said. AT&T laid off thousands of workers who might have kept their jobs. 
 Lawyers for Mr. Kozlowski, who is 58, emphasized that Tyco, the company he bilked, did not collapse, and that may have helped to persuade the judge to be lenient. The sentence of 81/3 to 25 years could be cut to just over seven years if he behaves himself in prison. He could be out before he is 66.
 One important question about long sentences for corporate criminals is whether they have a deterrent effect. That answer may not be reassuring.
 ''It would not stop economic predators like me,'' said Sam E. Antar, who knows something about fraud. He was the chief financial officer of Crazy Eddie, a New York home electronics chain that cooked its books. (He chose to cooperate with investigators and managed to stay out of prison after he pleaded guilty.)
 What will stop them? ''You need to build barriers like good internal controls,'' Mr. Antar said, ''and you need sharp auditors.''
 Auditors may or may not be getting sharper, but pressures for good internal controls are weakening. The Securities and Exchange Commission voted this week to delay for another year requiring small companies to test and certify their controls. Some companies loudly complained that such testing is too expensive. 
 Perhaps the delay will result in finding cheaper ways to protect investors. But in the meantime, investors in small companies opposing the rules might want to ask what those companies have to fear. Tyco had no good internal controls, and top management very much liked it that way.


GRAPHIC: Chart: A Baruch College poll of chief financial officers' opinions of a 25- year sentence for Bernard Ebbers.TOO LONG: 21.4%ABOUT RIGHT: 60.1TOO SHORT: 14.8NO OPINION: 3.8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); LARCENY & THEFT (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ETHICS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (73%); JUDGES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (50%) Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Sentences (Criminal); Ethics; Public Opinion; Executives and Management

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); HAVAS SA (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Tyco International Ltd; Worldcom Inc; Baruch College; Tyco International Ltd

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); HAV (PAR) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris; Bernard J Ebbers; L Dennis Kozlowski; Bernard J Ebbers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



540 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Just When Airlines Thought Things Couldn't Get Worse 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Christopher Elliott contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
In April, the chief executive of Southwest Airlines, Gary C. Kelly, asked employees to prepare a business plan based on oil prices at a level then unimaginable: $55 a barrel. Little did Mr. Kelly know that his nightmare price then would be welcome now.
 For airlines, oil prices have turned into a gigantic bowling ball, threatening to squash efforts to cut costs and become more competitive. The aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and the looming landfall of Hurricane Rita, which threatens about one-quarter of the nation's jet fuel supply, are raising fears that the pain to the airlines is just beginning. 
''It's hard to imagine a worse collection of events for the airline industry,'' said Jan K. Brueckner, professor of economics at the University of California, Irvine. ''They already have a problem of low-cost competition, and they get smashed with the sledgehammer of fuel prices on top of it.''
 In a year when airlines have been caught off guard by repeated spikes in fuel prices -- helping send two companies into bankruptcy last week -- companies are scrambling to compensate and a result for passengers could be higher fares. Last week, the management of Northwest Airlines told its board to be ready for oil prices averaging $65 a barrel. The price jump that followed Hurricane Katrina was a reason the airline decided to seek bankruptcy weeks before Wall Street expected it to do so.
 Yesterday, another airline in bankruptcy, Delta Air Lines, said it would cut another $3 billion in costs and eliminate as many as 9,000 more jobs over the next two years. Delta said it was also assuming oil prices of $68 a barrel for the rest of 2005, and warned it must be prepared in case prices spike again.
 ''We recognize the volatility of these assumptions,'' Delta's chief executive, Gerald Grinstein, said in a memorandum to employees. 
 Prices actually eased a bit yesterday, with crude oil for November delivery falling 0.5 percent, to $66.50 a barrel.
 Still, if prices stay high, industry analysts fear that more airlines could end up in bankruptcy protection, especially weak players like Independence Air, widely speculated to be on the verge of a Chapter 11 filing. 
 Those already in bankruptcy, like United, Northwest and Delta, could stay a long time, while those coming out, like US Airways, which plans to merge with AmericaWest, will probably face more cost pressures sooner than they expected. 
 Even relatively healthy airlines like American -- which cut its labor costs two years ago, but does not have protection against higher fuel prices -- will feel a bite of higher oil costs. 
 Unlike the competitive scene the last few years, which favored low-fare airlines with low costs, oil prices are an equal opportunity threat. 
 Except for a handful of carriers like Southwest, Spirit and AirTran, which locked in fuel prices in advance of this year's climb, the rest of the airlines, traditional and low-fare alike, lack significant protection to withstand additional price increases.
 They either opted not to buy or they unwound hedging contracts that would have provided a shield against higher fuel prices. The contracts must be purchased in cash, something in short supply across the industry, which has collectively lost more than $30 billion since 2001.
 Some specialists say the failure to hedge is a critical shortsightedness. 
 ''The airline industry is in a state of denial, hoping for lower fuel prices,'' said Hal Brierley, an industry consultant with Brierley & Partners in Dallas. 
 Mr. Brierley, who helped create American's frequent-flier program in the 1980's, and now runs e-Rewards, an online market research company, said the industry should prepare for $100-a-barrel oil.
 For his part, Mr. Kelly is severely critical of airlines that chose not to follow Southwest, the biggest low-fare airline, in arranging fuel hedges, which he calls energy insurance. 
 Even so, his airline's vaulted position will eventually erode: Southwest hedged 85 percent of its exposure to fuel costs but that protection will drop to 65 percent in 2006 and 30 percent in 2009. 
 ''We have bought ourselves time,'' Mr. Kelly said, ''but we'll need to prepare for higher energy prices.''
 Oil costs, meanwhile, are taking a toll in other ways. For consumers, the rise in oil prices is bound to mean higher ticket prices and fewer flights to cities where it costs airlines more to fly than they can recoup in fares. 
 Jeffrey Miller, a lawyer in Columbia, Md., who specializes in travel issues, predicted Hurricanes Katrina and Rita would force major airlines to add a fuel surcharge of $15 to $20 a ticket, whether or not they have hedged their fuel costs. ''I don't think they have any choice,'' he said. 
 But Robert W. Mann, an industry analyst in Port Washington, N.Y., said there was no guarantee that Southwest, which charges no more than $299 one-way, would cooperate. ''The airlines are limited by what Southwest is willing'' to do, Mr. Mann said.
 For airline employees, especially those at Delta and Northwest, higher oil prices undoubtedly will mean additional cuts. More than 44,000 jobs have been lost at airlines this year, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a Chicago job search firm.
 And, 2005 is shaping up to be the biggest year for airline job cuts since 2001, when the attacks in New York and Washington prompted airlines to eliminate nearly 100,000 jobs, the firm said.
 Despite spending nearly three years in bankruptcy protection, United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, is not joining the pessimists. In its reorganization plan, filed with a federal court two weeks ago, United said it expected to pay an average $50 a barrel for oil over the next few years. 
 The airline has not adjusted its forecast to reflect the hurricanes, Jean Medina, a United spokeswoman, said. ''We think it's a realistic number,'' she said, noting that the forecast is meant to be accurate over a long period of time and not reflect just short-term price fluctuations.
 Professor Brueckner agreed that the long view is important, especially when consumers are concerned. ''We're going to have airlines here 10 years from now; we're going to have airlines flying around the country,'' Professor Brueckner said. ''Maybe they will be the current set, maybe they'll be another set, but there's a great demand for air travel and it has to be satisfied. ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The recent jump in fuel costs is likely to increase pressure for higher fares and service cutbacks. (Photo by George Frey/Getty Images)(pg. C6)Graph shows oil prices (near-month contract) since April, 2005. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); HURRICANES (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); JET FUEL (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUSINESS PLANS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); AIR FARES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (71%); WEATHER (71%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%) Airlines and Airplanes; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Katrina (Storm); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Jet Fuel; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Organized Labor ; Airlines and Airplanes; Bankruptcies; Industry Profiles

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%) Delta Air Lines; Independence Air

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

PERSON: GARY C KELLY (92%) Gerald Grinstein; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



541 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE ENTREPRENEURS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: For Hotelier, Crisis Is Another Word for Opportunity

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Sept. 21 

 BODY:
For the first few days after Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans, F. Patrick Quinn III did what he could to help the displaced. He carted food and water to guests stranded at a hotel he owns on the edge of the French Quarter. He even ventured out on a dinghy to help a stranger in a futile attempt to rescue the man's brother, stranded in a flooded section of the city. 
 But Mr. Quinn, like a number of other entrepreneurs in the storm's path, quickly recognized that Katrina was not just an unprecedented disaster for New Orleans; it was also an unparalleled opportunity for people like him.
Working from dawn to well after dark every day, Mr. Quinn, a prominent local developer, has already made offers on more than 20 hotels in Louisiana and Mississippi to add to the 15 he owns in and around the French Quarter, operating under the name Decatur Hotels. 
 He has contacted home builders and an urban planner to help him figure out the cost of replacing certain flooded sections of the city with planned communities. And he has purchased more than 5,000 bunk beds to install in empty warehouses he has leased around New Orleans to create makeshift barracks to house cleanup crews and other blue-collar workers. 
 ''My wife kids me all the time,'' Mr. Quinn, 51, said. ''She tells me, 'You're complaining about the hours, but you absolutely love this.' And I do. I do love it.''
 Mr. Quinn, like hundreds of thousands of people across the Gulf Coast region, has been forced out of his home by Katrina -- and may suffer further setbacks after Hurricane Rita. Unlike most of them, though, he has the resources and initiative to bounce back bigger than ever. And by being so eager to gamble his fortune on the city's future, he could help New Orleans recover all the more quickly.
 But Mr. Quinn, known to his friends as Pat, also risks conveying the impression, particularly to the old-money types who still hold such powerful sway in New Orleans, that he is being crass and insensitive to the plight of others.
 ''People like Pat may come across as opportunistic and crossing the line,'' said Marc H. Morial, a former mayor of New Orleans who is now president of the National Urban League. ''But what you're really seeing is passion. He's passionate about seeing New Orleans come back. Someone like him could just liquidate and move on, but they're not, which is good news for New Orleans.''
 To those struggling just to get by, Mr. Quinn's sense of opportunity might seem almost otherworldly. Before Katrina, for example, Chawanna Santa Marina was living a comfortable middle-class life as a bank teller married to a man who ran his own siding business. 
 Today, the Santa Marinas and their two children are 4 of the 32 people stuffed into a four-bedroom home owned by her in-laws here in Baton Rouge. 
 ''We're sleeping on couches; we're sleeping on the floor,'' Ms. Santa Marina said. ''With all the air mattresses, when it's time to go to bed there's no more floor space.''
 To people like Mr. Quinn, by contrast, the Federal Emergency Management Agency offers not simply a lifeline but the chance of a lifetime.
 ''With any big disaster, dozens of companies start calling even as the disaster is still taking place,'' said David G. Passey, FEMA's main spokesman on Hurricane Katrina. ''They're looking for a piece of the action, or maybe it's better to say they want a piece of our business.'' 
 Mr. Quinn and several associates have joined the stampede. They have already reached out to officials inside FEMA that Mr. Quinn was able to identify through contacts at the Shaw Group, a large, well-connected construction and engineering company based here. Shaw has signed a $100 million contract with FEMA and another of similar size with the Army Corps of Engineers to help with the cleanup and rebuilding. 
 Mr. Quinn is hoping to persuade FEMA to house a good portion of the workers indefinitely in his newly created temporary barracks. He also hopes to house displaced residents of New Orleans and other affected areas in any of the 21 hotels he said he was negotiating to buy.
 ''We're giving people 48 hours to make a decision,'' Mr. Quinn said. Several have already said no. But ''three or four look like done deals,'' he said, and most are still considering the offer despite his ''take it or leave it'' stance.
 Dealing with FEMA, however, takes much longer. As of this week, Mr. Quinn said, he has not yet received a firm commitment from it or any other government agency.
 ''It's always tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow,'' he said with frustration. The main holdup, he has been told, is the General Services Administration, which is responsible for central purchasing. ''Apparently the people over at G.S.A. think that everybody is running and gunning, and their job is to keep order.''
 The hurricane has taken a great toll on Mr. Quinn, to be sure. The hotels he owned before the hurricane, while suffering only minor damage, have been without paying customers while he continues to write checks to the scores of people he has already hired to clean them up.
 His home in Old Metairie, an exclusive suburb just west of New Orleans, is a white palace whose front exterior, with several Corinthian columns, calls to mind the Pantheon in Rome. It was flooded by three feet of water; a number of precious antiques were destroyed.
 Yet through his network of well-heeled friends, Mr. Quinn found a stately two-story brick home to rent in Baton Rouge -- and was then impelled to buy it because the owner was receiving so many enticing offers. The house has a swimming pool, a rose garden and an expansive lawn large enough to hold a touch football game. The ground floor has been converted into makeshift offices for most of the 10 or so people whom Mr. Quinn has put on the payroll to help him carry out his various post-hurricane activities. 
 ''It's dangerous to be one of my friends or a member of my family,'' he joked. ''Everyone is working now.''
 His oldest son, F. Patrick Quinn IV, 27, whom everyone calls Frank, is in charge of handling the countless requests for housing coming from everyone from law enforcement officials to insurance companies to Wal-Mart. 
 Because other hotel operators were slow off the mark, the Quinns have also taken on a new business as booking agents, charging other hoteliers a commission for passing along leads. 
 Their big advantage, Frank Quinn said, is that his father, who spent tens of thousands of dollars on roughly half a dozen satellite phones almost immediately after the flooding began, was already looking ahead to the business opportunities inherent in rebuilding while potential rivals were still in a daze. 
 ''There are a ton of hoteliers that are just waking up,'' he said, ''while we've been running for two and a half weeks already.'' 
 A childhood friend of Mr. Quinn's has taken a six-month leave from an executive position to oversee negotiations with FEMA and other federal agencies. Others in Mr. Quinn's circle are filling a range of posts, from the family friend who is serving as one of his two personal assistants to a disbarred lawyer who has long helped Mr. Quinn negotiate the byzantine back hallways of New Orleans government. 
 ''There's tons of opportunity there,'' Frank Quinn said. ''We just have to work hard to capture the business.'' 
 The Quinns recognize that there is a fine line between turning a disaster into a business opportunity and exploiting it. Though they could charge far more for their hotel rooms given current market conditions, they say that they have decided to charge no more than $20 above the going government rate of $133 a night a room.
 At this time of the year, the Quinns would normally be charging a weekend nightly rate of $179 to $299 a room, they say, depending on the week and the hotel. 
 ''Obviously we're trying to do the best we can for our company,'' Frank Quinn said. ''But there's always the possibility for a win-win. If I can help a customer get into a place to stay a month earlier, he can work a month extra.'' 
 Others, however, are not being so reasonable, they say. The elder Mr. Quinn described his experience with a friend, a fellow developer he called one week after the floodwaters hit the city about buying a long-abandoned property. 
 The property had been listed at $5.5 million for more than a year, Mr. Quinn said. At that price, ''nobody wanted it.'' But when he called one week after the hurricane, his friend's price was $6.5 million.
 That bothered Mr. Quinn, but it is not surprising that starkly different conditions of supply and demand have pushed prices up sharply. After all, if Mr. Quinn is able to acquire property at a bargain, there would be nothing to stop him from turning around and selling it to an eager buyer for more. 
 ''There's no doubt in my mind in a free market economy that certain people see a disaster as an opportunity to make a lot of money,'' said J. Stephen Perry, the chief executive of the New Orleans Convention and Visitors Bureau. ''There's no way around it.'' 
 In the South, where the legacy of the Civil War still looms large, it is said that a ''scallywag'' is someone local who takes advantage of a bad situation, while a ''carpetbagger'' is an outsider who does the same.
 It is the carpetbaggers, the elder Mr. Quinn said, who he believes are exploiting the situation unmercifully. He cited his brief negotiations for a portable shower truck outfitted with eight stalls.
 ''It was $55,000,'' Mr. Quinn said. ''Before the storm, that truck was probably sitting in storage somewhere, and I'm guessing the guy would have taken $25,000 for it. 
 ''But the guy said, 'You want it, $55,000. If not, I'll sell it to the next guy in five minutes.''' 
 For his part, Mr. Quinn said he was no kind of scallywag. Not only is he getting lodging ready for workers who are coming in to clean up and rebuild New Orleans, but he is also taking on big risks in the chaotic post-hurricane atmosphere, which could become even worse if the levees fail again because of Rita's impact.
 ''There's a 50-50 chance I'll come out of this financially better,'' he said. ''But there's a 50 percent chance I'll come out broke.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Patrick Quinn, a New Orleans developer, listening in on a call to his son, Frank. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Frank Quinn, on the phone, and Bruce Perone, a manager at the Astor Crowne Plaza, inside a bus that serves as a mobile office for the Quinn hotel business, which is seeking to provide lodging for relief workers. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Map of New Orleans highlighting Quinn's hotels: Patrick Quinn operates 15 hotels and guest quarters within the city. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); DIVESTITURES (74%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Floods; Hotels and Motels; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: Decatur Hotels

PERSON: F Patrick III Quinn; Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (99%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



542 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Little House on the Flood Plain

 BODY:
President Bush has a job of historic proportions in trying to provide homes for the hundreds of thousands of people left homeless by Hurricane Katrina, many of them very badly housed before the storm. So far, we've heard some good ideas and some terrible ones, but none address the huge scale of the problem.
 In his big speech from New Orleans last week, Mr. Bush talked about an Urban Homesteading Act, which would dole out parcels of federal land in return for each participant's commitment to build a home. It's a fine concept, but like many solutions to big problems from small-government Republicans, it addresses only the tiniest and most self-reliant sliver of the evacuees. 
The name seems to have been chosen to make us think of the ''Little House on the Prairie,'' but the Ingalls family had it good compared with the Katrina refugees. For one thing, there was a lot more land at their disposal. The main landlord for the homesteading property -- the Housing and Urban Development Department -- has identified only about 4,000 suitable properties in the region, including about 1,000 in the New Orleans area. Other federal agencies are supposed to be searching their books for properties.
 Similar plans have worked in Baltimore and New York, where local authorities turned abandoned or foreclosed-on houses over to low-income residents with the understanding that they would fix them up and occupy them. But it can't be said enough: this is a solution on a small, small scale. 
 For the real, larger challenge -- a quarter-million families displaced in New Orleans alone -- we want to see HUD officials try to harness the world's most sophisticated real estate community, including builders, developers and minority bankers. But so far, there is no evidence of that happening. Part of the reason for that may be that Mr. Bush has left seven top positions vacant at HUD.
 The administration has also offered a bizarre proposal to put people in mobile homes and travel trailers, scattered like driftwood throughout the gulf states. Trailer parks may make some sense for workers at the Port of New Orleans and for the thousands of National Guard troops brought in to help with the cleanup and the rebuilding. And they may be a quick way to get poorer people out of shelters -- but only for the shortest time. The Bush administration can't seriously consider putting displaced low-income people in trailer parks for any prolonged period. That would just condemn an already traumatized population to insecure hurricane ghettos -- hardly the bold action to ''let us rise above the legacy of inequality'' that Mr. Bush promised in his speech last week.
 If the president wants serious ideas that can have a quick and lasting impact, he should consider a voucher program, similar to the one President Bill Clinton put in place in Southern California in 1994 after the Northridge earthquake displaced more than 20,000 people. The government provided emergency vouchers that recipients could apply toward rent all over the state. The point was to break up pockets of poverty so the displaced weren't all funneled toward housing projects or ghettos. Instead, they could join the broader society in neighborhoods with services like schools and hospitals -- and jobs. 
 ''This Katrina situation is tailor-made for housing vouchers,'' said Bruce Katz, a former Clinton housing official who is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''You could get a voucher in New Orleans and move to Alaska if you wanted.''
 That's hyperbole, but more realistic than moving all those people to refugee trailer parks, or handing them copies of ''Little House on the Prairie.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRAILER PARKS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); CITIES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Housing; Editorials; Vouchers; Mobile Homes; Homesteading; Renting and Leasing; Katrina (Storm); Law and Legislation; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



543 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: The Danger Next Door

BYLINE: By Seth G. Jones. 
Seth G. Jones, a political scientist at the RAND Corporation, is the author of ''Establishing Law and Order After Conflict.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
THE Sept. 18 elections for Parliament and provincial councils were an important step in Afghanistan's march toward democracy. But now that progress is threatened by an increasingly violent insurgency that uses Pakistan as a staging area for attacks. Unless the United States and Pakistan take steps to eliminate this sanctuary, the security situation in Afghanistan will continue to deteriorate and undermine the country's fragile democracy.
 This year has been the most violent in Afghanistan since the United States helped overthrow the Taliban government in 2001. The number of Americans killed so far in 2005 (74) is a 570 percent increase from 2001 and a 50 percent increase from 2004. In addition, the number of insurgent attacks against Afghan civilians has steadily increased each year since 2001. 
Unlike the violence in Iraq, the fighting in Afghanistan is not the result of a local population deeply hostile to American forces. A 2004 opinion poll by the Asia Foundation showed that 65 percent of Afghans had a favorable view of the United States government, and 67 percent had a favorable view of the American military -- findings supported by my own observations and data from trips to the region during the last three years.
 Nor is the fighting in Afghanistan the result of a failing American political and military strategy. American conventional and Special Forces have conducted effective strike operations and civic action programs that have undermined Taliban, Qaeda and Hezb-i-Islami insurgents and their local support network in Afghanistan. 
 Instead, a complex support network in Pakistan is the key to the Afghan insurgency's survival. Taliban insurgents in southern Afghanistan get supplies and help in Pakistani provinces like North-West Frontier and Baluchistan. Numerous captured Taliban prisoners have said they received training in Pakistani areas like the Mansehra district. Even more troubling, evidence suggests that Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence directorate has helped Taliban insurgents. 
 How can the insurgent sanctuary in Pakistan be eliminated?
 First, Pakistani border police can strengthen controls along the Afghan-Pakistani border. American Special Forces have played a critical role in stopping infiltrators and training Afghans to patrol their borders over the last two years. But greater Pakistani participation is needed to block insurgents and their supplies.
 Second, Pakistani forces can conduct an unconventional war that undermines popular support for the insurgents, captures or kills leaders and guerrillas, and destroys their support network. New Taliban recruits have replaced those killed or captured. Operating behind the scenes in deference to Pakistani sensitivities, the United States could help by providing intelligence and surveillance during the campaign.
 Of course, President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan faces serious obstacles to wiping out the insurgent base of support in his country. Since the 9/11 attacks, he has placated the West with unfulfilled promises of reform and crackdowns on extremists and simultaneously catered to Islamic political parties in order to retain their support.
 Pushing Mr. Musharraf and Pakistan to act will require finding pressure points. Perhaps the most significant is tying American assistance to Pakistani cooperation. The United States gives Pakistan more than $700 million in military and economic assistance each year. This assistance covers areas like health, economic development, trade and law enforcement. The United States could tie continued assistance in some of these areas -- as well as implicit American support in multilateral bodies like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund -- to progress in defeating Afghan insurgents and their support network. 
 The United States can also focus on a second pressure point. President Musharraf wields power through a military government that seized control in 1999. Washington has been remarkably quiet about the shortcomings of democracy in Pakistan. In the absence of cooperation on counterinsurgency, the United States can and should increase pressure on Pakistan to pursue democratic reforms.
 With the election of Hamid Karzai as president last year and last week's legislative voting, Afghanistan has made enormous political strides. It would be a shame to see this progress unravel through no fault of Afghanistan's, but through the failure of one of its neighbors to act and of the United States to do anything about it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); POLITICS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA FOUNDATION (56%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (79%) Seth G Jones; Pervez (Pres) Musharraf

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Pakistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



544 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Scalia Defends Government's Right to Deny Art Funds

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Justice Antonin Scalia of the United States Supreme Court made an unusual appearance at the Juilliard School yesterday and defended the government's right to deny funds for art it disapproves of, elaborating in person on what he has written on the bench. 
 He told reporters that choosing what art to subsidize is no different than the stances the government takes all the time in other areas.
''The First Amendment has not repealed the basic rule of life, that he who pays the piper calls the tune,'' Justice Scalia said. ''When you place the government in charge of funding art, just as when you place the government in charge of providing education, somebody has to pick the content of what art is going to be funded, what subjects are going to be taught. 
 ''The only way to eliminate any government choice on what art is worthwhile, what art isn't worthwhile, is to get the government totally out of the business of funding,'' he said.
 In a 1998 decision, Justice Scalia wrote a concurring opinion upholding a Congressional decency test for grants awarded by the National Endowment for the Arts, which was at the center of a furor over grants to Andres Serrano, Robert Mapplethorpe, Karen Finley and others.
 The idea was not new, but the circumstances were. The justice, an opera lover and a strict conservative, was part of a Juilliard symposium on American society and the arts that put him in the company of the soprano Renee Fleming, the composer and lyricist Stephen Sondheim, and the historian David McCullough. He acknowledged the incongruity.
 ''The program reads like some kind of weird I.Q. test: 'Which of the following is out of place: diva, author, composer, lawyer,''' he told the audience at the Juilliard Theater. ''The main business of a lawyer is to take the romance, the mystery, the irony, the ambiguity out of everything he touches.''
 Justice Scalia expounded on his view that the First Amendment has limited application to artistic expression; of the importance of copyright law and the nature of fair use of creative materials. With Juilliard's president, Joseph Polisi, as moderator, the participants ranged over issues like the difference between art and entertainment, commercial pressures on art, and art as an expression of history.
 The tone was often jocular and nonconfrontational, but with a genteel strain of debate between Justice Scalia and Mr. Sondheim.
 It began at the news conference, when the justice was asked to follow some generic comments by Mr. Sondheim about the difference between ''Art with a capital A'' and ''art with a small a.'' ''I concur,'' Justice Scalia said simply. ''I take it back,'' Mr. Sondheim quickly rejoined with a smile.
 Later, Justice Scalia returned to the idea that denying funds to some artists was unavoidable, because choices must be made. When Mr. Polisi said that National Endowment grants were peer-reviewed, Mr. Sondheim said, ''The problem with choices is who does the choosing, and who chooses the choosers, and that's where you get into a thicket.''
 In response to a question from the audience on how to increase arts attendance by minorities, Justice Scalia said that a ''large number'' of minority children come from broken homes and do not have the parental attention they need to push for interest in the arts. But race has nothing to do with it, he said.
 Mr. Sondheim said the cause was also economic. ''Tickets are expensive,'' he said.
 They even parted ways in a discussion of the definition of art. Mr. Sondheim said one element was a work's ability to endure. Justice Scalia said that the Abbott and Costello routine ''Who's on First?'' would certainly last a long time. But ''it will never be art!'' he said.
 The composer took issue with the example, saying it was not that old and that half the people in the theater probably did not even know it. Justice Scalia called for a show of hands, and many shot up. ''Ask anybody under 30,'' Mr. Sondheim said. ''They won't know.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about an arts symposium in which Justice Antonin Scalia defended the government's right to deny funds for art of which it disapproves referred incorrectly to a debated grant by the National Endowment for the Arts. It was given to the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia for a traveling exhibit of the photographs of Robert Mapplethorpe, not to Mapplethorpe himself.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Stephen Sondheim, David McCullough, Renee Fleming, Justice Antonin Scalia and Joseph Polisi in a discussion yesterday at Juilliard. (Photo by Joe Tabacca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); SUPREME COURTS (79%); LAWYERS (79%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); WRITERS (77%); COPYRIGHT LAW (76%); COPYRIGHT (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); MUSICAL THEATER (70%); HISTORY (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



545 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Trump Unveils Condo Plan in Jersey City 

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, Sept. 22 

 BODY:
With a trio of trumpeters playing a fanfare, Donald J. Trump on Thursday helped unveil an artist's rendering of his latest project, Trump Plaza: Jersey City. The new luxury condominium development would be the tallest residential development in the state.
 The $415 million project will include two towers, 50 stories and 55 stories, with 862 condominium units and 23,000 square feet of retail space. The towers will be at Washington and Bay Streets, a few blocks from the Hudson River and near the Powerhouse Arts District. ''It really cements Jersey City as the hottest place to be in the Northeast,'' said Mayor Jerramiah T. Healy. ''It's a big step in the great progress Jersey City has made in the past years.'' Each condo unit will receive a 20-year property tax abatement, but Mr. Healy said the city would receive more money from development and building fees the developers paid than the city would have received in property taxes. 
The Trump Organization will manage the complex, which will include a business center, and amenities for residents like a movie theater, an 8,000-square-foot fitness center, and a heated outdoor rooftop pool. Apartments will feature marble bathrooms and exotic wood floors. 
 The price of the units, which will range in size from 750 to 2,224 square feet, has not been determined, said Dean Scott Geibel, founder of Metro Homes L.L.C., a developer from Hoboken. He noted that the units will be cheaper than comparable condos in Manhattan. At Grandview, another of Mr. Geibel's residential projects in Jersey City, farther from the waterfront, condominiums sold for about $600 a square foot, with a range of $289,000 to $906,000, and all but one unit has sold since it opened last year, a spokesman for Metro Homes said. 
 Mr. Geibel called the project ''a poster child for smart growth,'' because of its proximity to PATH stations, light rail, and the ferry to Manhattan. 
 Barbara Netchert, the executive director of the Jersey City Redevelopment Agency, said earlier plans called for office space development on the property, which is now a parking lot and had been a warehouse and rail yards. 
 ''It was converted to residential, as has most of the projects in the city,'' she said. ''The office market was flat, and the economics were moving more for residential.''
 Mayor Healy called the project a benchmark for the city. ''We've done great for the last 20 years, but this takes it to another level,'' he said. Mr. Trump, who three times declared himself the biggest developer in New York City, a description his competitors dispute, noted that in moving west of Manhattan, he was going against the usual developer's path, ''but I've usually been pretty good at predicting trends.'' Construction is expected to start in two months and last two years. Mr. Trump estimated that 1,200 to 1,300 workers would be employed in the construction. At 560 feet, the tallest of the towers would still rank below the state's tallest building, the 781-foot Goldman Sachs tower nearby at 30 Hudson Street.
 At one point before the project's picture was unveiled, a gust of wind flipped Mr. Trump's swooping hair. 
 ''See, my hair is real, folks,'' he said. ''If it weren't, with this wind, you'd have a much bigger story than these two buildings, there's no doubt in my mind.''
 Real hair or not, Mr. Trump impressed city leaders.
 ''As a New York mogul, when he crosses the river, it's a magic step,'' said the city council president, Mariano Vega.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald J. Trump battled the wind yesterday at the unveiling of a $415 million luxury condo project, Trump Plaza: Jersey City. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
 Rendering of Trump Plaza: Jersey City, near the Hudson River. (Photo by Metro Homes, LLC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (92%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); FILM (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (68%); TAX LAW (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



546 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 826 words

 BODY:

Sony Will Eliminate 10,000 Jobs And Says It Will Post a Loss for the Year
Sir Howard Stringer, the chief executive of the Sony Corporation, unveiled a turnaround plan that would cut 10,000 jobs, shed unprofitable products and centralize decision-making. Sony also said it expected to post its first annual loss this year in more than a decade. [Page C1.]

Houston's Economy Comes to a Halt as Storm Nears
Facing a potentially devastating hit from Hurricane Rita, the Houston-area economy ground to a halt as more than four million residents evacuated the city and other nearby coastal areas on clogged highways, which were made worse by motorists stranded as gasoline ran short. [C1.]

S.E.C. Investigating Altera Over Response to Analysts
The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating Altera, a California chip maker, over its retaliation this year against Wall Street analysts who were less than bullish on the company's shares. [C1.]

In New Orleans, Opportunity After Disaster
Like other entrepreneurs, J. Patrick Quinn III, a prominent New Orleans developer, quickly recognized that Hurricane Katrina was not just an unprecedented disaster for New Orleans; it was an unparalleled opportunity. [C1.]

Roofers, drywallers, plumbers and other contractors from across the country are descending on the Gulf Coast area in search of work. [C5.]

The economy softened in August even before Hurricane Katrina struck, and the storm sent weekly first-time unemployment claims to a two-year high, separate reports showed. [C13.]

Verizon Begins Offering Television Service
Verizon Communications began taking orders for its new television service, which the company hopes will draw business away from cable and satellite providers. As part of a national strategy, about 9,000 Verizon customers in Keller, Tex., will be the first to subscribe to the television service, called FiOS TV. The service in Keller is part of Verizon's plan to compete head-on with cable companies that in the last 18 months have started selling digital phone lines. [C3.]

Winfrey Returns to Newer Authors for Book Club
Oprah Winfrey said that she was expanding her highly influential book club to include once again the works of contemporary authors, reversing a policy of choosing only classic works -- a policy that disappointed publishers and authors who had benefited from her choices. [A1.]

Italy's Economics Minister Resigns
The government of Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, was thrown into disarray as his economy minister, Domenico Siniscalco, resigned after failing to oust Italy's discredited central bank chief, Antonio Fazio. [C2.]

Finance Committee Is Investigating Guidant
Senator Charles E. Grassley, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, has notified Guidant that his committee was investigating whether the company, which makes medical devices, had violated a 2003 agreement that required it to alert the government to product problems. [C3.]

Oracle Reports Flat Quarterly Profit
The Oracle Corporation, the software maker, said its first-quarter profit was flat because of sluggish growth in its database business. [C3.]

After TV Shows Appear, Martha Stewart Stock Falls
It is not yet clear how well Martha Stewart's new television shows will do, but one thing has become apparent: since the shows began appearing, investors in Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia have been selling. Advertising. [C3.]

Delta Says It Plans $3 Billion More in Cost-Cutting
Delta Air Lines, which filed for bankruptcy protection last week, said that it planned to cut another $3 billion in costs, partly by reducing the pay and benefits of all employees, including its chief executive. The airline said it would eliminate as many as 9,000 more jobs over the next two years. [C6.]

The aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and the looming landfall of Rita, which threatens about one-quarter of the nation's jet fuel supply, are raising fears that the latest round of pain for airlines is just beginning. [C1.]

Soaring oil prices are giving a temporary lift to the fortunes of aircraft manufacturers because of a demand for more economical planes, the chief executive of Airbus, Gustav Humbert, said. ''The higher the oil price, the greater the demand for more fuel-efficient aircraft,'' said Mr. Humbert. Airbus and its rival, Boeing, are enjoying a bumper year for orders of aircraft, propelled in part by their competing midsize, long-distance planes, the Boeing 787 and the Airbus A350. [C2.]

Major U.S. Stock Indicators Show Gains
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 44.02 points, to 10,422.05. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 4.42, 1,214.62, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 4.14, or 0.2 percent, to 2,110.78. [C6.]

Group May Be Closer to Building Nuclear Reactors
A consortium said it would spend about $100 million to prepare applications to build two nuclear reactors, in Mississippi and Alabama, a step that seems to move the industry closer to its first reactor order since the 1970's. [C3.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Verizon share prices since July, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); WRITERS (87%); BOOK CLUBS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (69%); DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (66%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (63%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); MEDICAL DEVICES (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); ORACLE CORP (82%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (82%); VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%)

PERSON: HOWARD STRINGER (74%); OPRAH WINFREY (63%); PAT QUINN (51%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (50%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005



547 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: To Be Better, New Orleans, Think Smaller

BYLINE: By JOSEPH NOCERA

 BODY:
AT the turn of the last century, Galveston, Tex., was one of the most important cities west of the Mississippi. With a population of 38,000, it had a critical port, a thriving banking sector and more wealth per capita than just about anyplace else in America. Its streets were paved with oyster shells that shined in the moonlight.
 Then, on Sept. 8, 1900, Galveston was struck by a hurricane that killed thousands and flattened the city. It never recovered. The merchants, the bankers and all sorts of other service-sector workers fled to Houston, never to return. Businesses died. The port shrank to nothingness. ''Galveston was left without a tax base,'' said Paul Burka, senior executive editor of Texas Monthly (and a Galveston native). Houston went on to become the city that Galveston had once aspired to be.
At the turn of this century, New Orleans could hardly have been more different from the Galveston of 100 years ago. Yes, New Orleans had a critical port, and yes, it had one thriving industry, tourism, built around jazz and food and Mardi Gras. But its biggest employer was not a company; it was a college, Tulane University. And its only Fortune 500 company was Entergy, which is essentially the local utility. Its appalling poverty, lack of decent schools, insular culture and hostile business climate have long scared away companies, both large and small. 
 Yet in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, and now, it appears, Hurricane Rita, New Orleans is about to face many of the same problems that plagued Galveston after its natural disaster. Swatches of the city now lie in a toxic stew; they won't be habitable again for years -- if ever. Businesses are shuttered. Thousands of people who have fled aren't coming back. In Baton Rouge, companies and refugees who had been in New Orleans a month ago are buying office space and housing stock, relocating on the fly.
 And everyone has an anecdote that makes it clear how hard it will be to rebuild the New Orleans economy. 
 ''My niece was a consultant in New Orleans,'' said the legendary venture capitalist Benjamin M. Rosen, who was born in the city. ''Her records are gone. Her building is gone. But more than that, her clients are gone.'' Douglas Brinkley, the Tulane historian who is already working on a history of Katrina, told me that ''a lot of professionals won't come back.''
 ''My wife and kids were born in New Orleans,'' he added, ''and right now I'm planning to come back. But I'm worried about health concerns. I don't want to return to Three Mile Island.''
 And so the question: Can New Orleans avoid the fate of Galveston a century ago?
 ONE advantage the New Orleans of 2005 has over the Galveston of 1900 is federal money. The Bush administration, having bungled the crisis, has already shown that it is going to atone for its sins by spending tens of billions of dollars to get the Gulf Coast back on its feet.
 But federal money alone is not likely to attract businesses -- not even the president's planned ''gulf opportunity zone'' will do much to create jobs in New Orleans.
 Nor is the city going to suddenly develop, post-hurricane, an entrepreneurial side; the go-go business culture that characterizes so many southern cities is just not part of New Orleans' makeup.
 What will help New Orleans is that the businesses that have grown up around its port have no choice but to rebuild; after all, you can't relocate a refinery to Atlanta. Besides, pointed out Henry F. Owsley, ''The United States transportation infrastructure is entirely based on the premise that there will be cheap water transport through the inland river system.'' Which means that the tens of thousands of jobs that are directly or indirectly tied to the port will come back, and probably fairly quickly.
 Mr. Owsley is himself a New Orleans native and a co-founder of the Gordian Group, a New York investment bank that specializes in bankruptcy and restructuring deals. Like many New Orleans ex-pats, he spent the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Katrina tracking down friends and family and offering what help he could from afar. But as he began to realize that many of his friends were likely to relocate permanently to their new cities, he began to think about what it would take to rebuild New Orleans.
 ''New Orleans is a little like a bankrupt company,'' he said. ''You have to think of it like a restructuring: what can be revived and what can't?'' He believes the legal community will largely disappear, and the universities, including Tulane, will shrink drastically as they lose both professors and students. ''The universities may eventually have to serve a largely local clientele for years to come,'' he said. And the city's health care sector, which had been one of its few growth areas, will suffer similarly, ''because the medical facilities are so tied into the universities.''
 Which doesn't leave much else besides tourism. No one doubts that the tourism industry will be revived and remain the anchor of the local economy. The main tourist areas were the least damaged by Hurricane Katrina, and well-known restaurateurs like Emeril Lagasse are vowing to reopen their restaurants as quickly as possible. The hotel industry is making similar noises.
 The problem with tourism, though, is that most of the jobs are low paying -- and it's not exactly an engine of growth. Mr. Owsley believes that one way to kick-start tourism would be to increase casino gambling significantly. The city already has one casino, which has not been particularly successful. But as Mr. Owsley points out, that casino is not part of a hotel, and ''the Las Vegas model, which works well, has casinos that are attached to hotels.'' He thinks gambling would be a natural extension of New Orleans' already ribald reputation among tourists. He described his vision as ''an adult Disneyland.''
 Not surprisingly, Mr. Owsley's plan is fairly controversial. 
 The state government has long been hostile to casino gambling in New Orleans, and it is likely to meet with resistance among many natives as well. Mr. Rosen, for instance, frowned when I asked him what he thought about expanding gambling in New Orleans. ''The social costs are higher than the benefits,'' he replied. ''It's a quick fix.'' Walter Isaacson, the New Orleans native who now runs the Aspen Institute, is stressing instead the idea of establishing New Orleans as a center of ''creative'' enterprises -- hip architecture firms and art galleries and so on -- more Santa Fe than Las Vegas.
 What seems inevitable, though, is that with only two remaining pillars to the local economy -- tourism and the port -- New Orleans, like Galveston before it, will become smaller, with perhaps a half to two-thirds of its former population. That's the harsh reality.
 But unlike Galveston, that could wind up being a good thing. ''We're going to be smaller and more compact, and tax revenues are going to be down,'' said Joseph C. Canizaro, who runs both a local bank and a commercial real estate company. ''That means the local government is going have to run more efficiently''-- in sharp contrast to its longtime reputation. And the population has long been too large for the jobs its economy generated, which is one reason the city was so poor.
 Indeed, in some important ways, Hurricane Katrina offers a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to make things better, in part because of the smaller population. The people who are going be working in those minimum-wage jobs in the tourism industry are going to need a place to live. And they'll need schools to educate their children. ''It creates an opportunity to get rid of some of the awful housing and replace it with something that will be new and safe and affordable,'' Mr. Brinkley said. ''And if the population can stay around 300,000,'' down from the pre-hurricane population of 460,000, ''there is a chance that the school system could be good.'' 
 Clearly the federal money that will be pouring into New Orleans should go toward good low-income housing and upgrading the schools, as well as improving the levee system. That's what will make New Orleans attractive to business, far more than tax breaks.
 Next week, Mayor C. Ray Nagin is expected to announce the formation of a commission to put together a plan to rebuild New Orleans. No doubt he and other local and state politicians will talk bravely about making the city bigger and better than ever. Let's hope they don't mean the former. For New Orleans, smaller is going to be better. In fact, smaller may be the city's only hope.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Coming back? (pg. C1)
 Galveston, Tex., shortly after a hurricane tore through on Sept. 8, 1900. Parallels have been drawn between Galveston and New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HISTORY (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); WEATHER (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); TRENDS (74%); REFUGEES (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); EXECUTIVES (54%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Rita (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Joseph Nocera

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (98%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (98%); LOUISIANA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Galveston (Tex); Gulf of Mexico; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



548 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: For Wolfowitz, Poverty Is the Newest War to Fight 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
Three months into his new job as president of the World Bank, Paul D. Wolfowitz caused heartburn this week for some former colleagues in the Bush administration.
 As finance ministers from around the world began three days of discussions here on Friday, officials closed in on an international agreement to wipe out $18 billion in debt for some of the world's poorest countries. [Page C6.] 
But that agreement came only after Mr. Wolfowitz publicly sided this week with officials from other countries who warned that the United States might back away from the full cost of debt relief for the poorest countries. 
 The quiet power struggle is part of Mr. Wolfowitz's transformation from an architect of the United States' war in Iraq to a champion for the world's poor.
 Mr. Wolfowitz repeatedly called this week for ''stronger commitments'' by rich countries to reimburse the World Bank for lost loan repayments. He also pointedly suggested that Congress demonstrate American commitment by passing an authorization bill to cover the future costs. 
 ''It's not that they aren't sincere,'' he told a group of reporters. ''But time passes, and I think it's very important to keep them accountable.''
 American officials said that the United States made good on its promises. Hoping to mollify countries like the Netherlands, which was quietly backed by Mr. Wolfowitz, the United States produced a joint letter promising to reimburse the World Bank dollar-for-dollar on all lost repayments.
 Since taking over at the World Bank, Mr. Wolfowitz has called on rich countries to provide more foreign aid. He has cultivated ties with antipoverty groups like Oxfam International and Data, the advocacy group founded by Bono, the rock star.
 He has placed a new priority on Africa, but he also talks about goals like expanding opportunities for women, fighting corruption and improving governance in poor countries.
 ''It's not just about inputs of capital and labor,'' he said. ''It's about a whole range of factors, and many are not traditional economic ones.''
 Not surprisingly, Mr. Wolfowitz has gone out of his way to reassure political leaders and antipoverty advocates who expressed concern that he would turn the World Bank into a tool of American ideology.
 Some longtime campaigners against global poverty, often sharp critics of American policy, say their first impression has been good.
 ''It appears that he is committed to health and education, which are nearly all of the millennium development goals,'' said Max Lawson, policy adviser to Oxfam International, referring to goals on poverty reduction and education spelled out by members of the United Nations. ''We'll be watching him very closely over the next few months to see whether he follows up on that.''
 But some experts said they were worried that Mr. Wolfowitz might prove too ambitious. If there is a link between his role in the Iraq war and his role at the World Bank, they caution, it may be in his fervent belief in the ability to impose democracy on countries from the outside.
 ''The idea that you can spread democracy by either military intervention or through the World Bank is folly, pure folly,'' said William Easterly, a former director of research at the World Bank and a critic of the bank's policy failures.
 ''What I'm afraid of is that the World Bank will have more of what it already suffers from, which is mission creep -- getting involved in sweeping international causes that sound good without any evidence to show they can be accomplished.''
 Mr. Wolfowitz has not forgotten about Iraq. Earlier this week, he confirmed a report in The Washington Post that he was considering sending World Bank staff members into Baghdad for the first time in two years. The bank has pledged about $500 million in aid to Iraq, but withdrew its people after insurgents blew up the United Nation's mission there and killed its top envoy.
 Still, Mr. Wolfowitz, the former deputy secretary of defense, has focused most of his attention elsewhere. He traveled to Africa in the summer, shortly after taking over the bank, and declared that it would be a ''special emphasis'' for the bank.
 Moving cautiously, he has often sounded the same themes as his predecessor, James D. Wolfensohn. Like Mr. Wolfensohn, Mr. Wolfowitz talks about the importance of reducing corruption in poor countries and promoting opportunities for women. 
 But he has also hinted at a heavier emphasis on new agriculture technology, promoting the idea of a ''green revolution'' for Africa. And he has hinted at a renewed emphasis on infrastructure like roads, water systems and power plants.
 Infrastructure projects are a sensitive issue for the World Bank, which retreated from them after being criticized for financing giant bridges and dams that critics said did little to relieve poverty and damaged the environment.
 ''We've learned a lot from our past mistakes,'' Mr. Wolfowitz acknowledged this week. But, he said, entrepreneurs and farmers could not begin to realize their potential if they lacked electricity, clean water or roads to move their products to market.
 The World Bank makes $18 billion to $20 billion in loans and grants a year to low-income countries. But its finances depend on loan repayments and fresh donations from wealthy nations. For all its size, its scale is small in comparison with the private investment that flows through Latin America and Asia.
 ''I don't hear any new vision yet,'' said Nancy Birdsall, founder of the Center on Global Development, a nonpartisan research organization here. ''The big issues are not about internal management but about what the role of the World Bank is going to be in the 21st century. Right now, the banks products are still 1960's-style products -- loans to governments, infrastructure loans.'' 
 Few people would argue that Mr. Wolfowitz, a former dean of Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, is short on ideas. 
 But supporters of increased aid to poor countries, including those who adamantly opposed Mr. Wolfowitz's role in invading Iraq, said this week that his vision for the future might be less important right now than his close relationship to President Bush.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul D. Wolfowitz called this week for ''stronger commitments'' by rich countries to reimburse the World Bank for lost loan repayments and suggested that Congress authorize a bill to cover the future costs. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TRENDS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); IRAQ WAR (69%); CORRUPTION (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; United States International Relations; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: BONO (54%) Paul Wolfowitz; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NETHERLANDS (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



549 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE SHUTDOWN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Day of Jitters for Companies Even as Worst Fears Ease 

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER; Reporting for this article was contributed by Alexei Barrionuevo in Chicago and Claudia H. Deutsch, Julie Creswell and Vikas Bajaj in New York.

 BODY:
Energy prices tumbled yesterday and share prices edged up as Hurricane Rita appeared to weaken, stirring hopes that the storm will cause less damage than expected to refineries and other energy operations along the Gulf Coast. 
 ''It's down to a Category 3 now,'' said James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management. ''That probably won't be all that damaging to the oil facilities.'' Yet even as the storm weakened, businesses and investors remained concerned about the potential disruption to an energy infrastructure still crippled last month by Hurricane Katrina. 
Crude oil futures for November fell $2.31 yesterday, to $64.19 a barrel in New York trading. The October contract for natural gas fell 46 cents, to $12.32 a cubic foot, while the October gasoline contract fell more than 5 cents, to just over $2.08 a gallon.
 The Gulf of Mexico accounts for about 28.5 percent of the nation's crude oil production and 60 percent of crude imports; 47 percent of the country's refining capacity and 20 percent of its natural gas supply. Four refineries that were shut after Hurricane Katrina remain closed. So it is unsurprising that as the latest storm approached, economists focused on the energy industry. 
 ''A loss of another 5 percent of refining capacity for an extended period that sends the gasoline price to $4, would hit consumer spending power by knocking around 1.5 percent off real disposable incomes,'' according to an analysis by economic research firm Global Insight. ''A more severe disruption would likely mean not just higher gasoline prices but widespread shortages and lines at the pump -- causing major disruption to normal economic activity.''
 As the Gulf Coast prepared for Hurricane Rita, the financial fallout from Katrina continued. The New Orleans subsidiary of the Entergy Corporation, filed for bankruptcy protection yesterday. Entergy New Orleans said it would also borrow up to $200 million from its parent. 
 ''We took this action after careful review of the various options available to preserve Entergy New Orleans' business over the near and long term,'' the chief executive of Entergy New Orleans, Dan Packer, said in a statement. Entergy has estimated that the restoration costs for its New Orleans operations could top $325 million.
 Entergy, whose Entergy New Orleans unit has lost up to an estimated 130,000 customers because of the hurricane, puts the unit's storm-related costs at $325 million to $475 million. Entergy, which provides electricity to a large part of the Gulf Coast, said Hurricane Katrina had caused the bankruptcy filing by destroying operations and leaving customers unable to pay their bills, disrupting revenue.
 Despite Rita's weakening, most energy companies in the region were battening down. By yesterday, 16 refineries from Houston to Port Charles, La., accounting for some four million barrels of refining capacity a day, had shut down or were shutting down. 
 ''We continue to make plans and gather resources -- from housing to food to financial assistance -- to support our refineries and retail operations before, during and after the hurricane. Our recovery planning is in full gear,'' said a spokeswoman from Valero Energy, which shut its refineries in Houston, Texas City and Port Arthur, and reduced production at plants in Krotz Springs, Memphis and Lima. 
 The Energy Department also reported that several pipelines in the area, including the Seaway crude pipeline that runs from the Texas coast to Cushing, Okla., had been shut or had reduced capacity.
 A substantial part of the nation's chemical industry is also clustered in the area. And as Rita approached, the plants were preparing for a major hit. Dow Chemical had shut six plants in Texas by Thursday afternoon. BASF evacuated six plants in Texas, including its largest integrated chemical plant in North America, which is in Freeport and a naphtha cracker in Port Arthur.
 ''There's a lot more capacity in Rita's path than there was in Katrina's,'' warned Kevin Swift, chief economist of the American Chemistry Council, the chemical industry's main trade group.
 The energy shutdown is starting to pinch in some areas. In Houston, there were some reports of gas stations running out of gasoline. And the governor of Georgia said all public schools would be closed on Monday and Tuesday to save fuel.
 Though the main concern over Rita regards energy, businesses of all sorts -- images of Katrina's devastation still fresh in their minds -- are redoubling efforts to prepare.
 Wal-Mart and Home Depot have sent additional shipments of essential items -- water, batteries, dry ice, cleaning supplies, gas cans and generators -- as well as supplies that will be needed for the cleanup like tarpaulins, rope and duct tape. 
 Taking a lesson from the looting in New Orleans, Wal-Mart instructed managers to remove guns and other firearms from stores in the hurricane's path. 
 ''We emphasized to store managers step by step how to deal with those items,'' said Jason Jackson, the director of Wal-Mart's emergency operations center.
 The Hibernia Corporation, the bank based in New Orleans, which moved some of its check- and loan-processing operations to Houston after Katrina, loaded up about 600 employees Thursday morning on chartered buses to take them to a third processing site in Shreveport, La.
 ''We've always had the three processing centers, but now two of them -- New Orleans and Houston -- are down,'' a spokesman, Ian McNulty, said.
 The bank, which still has 42 bank branches closed in New Orleans because of Katrina, shut 72 branches in Texas and Southwest Louisiana ahead of Rita, Mr. McNulty said. But the bank's mainframes and servers, which hold customer-account information and connect the ATM networks, were moved to Dallas and Shreveport after Katrina.
 Sanders Morris Harris, the Houston-based investment bank, has backed up its computer servers to two locations in New York City and Garden City, N.Y. It has posted an alternative number on its Web site for people to call and if telephone service is still up in Houston, calls will be forwarded to New York.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Another Lost Weekend''More than 30 million barrels of oil and 140 billion cubic feet of natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico have been lost since Aug. 26, when platforms began to be shut in advance of Hurricane Katrina. Damage from that storm and now the evacuations for Hurricane Rita have kept production far below normal.Graph tracks crude oil production in The Gulf of Mexico (in millions of barrel) since Aug. 26th, the last day of full production.Graph tracks natural gas production in The Gulf of Mexico (in cubic feet) since Aug. 26th, the last day of full production.*Production figures not reported.(Source by Minerals Management Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); WEATHER (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Refineries; Gas (Fuel); Shutdowns (Institutional); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Energy and Power

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (86%); ENTERGY NEW ORLEANS INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (59%) New York Mercantile Exchange

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (86%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (82%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Gulf of Mexico; Louisiana; Mississippi ; Texas

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



550 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE COVERAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Coast Insurance Expected To Soar 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
The cost of insurance for homes and businesses is expected to rise sharply in the Gulf Coast states because of Hurricane Katrina, and even more so with Hurricane Rita, industry experts said yesterday. Policyholders far from the battered coastline are also expected to face higher premiums.
 Prices for home insurance in New Orleans, elsewhere in Louisiana and in Mississippi could easily jump an average of 15 percent to 30 percent, industry executives and analysts said. In other states vulnerable to hurricanes, they said, the increase might be as little as 3 percent to 5 percent, with smaller rises in areas far from the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coasts. 
Insurance for offices, factories and other businesses, which is less heavily regulated, is expected to rise even more than home insurance. 
 ''It's going to be quite pronounced in the affected areas,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. 
 Insurance companies themselves will have to pay significantly more for the coverage they buy from each other to spread their risk, coverage known as reinsurance, insurance executives said. That expense is expected to jump 10 percent to 20 percent, reversing a recent decline of more than 10 percent a year. 
 The increase will be passed on to homeowners and businesses, a major reason premiums are expected to rise not only in areas of the United States far from the Gulf Coast but around the world as well.
 ''Think of this as throwing a rock into a lake and the next thing you have little waves going out in all directions,'' said Kevin Lampo, an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis. 
 Prices usually jump after a big hurricane as losses reduce the insurers' pool of capital and customers seek to maintain or increase coverage -- a classic example of supply-and-demand economics. The insurers say they do not literally raise their prices to recover losses. But, in a process that has the same effect, they factor in the new losses as a potential cost in the future and raise prices to give them enough money to pay those claims if they occur. 
 ''We project out into the future what our loss costs are going to be and we do that with a new set of glasses,'' said Michael Trevino, a spokesman for Allstate, the nation's second-largest home and auto insurer behind State Farm. Even before Hurricane Rita, industry executives said the estimated losses from Katrina and two other weaker hurricanes had already made this year the most costly ever for natural disasters. 
 Many insurance executives expect the industry's cost from Hurricane Katrina alone to be about $35 billion. One storm damage tracking firm, Risk Management Solutions, even calculates a cost of $40 billion to $60 billion. As Hurricane Rita moved toward Texas late yesterday, Mr. Hartwig estimated that damage might be $4 billion to $8 billion, down from perhaps $30 billion had the storm churned directly over Galveston and Houston with their heavy concentration of petrochemical plants and other businesses.
 One computer-generated estimate by Eqecat, a storm tracking company, put potential losses at as much as $18 billion, assuming the storm went ashore near Port Arthur, Tex., and the Louisiana border as a strong Category 3 or weak Category 4 hurricane. 
 The previous industry record for natural disasters was a little more than $27 billion last year, when four powerful hurricanes hit Florida. The insurers paid about $35 billion in today's dollars for losses in the World Trade Center attacks.
 ''This is going to be the worst hurricane year in terms of costs, and we haven't even seen what Rita is going to do,'' said Karen M. Clark, the chief executive of AIR Worldwide, a Boston company that calculates hurricane damage.
 The insurers are hoping that the heavy losses will generate support in Washington for a program they have long sought that would provide them federal assistance in dealing with big natural disasters. They also hope the storms will increase support in Congress for renewal of the government program that promises to pay the majority of insurance losses in a terrorist attack, up to $100 billion. That terrorism program is scheduled to expire at the end of the year. 
 The storm damage has driven down stock prices for many insurance companies, and industry executives say some smaller companies may be forced into bankruptcy. Nearly a dozen small insurers collapsed after Hurricane Andrew, which hit in 1992 and cost the industry about $23 billion in today's dollars. Andrew was the most expensive single hurricane until Katrina.
 The insurers may face an additional estimated $15 billion in costs if they are forced to pay for extensive flood damage from the storm surge caused by Hurricane Katrina in Mississippi, Louisiana and Alabama. Their policies specifically rule out responsibility for any kind of flood damage, the insurers say. Even so, both Jim Hood, the attorney general of Mississippi, and Richard Scruggs, a plaintiffs' lawyer who was prominent in the $246 billion settlement with the tobacco industry a few years ago, say they are determined to make the insurers pay.
 The Mississippi attorney general is seeking a temporary restraining order preventing the insurers from enforcing the flood exclusion in their policies, and Mr. Scruggs said he was preparing to file individual lawsuits on behalf of at least several hundred homeowners. 
 ''This is a big issue for pricing,'' Ms. Clark said. ''If they are required to pay for flooding, when they reprice their policies, they're going to have to account for that peril, which they had not accounted for previously.''
 The insurers' rationale for price increases for hurricane coverage is being reinforced by meteorologists' predictions that the United States is in for possibly a long period of unusually heavy storm assaults.
 When it turns out that the insurers have overestimated future costs, they are required to reduce their prices to reflect the more favorable experience with claims. That has been happening for home insurance customers over the last few years, especially in Texas, where many large claims for mold damage pushed prices up. The insurers' costs fell sharply after they succeeded in getting Texas and other states to permit them to end coverage for mold.
 After the four hurricanes swept Florida last year, insurers began pushing up prices for home insurance there by as much as 30 percent, with some homeowners hit with increases of more than 50 percent. For some in the most vulnerable areas, the price increases along the Gulf Coast could run even higher than in Florida, experts said. 
 Even though insurance prices in Florida are among the highest in the country, they are being restrained by tough building codes, which reduce damage and risk for insurance companies, and a state fund that pays much of the losses in the worst hurricanes. None of the gulf states have these buffers. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Homeowners in Slidell, La., put out a sign last week, asking State Farm insurance adjusters to stop by. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WEATHER (89%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REINSURANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%) Insurance; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Rita (Storm)

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (58%); ALLSTATE CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%)

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

PERSON: Joseph B Treaster

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Gulf of Mexico; New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



551 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS, WEEKLY CLOSE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Weakening Hurricane Spurs a Rally After Rough Days

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street rallied to finish mostly higher yesterday, as Hurricane Rita lost strength and hopes increased that its effect on Gulf Coast oil refineries would not be as bad as initially feared. 
 With Rita headed for the Texas coastline, the heart of the nation's oil production, investors had braced for a repeat of the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina. By yesterday afternoon, however, the storm weakened two levels to a Category 3 hurricane, sending oil prices down more than $2 and easing the concern on Wall Street.
Trading volume remained light while traders kept an eye on the storm, projected to strike the Texas-Louisiana border early today. Despite a drop in energy prices, the Dow Jones industrial average posted a small loss yesterday. 
 ''I think whenever you have something that's an event that could create news over the weekend, people get a little more cautious about putting money on the table,'' said Susan Malley, chief investment officer for Malley Associates Capital Management. 
 The market also mulled a profit warning from Alcoa and discouraging earnings reports from the technology companies Oracle and Palm, an early glimpse of the coming third-quarter earnings season. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 2.46 points, to 10,419.59. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.67 point, to 1,215.29, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 6.06 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,116.84. 
 Yesterday's break-even session rounded off an uneasy week on Wall Street as the hurricane swelled to Category 5 status Wednesday and threatened harm to the remaining Gulf Coast oil operations that were left mostly untouched by Hurricane Katrina in late August. 
 Stocks were also hammered earlier in the week by concerns about an economic slowdown as oil and gas prices edged near record levels and the Federal Reserve's decision to raise interest rates an 11th consecutive time. 
 The Dow posted three straight days of hefty losses, giving up more than 250 points through Wednesday. 
 For the week, the three major stock indexes all lost about 2 percent. Crude oil also surged past $68 a barrel this week amid growing concerns about Rita's potential to further ravage Gulf Coast oil production. Yesterday, a barrel of light crude sank $2.31, to settle at $64.19 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, where gasoline futures also dropped 5.4 cents, to $2.086 a gallon. 
 The technology sector held its ground despite lackluster reports from Oracle and Palm late Thursday. Oracle said that it squeezed out a slight rise in first-quarter profit. But despite a bigger profit, analysts were disappointed by the company's database software sales, which rose just 2 percent last quarter. Shares of Oracle dropped $1.07, to $12.45. 
 Palm, the maker of the Treo smartphone, said higher costs and slumping sales of digital organizers resulted in a 7 percent decline in quarterly earnings. The company also pegged its second-quarter profit well below Wall Street estimates, citing strong overseas competition. Palm lost $6.28, or 18 percent, to $28.69. 
 Alcoa warned on Thursday that its third-quarter earnings would miss analysts' expectations, as soaring energy and raw material costs add to problems from a revenue shortfall caused by sliding aluminum prices. Alcoa said that its results would also be affected by Hurricane Rita, which forced it to close several plants in the storm's path. Alcoa slumped $1.48, to $24.42. 
 Goodyear Tire and Rubber said yesterday that it would close an undisclosed number of plants as part of a broad restructuring. The company, hoping to save as much as $1 billion over the next three years, did not say how many jobs would be lost by the move. Goodyear climbed 50 cents, to $15.50 a share. 
 Declining issues outpaced advancers for most of the session, but the market shifted and advancers ended up leading decliners by 17 to 16 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 17/32, to a price of 100 1/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.24 percent from 4.18 percent on Thursday.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); HURRICANES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); PROFIT WARNINGS (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SMARTPHONES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INTEREST RATES (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (83%); ALCOA INC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (83%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



552 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Debt Deal for Poorest Nations Moves Ahead

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
The United States moved closer on Friday to a final deal with other industrialized nations on wiping out about $18 billion in debt owed by the world's poorest nations.
 In a strong letter to the World Bank, finance ministers from the Group of 8 industrialized nations promised that their governments would reimburse the bank and the International Monetary Fund for all the loan repayments the two institutions would be giving up.
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said the letter resolved the biggest criticism of the debt-relief plan and predicted that the boards of both the fund and the World Bank would be able to approve it within a week. 
 President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain hammered out a basic agreement on debt relief in July, but other countries -- notably the Netherlands -- demanded stronger assurances that the major industrialized countries would pick up the full cost of the plan. 
 In a letter on Friday to Paul D. Wolfowitz, president of the World Bank, the G-8 finance ministers promised to cover ''dollar for dollar'' all the lost principal and interest payments -- about $1 billion a year. 
 They also promised that the payments to cover debt forgiveness would come on top of their regular contributions to the World Bank. To assure other countries that they were not reducing their normal contributions to cover the costs of debt relief, the finance ministers promised to report their payments separately.
 ''It's a very strong statement,'' said Max Lawson, political adviser to Oxfam International, which has been lobbying for debt relief. Though Mr. Lawson cautioned that a deal could still run into opposition, he said he was optimistic that it would be ratified.
 The debt relief package would initially benefit 18 of the world's most impoverished and highly indebted countries, most of them in Africa.
 Supporters of the plan hope that it will free those countries from crippling repayment burdens and allow them to start off with a fresh slate.
 The broader goal is to provide more aid through outright grants rather than loans to poor countries, and to direct those grants to countries that meet benchmarks for good governance and accountability.
 One of the biggest obstacles to a plan was disagreement between the United States and many European nations about how to shore up the World Bank and the fund when they stopped receiving payments on forgiven debt.
 The two international lending institutions depend on repayments of previous loans for a big part of their capital. 
 In a recent report to the board of the World Bank, the bank's staff said the debt relief plan hammered out in July could deplete billions of dollars if governments failed to make up for the lost money.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representatives from top industrialized nations gathered yesterday on the steps of the Treasury Department. (Photo by Andrew Councill/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEBTOR NATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); LOBBYING (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Group of Eight; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Monetary Fund

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); TONY BLAIR (54%) Edmund L Andrews; Paul D Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



553 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Losing That New Deal Religion

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Hurricane Katrina set off a 1930's nostalgia craze in Washington, with liberals pining for F.D.R. and conservatives promising their own New Deal. But after looking at polls and talking to people now coping with Hurricane Rita, I don't see this craze spreading beyond the Beltway.
 Along the Gulf Coast I heard politicians clamoring for new federal programs, but also citizens doubting they would do any good. The cynicism toward government reminded me of another decade, the 1970's, partly because that was the decade of Watergate, but mainly because that was when I did my one stint of public service. 
I spent a summer at a fishing pond in a Pittsburgh park, working on what today would be called a multiagency task force. Our job -- handing out bait and fishing poles -- could have been easily done by two or three workers, but we had a staff of 20. Besides myself and another college student working for the county, there were two employees on the state payroll and 16 young teenagers who were paid by the federal Neighborhood Youth Corps.
 That antipoverty program was supposed to inculcate work skills in the teenagers, and if any of them went on to become professional card players, then it succeeded. But otherwise they didn't learn anything except how to play hearts, which was the only way we knew to keep them busy. 
 When they became bored with hearts, we began sending them home early every day. This worked so well that we took turns going home early ourselves. As long as one of us stayed around to hand out fishing poles, I figured, what was the harm to taxpayers?
 Unfortunately, the other college student took it a step further on the days when he was left alone in charge. He began closing a couple of hours early, and one day our county supervisor found out. The next day the supervisor arrived in a huge government sedan and summoned his ashen-faced employees to the curb for discipline. 
 ''I can't tolerate this,'' he said, glaring at us for a long, terrifying pause. Then he jabbed his finger out the window and announced, ''If you ever close early again, you won't be paid for the hours.''
 That was the moment I lost faith in government, and I kept remembering it as I listened to people along the Gulf Coast. Some of them sounded like people who'd stopped believing, too -- and for much better reasons than mine. They had seen hurricane-force ineptitude.
 ''I've learned my lesson from Katrina,'' said Dartanian Sanders, a laborer from Abita Springs, La., who'd spent three days driving through two states seeking help for his family. ''The lesson is to save money and be self-reliant. Counting on the government in an emergency is like sending your kids to a candy store where the guy is selling drugs.''
 The scenes from New Orleans prompted calls in Washington for a new war on poverty and racism. But in a national poll after the hurricane, conducted by the Pew Research Center, Americans' attitudes on poverty and racism were largely unchanged compared with previous polls; if anything, they were slightly more likely than before to criticize the government for giving too much money to the poor. 
 The poll did find one notable change, when it asked whether the government is almost always wasteful and inefficient. The number of skeptics saying yes had been declining fairly steadily over the previous decade, falling to 47 percent last December. But after Katrina, the trend reversed and the skeptics became a majority, with 56 percent viewing government as mostly wasteful.
 For those dreaming of another New Deal, the most hopeful finding in the poll was that about 3 in 10 people trust the government to do the right thing most or nearly all of the time -- about the same percentage as before Katrina. But that's still a distinct minority. And as the Pew Center notes, it's in ''striking contrast'' to people's feelings after the Sept. 11 attacks, when 6 in 10 trusted the government.
 That trust four years ago spurred Congress, against the objections of small-government Republicans, to create a federal force of airport screeners. It was supposed to be a new breed of efficient government agency, but during the evacuation of Houston it behaved pretty much like the one I worked in. 
 About half of the screeners didn't show up for work at the Houston airports on Thursday, forcing the crowds fleeing Rita to wait in line for hours at the checkpoints. But don't expect them to be punished for dereliction of duty. In fact, their bosses said they were still considering paying them for the hours they didn't work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (89%); WEATHER (79%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); RELIGION (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Blacks; United States Economy; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: Pew Research Center

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (56%) John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



554 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Report Says Bush's Tax Cuts Will Cause Some to Pay More 

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Over the next 10 years, Americans will not receive nearly $750 billion in tax cuts sponsored by President Bush because the cuts will be offset by the alternative minimum tax, a new report by Congressional tax specialists shows.
 The report, prepared by the staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, said that from 2006 to 2015, Americans would pay as much as $1.1 trillion more under the alternative minimum tax, partly as a result of the Bush tax cuts.
The Bush tax cuts reduced the bill for millions of taxpayers to a level that will subject them to the alternative minimum tax instead of the standard tax rate. As a result, the report said, their tax savings would be reduced by a total of $739.2 billion over the 10 years. 
 Congress has passed a modest adjustment to the alternative minimum tax to allow more taxpayers to take advantage of the Bush tax cuts, but that expires at the year-end. 
 Even if it is extended, the report said, the alternative minimum tax would take away $628.5 million in tax savings, with $416.5 billion of that attributable to the Bush tax cuts over the 10 years.
 George K. Yin, the joint committee's chief of staff, wrote that the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 account for just under two-thirds of the increase in collections under the alternative tax. The report was prepared in response to a request from John Buckley, chief tax lawyer for Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee. 
 Families with children who own their homes will be hit hardest by the increased alternative tax. 
 The Treasury Department said the ''administration is as concerned as anyone about the growth of the A.M.T. and its effect on taxpayers'' and that it supported the temporary adjustment. 
 The alternative tax is a ''priority to be addressed by the President's Advisory Panel for Federal Tax Reform for the long term,'' said Taylor Griffin, a Treasury spokesman.
 Republican tax specialists said Mr. Yin's report was accurate, but created a misleading impression. Mark A. Prater, chief tax lawyer for Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee, said the root problem was not the tax cuts, but failure to index the alternative tax for inflation.
 Mr. Prater also cited testimony by several tax specialists about inflation, including Leonard E. Burman, co-director of the Tax Policy Center. But Mr. Burman, in an interview yesterday, said that the design of the Bush tax cuts, not inflation, was the major reason the alternative tax produced more revenue after 2001.
 The tax was initially enacted in 1969 to ensure that people making the equivalent of $1 million in today's dollars or more could not live tax-free. Because of changes in the law over the years, however, those making more than $1 million will pay little of the increased minimum tax, according to the Tax Policy Center. The original alternative minimum tax in 1969 limited the use of exotic tax deductions, like the oil depletion allowance.
 But since then, Congress has moved to allow those exotic deductions, denying individuals their personal exemptions, deductions for state and local taxes and interest on home equity loans not used for home improvements. Some families are forced to pay the alternative tax even if they take only the standard deduction. Some medical bills also cannot be deducted under the alternative tax, forcing the seriously sick or injured to pay higher income taxes. Since early 1999, more than 100 members of Congress have publicly attacked the provision that raises the tax bills of the severely sick -- so far without any effect.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX REFORM (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); LAWYERS (66%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



555 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: China Loosens Limits on Trading Against Other Currencies but Keeps Rein on Dollar

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
China made a technical but important adjustment Friday to its currency trading rules that underlined the country's reluctance to permit the yuan to rise significantly in value against the dollar.
 The announcement by China's central bank came hours before the finance minister, Jin Renqing, and the central bank's governor, Zhou Xiaochuan, were scheduled to meet in Washington with the finance ministers and central bank leaders of the Group of 7 industrialized countries.
After the close of currency trading in China, the People's Bank of China announced that it would permit the yuan to fluctuate more widely in value against currencies other than the dollar. But the central bank made no change to the tight trading range between the yuan and the dollar. 
 The United States Treasury is preparing to release next month its semiannual report on foreign currency manipulation, including China's handling of its currency, which is also known as the renminbi. There was no immediate American reaction to the Chinese announcement, made early Friday evening in Beijing, which was before dawn in Washington.
 Taken together with the extremely gradual appreciation in the Chinese currency's value against the dollar since a 2.1 percent revaluation on July 21, Friday's adjustment shows that China is determined to maintain a cautious currency policy, said Qu Hongbin, an economist here with HSBC.
 ''It tells you they are quite happy to see the renminbi move around against other currencies'' but not the dollar, he said.
 The dollar dropped briefly against the yen and other currencies when China made the announcement, and Treasury bond prices fell immediately, pushing yields up. But the dollar and the Treasury markets recovered as it became apparent that the Chinese announcement did not involve any move to widen the trading band against the dollar.
 On July 21, China raised the value of the yuan to 8.11 to the dollar from 8.277 to the dollar. At that time, it said that the yuan would not be permitted to rise or fall more than 0.3 percent in a day against the dollar. But China has allowed the renminbi to strengthen only 0.03 percent a week against the dollar since then, which works out to an annual rate of appreciation of just 1.6 percent, said James Malcolm, a currency strategist in the Singapore offices of Deutsche Bank.
 Before the July 21 revaluation, American officials had been calling for an appreciation of as much as 15 percent. Since the revaluation, though, they have been leery of citing specific targets.
 In the July announcement, China also added a rule that puzzled some currency experts. It said the yuan's value in terms of other major currencies, like the euro or yen, would not be permitted to vary more than 1.5 percent each day. China did not respond to a crucial question raised by currency traders around the world: What would happen if the global value of euros or yen changed against the dollar in a single day by more than 1.5 percent?
 Such a sharp jump nearly happened on Sept. 1, when the euro varied almost 1.5 percent against the dollar, Mr. Malcolm said. If the euro had fluctuated more sharply, China would have had a choice of letting the dollar move more or else shutting down trading in the euro for the rest of the day.
 ''Limiting it to 1.5 percent really tied their hands,'' said Paul Tang, the chief economist at the Bank of East Asia here.
 So on Friday, China made sure it would not be caught, and it widened the daily trading band for other major currencies to 3 percent from 1.5 percent. It is extremely rare for a major currency to move that sharply against the dollar in a day.
 ''This further improvement of the renminbi exchange rate management system would allow banks further freedom to set prices autonomously and greater ability to manage foreign currency risk effectively,'' the People's Bank of China said.
 Unlike the currencies of most large countries, which are traded all over the world, China's currency is traded almost exclusively within China, although so-called nondeliverable forward contracts are traded in Singapore. China is able to limit trading in its currency because it has fairly strict controls on the movement of yuan in and out of the country, and that makes it quite hard to settle contracts on the yuan outside of China.
 Even within China, the government restricts currency trading mostly to domestic financial institutions, although it is moving to let industrial companies participate as well. Currency experts say that the yuan's value against these currencies sometimes diverges from what currency rates on overseas markets would suggest.
 But it is extremely difficult for international hedge funds and individual investors to profit from these imbalances because of the difficulty of trading in China.
 The People's Bank of China nonetheless hinted on Friday that its announcement was guided in part by concern that someone might figure out a way to manipulate its complex system. It took an additional step on Friday that would make rapid currency trading more costly.
 In a statement on its Web site, the bank said, "As banks will be able to set values within a greater scope, costs for speculators may be increased, which would be beneficial to maintaining the stability of the renminbi exchange rate." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (95%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EURO (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%) Currency

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Jin Renqing (Min); Zhou Xiaochuan; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (79%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



556 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Pakistani Leader's Comments on Rape Stir Outrage

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Sept. 23 

 BODY:
President Pervez Musharraf's offhand remark about women and rape, made in an interview in New York last week, was apparently intended to polish his country's image. Instead, it has ignited a firestorm of outrage at home and abroad and undermined his efforts to publicize his new governing principle of ''enlightened moderation.'' 
 In an interview with The Washington Post, General Musharraf suggested that Pakistani women were making false or exaggerated claims of rape as a way of procuring financial support and visas from foreigners.
 ''You must understand the environment in Pakistan,'' he was quoted as saying. ''This has become a moneymaking concern. A lot of people say, 'If you want to go abroad and get a visa for Canada or citizenship and be a millionaire, get yourself raped.''' 
 In response to the ensuing outcry, he first said he was merely summarizing the sentiments of some of his compatriots, and not necessarily expressing his own opinion. Then he denied making the remark at all. The Washington Post followed with a statement standing by its article.
 General Musharraf's comments reflected the frustration in the government over two prominent rape cases, which have deflected attention from things like a booming economy or Pakistan's role in the fight against Islamic militants, which the government would prefer to emphasize. 
 The first concerned Mukhtar Mai, a woman from a small town in Punjab Province who said she was raped at the orders of a village jury in 2002. The men accused in the case have been released on bail and arrested several times, and her legal battle continues in the Supreme Court.
 Then there was the reported rape of Shazia Khalid, a physician attacked inside a government hospital quarters in Baluchistan Province early this year. The rapist has not been arrested, and Dr. Khalid says she received threats that forced her to leave Pakistan.
 The government has been at loggerheads with human rights groups ever since. Ms. Mukhtar, who has continued to press for her attackers to be punished, has become an international celebrity. Dr. Khalid has moved to Britain.
 ''The entire justice system has failed,'' said Farzana Bari, a human rights activist in Islamabad. ''Suddenly such cases have exposed the nature of the state.''
 General Musharraf sought to impose travel restrictions on Ms. Mukhtar earlier this year. ''She was told not to go,'' he said at the time. ''I don't want to project the bad image of Pakistan.'' The travel restrictions were lifted in June under pressure from Washington.
 A government-sponsored conference ''violence against women'' this month ended in controversy when the general criticized nongovernmental organizations for maligning Pakistan and stressed that Pakistan should not be singled out for its record on violence against women, saying it is a global problem.
 Advocates for rape victims note that the recalcitrance of law enforcement officials sometimes stems from their own involvement in rape. In one high-profile case, Sonia Naz, 23, alleged that a senior police official had raped her in Faisalabad; she had been was arrested four months earlier for entering the Parliament building without permission.
 In May, several police officers at an Islamabad police station were suspended on allegations of raping a 15-year-old girl named Saira.
 In the tug of war between the human rights activists and the government, General Musharraf's political opponents have jumped into the fray. A former prime minister, Benazir Bhutto, the leader of the Pakistan Peoples Party who lives in self-imposed exile in Dubai and London, expressed her ''profound shock'' over the way Ms. Naz's case has been handled. Last week, a leader of Ms. Bhutto's party presented a check worth about $1 million to Ms. Mukhtar, saying, ''Government should help, not malign rape victims.''
 General Musharraf would be paying a stiffer political price, political experts here say, if he were an elected official. He has worked hard to position himself as an enlightened leader despite coming to power in a coup, and the rape issue threatens to sabotage that effort. 
 ''What has enraged most Pakistani women, as well as public opinion, is governmental and judicial apathy and the attempt by people at the highest level to hush these cases,'' wrote S.M. Naseem, a columnist in Dawn, the country's most prestigious daily. ''When such attempts are exposed, the government's first reaction is to pretend to be puzzled, then to deny its involvement and claim it has been misquoted or misinterpreted, and finally to denounce these critics as unpatriotic and having agendas.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about outrage caused by a remark from President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan concerning women and rape misstated the amount of a check given by the opposition Pakistan People's Party to a woman who said she was raped on orders of a village jury. The sum was the equivalent of $100,000, not $1 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Women from the Pakistan Peoples Party marched in Islamabad during a protest against President Pervez Musharraf's comments linking women's accusations of rape to a desire to secure foreign money or visas. (Photo by Aamir Qureshi/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CRIMES AGAINST PERSONS (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); WOMEN (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); BAIL (64%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2005



557 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: Separate and Unequal

BYLINE: By Nathan Glazer. 
Nathan Glazer, a professor of education and sociology emeritus at Harvard University, is the author of several books, including ''We Are All Multiculturalists Now.''

 BODY:
THE SHAME OF THE NATION
 The Restoration of Apartheid Schooling 
 in America.
 By Jonathan Kozol.
 404 pp. Crown Publishers. $25.
Jonathan Kozol has been writing books rather similar to this one since ''Death at an Early Age'' in 1968. He is persistent, it is true, but so is the problem that has aroused his passions since he began teaching in a Boston school more than 40 years ago, when he was a young civil rights activist. That problem is the conditions under which we educate the children of the poor and minorities. In his account, they are trapped, almost uniformly, in old schools that are overcrowded, in poor repair, with scanty teaching materials and disgraceful toilets, and staffed by generally underqualified teachers. 
 In the five years up to the writing of ''The Shame of the Nation,'' Kozol visited approximately 60 schools, in 30 school districts, in 11 states. Some of these schools are in the South Bronx, and he became familiar with their principals, their teachers and many of their students. (He dedicates the book to a teacher in one such school.) 
 But along with his familiar theme of the inadequacy of the education we provide the children of the poor and minorities, he has a new focus in this book -- the return of a substantial degree of segregation in our urban schools. Black and Hispanic students, he writes, are concentrated in schools where they make up almost the entire student body. (I should say that I once opposed the use of the word ''segregation'' to cover both the state-imposed separation of the races in the South and the concentration of minority students in schools outside the South, which arises for a number of reasons, but that is a lost cause -- today we use ''segregation'' for both.) 
 The chief academic authority on this issue, whom Kozol interviews and quotes, is Gary Orfield of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, who has been as persistent in documenting the scale of segregation, and attacking its presumed educational effects, as Kozol has been in describing it. According to Orfield and his colleagues, writing in 2004, and quoted by Kozol, ''American public schools are now 12 years into the process of continuous resegregation. . . . During the 1990's, the proportion of black students in majority white schools has decreased . . . to a level lower than in any year since 1968.''
 Because Kozol's forte is the detailed description of the school, the classroom, the work of the teacher and its effect on the student, we do not get from him any large discussion of why this resegregation has occurred. It's true court-ordered desegregation programs have been abandoned in many cities, as judges have been persuaded either that they are having no useful effects in closing the educational gap between blacks and others, or that they have become futile, since the number of white students in many school districts, particularly in large cities, has declined to insignificance. A further problem with these plans is that the number of minority groups to be considered for redistribution has been rising with immigration, and some oppose the breakup of their communities for purposes of desegregation. (In San Francisco, school districts making assignments had to keep in mind nine specified groups.)
 Is this abandonment of court-ordered programs the chief or most significant cause of increasing resegregation? Or is it rather that residential segregation has increased (though it should be noted that the research generally shows small decreases over time)? Or that white resistance has grown? Or that black demands for integration have weakened? Or is it some other factor altogether? One cannot expect and will not get the answers to such questions from Kozol.
 Nor is there much analysis of whether greater integration would make any difference educationally. Quoting The New York Times, Kozol notes that parent groups are asking school officials in New York City to exclude from their local schools ''thousands of poor black and Hispanic students who travel long distances.'' The parents want more room for their own children so that they can attend schools in their own neighborhoods. Desegregation efforts, The Times notes, ''produced lackluster academic results,'' and the schools ''lost their distinct neighborhood character.'' One would think it would be important to consider whether the results were indeed lackluster, and whether retaining the neighborhood character of schools is a value. But for Kozol the overriding issue is integration. It is, after all, the promise of the 1954 Brown decision, and the difficulties -- one might say the impossibility, in many large cities -- of implementing desegregation do not moderate his insistence that we must place black children in schools with more whites. He does not go into great detail as to how this might now be done. Orfield and Kozol do point out that more is possible in small cities.
 Neither does Kozol spend much time on the question of whether desegregation would have the positive educational effects he hopes for. In fact, it would be difficult for him to do so because he is skeptical about the tests we depend on to determine just what the educational effects of various interventions are. These tests, of reading and mathematics, are required by school districts, states and now, because of the No Child Left Behind law, the federal government, and they take up an increasing part of the school day. Reading and mathematics are both the easiest and least controversial subjects to test, and also, for most educators, parents and public officials, the most important skills for children to attain. 
 Kozol argues -- as many educators do -- that the increasing emphasis on testing, with the resultant pressures on children, teachers and principals, and the drastic effects that failure in these tests can have for a school and its staff (there is a reason they are called ''high-stakes'' tests) have badly thinned out education in schools for the poor and minorities. He offers good evidence of this. By devoting more and more time to test preparation, schools are neglecting other subjects -- history and social science, geography, music and art -- that are not part of the ''high-stakes'' tests. Kozol wants education to be richer than simple competence in reading and mathematics, and he would consider it a narrowing of the aims of education to use these test results to argue for the educational benefits of integration. (By the same token, he would not be deterred from his support of integration if no positive effects could be shown.)
 His attack on the disparity in expenditure on education between central cities and well-to-do suburbs is similar. There has been research using the standard tests that questions whether greater expenditures on schools and students produce better educational results, but that research does not discourage Kozol. He expresses outrage at inequities in expenditure, pointing out that New York City in 2002-3 spent $11,627 on the education of each child, while Manhasset spent $22,311, Great Neck $19,705 and so on. There are comparable disparities in other metropolitan areas. (I have often been amused by these per-student expenditure figures, and have performed the thought experiment of calculating how much would be available at these levels of expenditure for the education of, say, a class of 20 children. It comes to some $220,000 for New York City, and one would think that would be more than enough to pay the teacher well, buy books and materials, maintainthe classroom and even pay the janitor. One wonders where the money goes. The question is even more provocative when one considers the $440,000 available for a class in Manhasset.)
 Expenditure per student in New York City has risen by two-thirds since 1991, when Kozol dealt with this issue in his book ''Savage Inequalities,'' an increase considerably more than inflation, with no obvious educational effects. One can argue that regardless of specific measurable educational effects, the poor deserve whatever benefits -- in class size, better-paid teachers, more supplies, larger playgrounds, cleaner restrooms -- that an increase to the Manhasset level would make possible. But the litigation in many states now attacking these disparities, litigation reviewed by Kozol, is based not on the argument that the children in the big cities deserve to have as much spent on them as is spent in well-to-do suburbs, but on a different proposition -- namely, that the expenditures of the big cities do not provide an ''adequate'' education, as prescribed in the state constitutions. ''Adequacy,'' one assumes, will in time be judged by the same kind of tests we are using today. 
 In New York State the litigation has now resulted in a judicial requirement that school expenditure in New York City be increased by something like 40 percent. Clearly such an increase would make life pleasanter for teachers and students. There is no strong evidence it would do much for the test results. One suspects the ''adequacy'' argument will eventually wind up in the same black hole that now accommodates arguments for desegregation.
 TO be sure, the case for both integration and equality of expenditure is powerful. But the chief obstacle to achieving these goals does not seem to be the indifference of whites and the nonpoor to the education of nonwhites and the poor, although this is what one would conclude from Kozol's account. Rather, other values, which are not simply shields for racism, stand in the way: the value of the neighborhood school; the value of local control of education and, above all, the value of freedom from state imposition when it affects matters so personal as the future of one's children. 
 States could probably see to it that local school districts received uniform sums for the education of each child (with perhaps a supplement for those from difficult circumstances), but how could politicians prevent well-to-do or knowledgeable parents from adding more on their own, or from leaving the state system entirely? It is factors like these -- which add up to nothing less than a commitment to individual freedom -- that make it so difficult to achieve the obviously desirable goals of integration and equalization.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Front and center, Linda Brown, the plaintiff in Brown v. Board, the 1954 Supreme Court case that found segregation illegal. (Photograph by Carl Iwasaki)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); LITERATURE (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Nathan Glazer; Jonathan Kozol

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



558 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Long Gone Daddy

BYLINE: By GARRISON KEILLOR. 
Garrison Keillor is the host and writer of ''A Prairie Home Companion'' and the author of 16 books. He is the editor, most recently, of an anthology titled ''Good Poems for Hard Times.''

 BODY:
Lovesick Blues
 The Life of Hank Williams. 
 By Paul Hemphill.
 207 pp.Viking. $23.95.
It was the greatest death in country music, greater than any plane crash, car crash or drug overdose, greater than Jimmie Rodgers dying of TB in a hotel room near Times Square. The hero died in a snowstorm early on New Year's Day, 1953, after a few years of intense stardom, as he lay sleeping in the back seat of a powder blue Cadillac chauffeured by an 18-year-old college kid named Charles Carr, somewhere between Bristol, Tenn., and Oak Hill, W.Va., on the way to a New Year's Day concert in Canton, Ohio. He was wearing a blue serge suit, cowboy boots, a white fedora and a navy blue overcoat. He'd gotten out of the car at a gas station in Bristol, stretched, and told Carr that he didn't want to go to the all-night diner across the road, he just wanted to sleep. Near Oak Hill, Carr reached back to pick up the blanket that had fallen off the hero and touched his cold, cold hand. The body was rigid when Carr arrived at the hospital. Two interns looked in the car and pronounced him dead. ''But isn't there something you can do to revive him?'' Carr said. ''It's too late,'' they said. ''The man's dead.'' 
 Hank Williams was 29 when he climbed into that Cadillac, the biggest thing in country music since Jimmie, and some 50 years later his pedal-steel player Don Helms is telling Paul Hemphill: ''Sometimes I get tired of talking about him. . . . Fans come up and ask me what Hank was really like and I've gotten to where I'll just say, 'Well, he was skinny, all right.' . . . People keep wanting to hear new stories about Hank, but there are no new stories. They'll make him out to be a junkie or a pillhead, but the only thing about Hank and pills was that he overused 'em. Everything he did was bad for his health, that's all. . . . He was my fishing buddy, my bowling buddy, my boss, my best friend. The hardest thing I ever did was stand on the stage at his funeral, looking right down at him in that coffin, and start playing for him. I miss him. He's all I've got.'' 
 It's not surprising that somebody is tired of the old stories -- the surprise is the thought of Hank Williams in bowling shoes, waiting for his ball to roll down the rail, looking down the alley at a baby split, kidding around with the other bowlers. He was a tragic hero of such monumental proportions and the old stories are so familiar -- the drinking, the marital troubles, the raucous debut at the Grand Ole Opry -- that it's a shock to realize that he had his simple good days too. He went on the wagon for long stretches. He was sober most of the time, according to Helms. He fished. He loved comic books. He could be pleasant to be with. His daughter Lycrecia thought he was a good daddy. His second wife said: ''We wrestled, had picnics. I gave him a childhood. We held hands, and I'd sit on his lap. I wore short shorts and T-shirts tied up in the front.'' 
 Paul Hemphill comes by his love of Hank honestly, having grown up in Birmingham in the 1940's, the son of a truck driver, and he tells the familiar story with economy and grace. Hiram Williams, later known as Hank, was born in ramshackle poverty in Alabama, 1923, the son of an overpowering mother and a wounded World War I vet, the boy himself born with a spinal deformation that troubled him all his life. He was shy and gawky and got a Sears Silvertone guitar when he was 8 and some early tutoring in the blues from an old black street singer named Rufus Payne, known as Tee-Tot. The boy wrote one of his first lyrics about his father, who had left home, a poem called ''I Wish I Had a Dad'' (''The dad I've got, you see, he comes but once a year / I ask him why he stayed away and he said lookie here, and tried to take my mind away by pulling at my ear''). He was an alcoholic by the time he reached drinking age. As a teenager, he embarked on the road life of a musician, playing theaters, gin joints, ''fightin'-'n'-dancin' clubs,'' radio stations (he was ''the Singing Kid'' on WSFA, with studios on the mezzanine of the Jefferson Davis Hotel in Montgomery, and ''the Ol' Syrup-Sopper'' on KWKH, Shreveport), writing clinkers like ''My Love for You (Has Turned to Hate),'' ''On the Banks of the Old Pontchartrain,'' ''Wealth Won't Save Your Soul,'' and along the way, he married Audrey, a horrific singer who wanted to be a star, and landed a producer, Fred Rose.
 Rose was a piano player and recovering alcoholic turned Christian Science believer, who, though he tried to excise references to whiskey from Hank's songs, recognized the man's raw genius. He got him his first record deal in 1946 (''With real spiritual qualities in his pipes, singing with the spirit of a camp meeting, Hank Williams makes his bow an auspicious one,'' Billboard said), and a better deal with MGM Records the next year and produced his first hit, ''Move It On Over,'' which got Hank the scratch to buy a house and a Packard and a fur coat for his wife. And then came ''Lovesick Blues.'' 
 Fred Rose thought the song was a disaster -- a 1922 Tin Pan Alley blues that Hank turned inside out, singing the chorus as the first verse -- but Hank recorded it in two takes, within 10 minutes, at a studio in Cincinnati, a few days before Christmas, 1948, and it was released early the next year, and stayed at No. 1 on the Billboard charts for four months. And it led to his debut at the Grand Ole Opry -- Saturday, June 11, 1949, a little after 9 p.m. on the Warren Paints segment, singing ''Lovesick Blues'' to a crowd that went wild for him and called him back for a series of encores -- six of them, by some accounts -- which was something that didn't happen often at the staid ole Opry. 
 Hank was a landmark, the first really sexy hillbilly. Chet Atkins, who saw him perform, said he was graceful like a snake, somebody you couldn't take your eyes off. He sang at dance halls but people stopped dancing to watch him, 6-foot-1, 150 pounds, guitar extended, insinuating himself around the microphone stand, a jagged edge to his voice, darkness in his eyes. He came along when country music was dominated by novelty acts and huck-and-shuck mediocrities and comics with blacked-out teeth and Ma-and-Pops-and-Cousin-Hezzie bands and Republican daddies like Roy Acuff and Tex Ritter, and in blew this lean drifter who sang, ''I don't know what I'll do-ooo-ooo / All I do is sit alone and sigh-ee-yi-ee-yi-yiii,'' his voice breaking into a hoarse falsetto, and ''I love to hear her when she calls me sweet da-a-a-a-a-dy'' and that cry, a sort of blue yodel like Jimmie Rodgers's, made women jump up and whoop and yell. He was a hot cat, he was what led to Elvis, and he wasn't some studio-designed star, his stardom was based on what he could do to people in person. He insisted on recording ''Lovesick Blues'' because it drove them wild in the roadhouses of the South. It made girls want to tear at his clothing. 
 Hank Williams drew big crowds. Seven thousand people filled the Municipal Auditorium in New Orleans for his wedding to Billie Jean Jones (another 7,000 had attended the matinee ''rehearsal'' the same day). A few months later, 4,000 were waiting to see his show in Canton the day he died. Twenty thousand people tried to get into the Montgomery Auditorium to see his funeral. 
 The good years were sweet -- he sang on big radio shows in New York, was offered a movie contract by MGM, got to hear his songs covered by pop stars -- and then he fell and fell hard. The end was brutal. He was in and out of sanitariums and got hooked on a sedative, chloral hydrate, and became pitiful in a public way: he got booed off a number of stages by his own fans. He was, Hemphill writes, ''skinny as a spider, suffering from chest pains, nearing impotence, incontinent to the point he was wetting his bed every night.'' In the midst of his miseries, he had a last grand hurrah at the Skyline Club in Austin, Tex., and sang every song he knew, some of them more than once, for three hours, no intermission. He stood on stage and wailed. People said it was the greatest thing they'd ever seen.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Hank Williams had come to us out of nowhere,'' Paul Hemphill writes, ''a specimen heretofore undiscovered, and by this summer of '49 nobody seemed to know exactly what to make of him.'' (Photographs courtesy Country Music Foundation Library
 Grand Ole Opry Archives)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DEATHS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COUNTRY MUSIC FOUNDATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (58%) TENNESSEE, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



559 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall on Worries of Rising Energy Costs

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Concerns about rising energy costs last week weighed on the stock market, which had its biggest five-day decline in months.
 The decision on Tuesday by Federal Reserve policy makers to raise short-term interest rates by a quarter-point disappointed some investors, who had hoped that the Fed would hold rates lower to bolster the economy. 
In a policy statement on Tuesday, however, the Fed emphasized the need to keep a rein on inflation and suggested that more rate increases were likely.
Several companies cited energy costs as a factor that is hurting their earnings. Alcoa, the aluminum producer, made such a statement on Friday. For the week, its shares fell 8.5 percent, among the worst performances in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 222.35 points, or 2.1 percent, to close at 10,419.59. The S.&P. 500 fell 22.62 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 1,215.29. The Nasdaq composite index lost 43.51 points, or 2 percent, to close at 2,116.84.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.24 percent, from 4.27 percent the previous week. Crude oil closed at $64.91 a barrel in New York. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.FedExNYSE: FDXThe shipping company said that its first-quarter profit had risen nearly 3 percent and that earnings for the full year would be higher than forecast, partly because of strong growth in exports from Asia.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $83.10WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.63%EST. '05 P/E: 15.18Avon ProductsNYSE: AVPThe direct seller of cosmetics and other products reduced its earnings forecast for the full year, citing weakness across all of its regions and sales shortfalls in China. The new target is well below analysts' expectations.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.35WEEK'S CHANGE: -15.17%EST. '05 P/E: 14.43Fleetwood EnterprisesNYSE: FLEThe recreational vehicle and manufactured housing maker said it received a $170 million order from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $12.75WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.57%EST. '05 P/E: 21.43BrunswickNYSE: BCThe boat manufacturer's stock tumbled after it warned of lower profits because of a drop in sales amid higher fuel prices and flagging consumer confidence partly caused by Hurricane Katrina.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.41WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.41%EST. '05 P/E: 11.80GlaxoSmithKlineNYSE: GSKThe drug maker stopped giving an experimental AIDS drug, Aplaviroc, to patients after two of them developed liver problems. Also, the company agreed to settle fraud accusations over the marketing of two antinausea drugs.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $50.67WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.05%EST. '05 P/E: 17.85PalmNNM: PALMThe maker of hand-held devices reported a 7 percent drop in quarterly earnings because of higher costs and poor sales of digital organizers. It also lowered its second-quarter outlook, citing strong overseas competition.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $28.69WEEK'S CHANGE: -20.88%EST. '05 P/E: 16.63Bed Bath & BeyondNNM: BBBYThe home products retailer raised its profit forecast for 2005 because of better-than-expected results in the second quarter, when its profits rose 18 percent and its sales gained 12 percent compared with a year earlier.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $40.10WEEK'S CHANGE: +0.12%EST. '05 P/E: 21.04AlcoaNYSE: AAThe aluminum producer reduced its quarterly earnings forecast to a range of 27 cents to 31 cents a share, well below expectations for a profit of 43 cents. The company cited higher energy and raw-material costs.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.42WEEK'S CHANGE: -8.47%EST. '05 P/E: 13.64(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BONDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (72%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (54%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



560 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: How to Sell a Mustang (or Anything Else)

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IT is a basic truth that much of the world of business is the territory of selling. Selling touches almost every corner of the world of economics, but it is rarely discussed in business magazines and the business sections of newspapers. Still, every scrap of paper you hold in your hand was sold. So were your morning fruits and cereals and meats, and so were your bathrobe and your slippers, not to mention your home and your car.
 For much of my life, I was selling. As a lawyer, I tried to sell my views to an administrative law judge at the Federal Trade Commission. At the White House, I was the rare success who sold a version of things that Richard M. Nixon did as president that did not get him impeached. (It was about ITT and San Diego. Anyone remember all of that nonsense?) As a writer who has exposed corporate fraud, I was selling my understanding of events around corporate accounting. And now, I mostly try -- unsuccessfully -- to sell my son on the idea of going to college and studying hard. 
But I am fascinated by salesmen and saleswomen. My first job was selling shoes, and I loved it. Although I did not care much for Arthur Miller, the man, I was awed by ''Death of a Salesman.'' I am totally impressed by great salesmen I see around me, and when I am sold by a good salesman, I step back and feel grateful for the learning experience.
 The best salesman I have ever encountered is Barron Thomas, who sells real estate and airplanes in Los Angeles, Scottsdale, Ariz., and all over Texas. He and I are close friends, and most of our talk turns to techniques of selling. His basic ideas, which rank high in the firmament of good ideas, are generally two: bond with your buyer, and listen to your buyer.
 In other words, align your interests with those of the buyer. Don't try to shove something down his throat. Don't try to hoodwink him. Just listen to what he needs and wants, see if you have the good or service he needs and wants and then arrange to make it easy to buy. Make sure that the buyer is a real buyer with a real need, a real timetable to buy and the real means to buy. Then satisfy that need. 
 It is also important to be a friend to your buyer. In fact, I observe that almost all success in life comes down to being a friend to someone: a friend to the voter, a friend to the judge, a friend to your spouse, a friend to the client, a friend to your parents. As Miller said so aptly, you have to not just be liked, but ''well liked.''
 I saw this in action a few days ago in a moment of sales genius so dramatic that I thought it had to be recorded. In a self-help group I attend in Los Angeles, I have a friend who has had a checkered life, and had never previously bought a car even though he is 29. He calls me his ''rabbi'' and asked me to go car shopping with him. ''I have to warn you,'' this young man said, ''that my credit is terrible because my life was so messed up before.''
 Off we went on a very recent Saturday morning to a tiny little dealership. We sat down with a brand-new saleswoman and her boss, the sales manager. ''I have to warn you,'' my friend told everyone at our little sales table, ''my life has been pretty messed up.''
 I added helpfully: ''And he wants to start straightening it out by buying a car from you and getting his credit fixed by being a steady payer.''
 The saleswoman fixed us with her brown eyes -- I think they were brown -- and said: ''That's all right. My life has been pretty screwed up, too. This is my first week selling Fords and we're going to straighten out our lives together.''
 Eureka! She had totally, instantly bonded with the buyer. After that, all it took was showing that he had a steady job and a pay stub, and he was soon test driving a Mustang and signing on the dotted line. This woman, along with her boss, had listened to the buyer, heard his needs and sold him what he needed and wanted. Some might have fought about the interest rate or the color of the car, but these were secondary matters to my friend. He had found a soul mate and she understood him and provided what he wanted: a car on terms that a man with badly impaired credit could afford to drive away.
 I went home and reviewed all of the men and women who had been successful sellers to me: of real estate, cars, jewelry and securities, which are by far our largest purchase year by year as we prepare for old age. All of these salesmen and saleswomen have been friends to me, have listened to what I wanted and needed, and aligned their interests with mine. Those who did not were soon gone. 
 I THOUGHT about the managements I have liked, especially my dear friends at Laaco Ltd. -- now trading above $1,100 a share, by the way, for those who recall my column about it a few months ago, when it was at $800. All of these managements have best aligned their interests with the stockholders' interests. I thought of Warren Buffett, the alignment man and friend par excellence. They all sell us on wanting to be their buyers or shareholders by listening, aligning and bonding, and being our friends. I realized that I had just witnessed a little masterpiece of the seller's art there at the Ford dealership.
 It was the Mona Lisa -- the summum bonum -- of selling, the perfect little jewel. For all of you out there who sell -- and that's all of us, one way or the other -- you might want to keep it in mind. To sell anyone anything, listen, bond with the buyer and be a friend. And you'll soon own the dealership.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); JUDGES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (75%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); WRITERS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (55%) Salesmen and Saleswomen

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (54%) Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



561 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: After Storms, Confidence May Wane

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
AN early snapshot of Hurricane Katrina's impact on the national psyche, and by inference the national wallet, will be revealed on Tuesday, when the Conference Board issues its monthly report on consumer confidence. As often occurs after a natural or manmade disaster, a sharp drop is expected.
 Economists polled by Bloomberg News predict a decline in the widely followed measure of public mood to 94.3 this month, from 105.6 in August. The report is based on data collected through last Tuesday, and therefore will not include the impact of Hurricane Rita. Katrina's effects are still being felt nationwide, particularly at the gas pump, and this would help to explain a fall in confidence. 
''One would expect the hurricane to have an impact since it really drove gas prices up and we broke the psychological $3 barrier,'' said Lynn Franco, director of the Consumer Research Center at the Conference Board, a private research organization in New York.
 Violent events often rattle consumer confidence. In the 1990's, Hurricane Andrew and the bombings at the World Trade Center and in Oklahoma City preceded sharp drops in the Conference Board figures. So did the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
 In each instance, the drop proved to be a blip. Confidence snapped back then resumed its previous course, up or down.
 Anthony Karydakis, an economist at J.P. Morgan, says he expects any impact on share prices to prove short-lived. While the economic damage may linger somewhat longer, he anticipates no lasting damage.
 ''The run-up in gasoline prices has created a very negative atmosphere in consumer psychology,'' Mr. Karydakis said. ''The question is how meaningful it is. The jury is still out.
 ''I would expect consumer spending to take a hit and for consumption to be a soft area in the fourth quarter,'' he said. But instead of ''a sustained downshifting,'' he foresees ''a two- to three-month affair,'' after which, he said, ''the solid pace of employment growth will bring consumers back to a healthy level of spending.''
 Mr. Karydakis added one important caveat: All bets are off if damage caused by Rita along the Gulf Coast turns out to be significant, raising ''the distinct risk of consumer confidence taking an even bigger hit in the near term.'' 

DATA WATCH -- The first two items on the week's agenda are government reports -- on August sales of existing homes, due Monday, and new homes, the day after.
 Sales of existing homes, at an annual rate, were expected to decline to 7.12 million, from 7.16 million in July, and new-home sales were expected to drop to 1.35 million, from 1.41 million, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. 
 Orders for durable goods, to be announced Wednesday, are predicted to have risen 0.8 percent in August after falling 4.9 percent in July. On Thursday, the report on personal income is expected to show a 0.4 percent increase for August, while the report on personal spending is expected show a decline of 0.3 percent, readings that would reflect a decline in confidence.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks consumer confidence (monthly index) from 2004 through estimated 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (88%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); TERRORISM (67%); BOMBINGS (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); FACTORY ORDERS (60%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: Conrad de Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



562 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: PLANNING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: New Advice to Retirees: Spend More at First, Cut Back Later

BYLINE: By ILANA POLYAK

 BODY:
HOW much can you take out of your retirement nest egg each year without running out of money?
 Not much, according to the standard, conservative advice of many financial planners. They often say that people who retire at the age of 65 can safely remove only about 4 percent of their portfolios each year, along with adjustments for inflation. On that basis, the initial withdrawal from a portfolio worth $1 million would be just $40,000.
But some experts have been making waves by suggesting that it may make more sense to withdraw bigger amounts in the early years of retirement. 
 Ty Bernicke, a financial planner in Eau Claire, Wis., for example, says retirees generally spend less as they age, so that it is reasonable for them to spend more when they are in retirement's early stages. Mr. Bernicke's conclusions, which relied on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Consumer Expenditure Survey for 2002, were published in June in The Journal of Financial Planning (www.fpanet.org/journal/articles/2005--Issues/jfp0605-art7.cfm). 
 Spending in practically every category, from housing to clothing to entertainment, declines with age, the data showed. The only category in which spending rises with age is health care, he said. 
 ''It's almost a tug of war between inflation pushing costs up and human nature pulling them back down,'' Mr. Bernicke said. 
 People over 75 spent 26 percent less, on average, than those in the 65-to-74 age group. And the greater the age difference, the greater the difference in spending: Those over 75 spent 46 percent less than those aged 55 to 64, and 51 percent less than those aged 45 to 54. ''Most retirement planning today assumes that a person retains the same lifestyle throughout their life,'' Mr. Bernicke said. ''But as age increases, spending decreases.''
 George and Kathy Magaw, both 59 and clients of Mr. Bernicke in Eau Claire, expect to spend less as the years advance, Mr. Magaw said. He has decided to take early retirement from his job as a training manager for a manufacturing company in late 2006, when he will be 61; Mrs. Magaw is not employed. He plans to spend time on his fishing boat and to go on waterfowl hunting trips in remote parts of Wisconsin. The couple also expect to visit grandchildren in Wisconsin and Connecticut.
 ''Am I going to end up spending a little bit more money up front? Yes,'' Mr. Magaw said, but the period of higher expenditures should be relatively brief. It ''won't be more than the first two or three years,'' he said.
 Then he expects to reduce spending gradually on things like travel and entertainment -- making up for increases in health care, Mr. Magaw said.
 The traditional advice that calls for an initial withdrawal of 4 percent is based on several assumptions. To compensate for inflation, the withdrawal rate would increase 3 percent every year. Someone with a $1 million nest egg could take out $40,000 the first year and $41,200 the next year, for example.
 And the nest egg would generally be invested at least 50 percent in stocks -- as a further hedge against inflation -- with the remainder in fixed-income investments and cash. 
 The approach is based on risk-assessment studies using all kinds of hypothetical examples of market returns. The withdrawal rates are intended to leave very little chance of running out of money.
 ''Our whole premise is that if this $40,000 is to have the same purchasing power for the rest of your life, we have to inflate it,'' said Christine Fahlund, senior financial planner with T. Rowe Price Associates, the asset management firm in Baltimore, which advocates this method. ''We're assuming that inflation is part of life.''
 T. Rowe Price's method assumes a 40-year retirement. Mr. Bernicke assumes one of 30 years.
 To Mr. Bernicke, a couple who spend $40,000 in their first year of retirement may not need to spend as much when they are in their 80's. People who are 75 and older spend an average of $674 a year on apparel and services, for example, while those who are 65 to 74 spend twice as much, based on the consumer survey he used. Those 75 and up spend an average of $896 a year for entertainment, compared with $1,371 for those 65 to 74.
 According to his calculations, a couple in the first year of retirement at age 55, with expenditures of $60,000, might be able to safely withdraw that much from a portfolio worth $1 million -- a 6 percent initial withdrawal rate. They would not run out of money so long as they reduced their spending later on according to the pattern shown in the survey, he said. 
 ''Of course it depends on the mix of stocks and bonds in someone's portfolio,'' Mr. Bernicke said. ''But a 6 percent withdrawal rate becomes very realistic.''
 He said that this rate could vary because of many factors, including a retiree's spending level and the size of the nest egg.
 Others advocate loosening the purse strings in retirement, but for other reasons. In the October 2004 issue of The Journal of Financial Planning, Jonathan Guyton, a planner at Cornerstone Wealth Advisors in Minneapolis, advocated an initial withdrawal rate as high as about 6 percent, drawing his conclusions from a study of market returns from 1973 to 2003. Mr. Guyton found that a person who retired in 1973, in the middle of a punishing bear market with very high inflation, could have supported a 6.2 percent initial withdrawal rate over 40 years with a portfolio that was 80 percent stocks. A portfolio with 65 percent in stocks could have borne a 5.8 percent rate, and one with 50 percent in stocks could have supported a 5.4 percent rate.
 ''The difference between a 4 percent or a 5 percent withdrawal rate might be the difference between someone taking their grandkids on a vacation or not,'' Mr. Guyton said. ''It's usually the last $10,000 that puts the quality in 'quality of life.'''
 In order to take out more than 4 percent that first year, Mr. Guyton said, investors need to follow a few rules. To generate income, they must always sell winning stocks before bonds or losing stocks. They cannot add more than 6 percent a year to their withdrawal even if inflation is higher than that. And no increases are permitted immediately after a year of investment losses.
 Mr. Guyton's research can be found at www.fpanet.org/journal/articles/2004--Issues/jfp1004-art6.cfm. 
 TO be sure, Mr. Bernicke's and Mr. Guyton's ideas have been met with skepticism by many planners who worry that medical costs may rise so fast that they will undo a well-constructed financial plan. 
 The cost of prescription drugs, for example, has been rising more than three times as fast as inflation, according to data from AARP, a lobbying organization for older Americans. Nursing home costs, meanwhile, have been rising 6 percent a year, according to surveys by Metropolitan Life, an insurance company. 
 To hedge against these expenses, Mr. Bernicke advises retirees to buy insurance policies, but many planners say people need to save more and withdraw less.
 ''I prefer a more conservative estimate of distribution,'' said Stephanie Hancock of Hancock Wealth Advisory in Los Angeles. ''I can't go back and say: 'Oops. You shouldn't have been taking out as much money the last few years,' if someone doesn't have enough.'' She is also skeptical about the assumption that people will cut back on expenses as they shift into retirement. ''You have all this time on your hands,'' she said. ''You could actually spend more.''
 And Mr. Bernicke, who is 30 years old, said he is saving furiously for his own retirement. He advises others to save as much as they can in their working years, and not to count now on spending a big part of their nest egg immediately after retirement. Such thinking isn't wise, he said, ''for younger people who are just starting to save.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: George Magaw with a grandchild, Gracey Elizabeth Gage. Mr. Magaw says his spending should decrease after the first years of his retirement. (Photo by Ingrid Young for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BIRDS (73%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); CONSUMER SPENDING (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Housing; Apparel; Entertainment and Amusements; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Life Styles

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%) Eau Claire; Price, T Rowe, Co

PERSON: Ilana Polyak; Ty Bernicke; Christine Fahlund

GEOGRAPHIC: EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



563 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3063 words

HEADLINE: Madison Avenue Wants You

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
THE camera tracks a mother's field of vision as she hovers over a checkbook and a calculator lying on her kitchen table. She looks up as her daughter, a young African-American woman, sits down to speak with her.
 ''Look Mom, if I decide I still want to be a doctor when I get out, I'll have had four years experience as a nurse or an X-ray tech or an O.T. specialist working with real patients,'' the daughter says, speaking directly into the camera and into her mother's eyes. ''That's why I want to enlist in the military; it'll be good for my career. What do you think? Mom?''
Block letters spelling out ''Your Turn'' rise across the daughter's face. But before the mother's response can be heard, the advertisement fades to white and displays the address of the Defense Department's military recruitment Web site. A no-nonsense voice-over then weighs in, offering advice to parents: ''Make it a two-way conversation. Get the facts at todaysmilitary.com.'' 
 With the brutal realities of the ground war in Iraq contributing to a well-publicized drop-off in recruitment, the federal government will roll out a sophisticated and expansive marketing campaign on Oct. 17 that will rely on advertisements like this one to convince parents -- mothers in particular -- that military service remains a wise choice for their children.
 ''This is advertising that is designed not to look or feel like advertising at all,'' said Edward Boches, chief creative officer at Mullen, the agency in Wenham, Mass., that created the recruitment ads. ''The one thing we felt we got parents to agree with was that if their children ask them questions about enlisting, they had an obligation to, one, engage, and then two, be informed.''
 The United States ended the draft and instituted an all-volunteer military in 1973, fulfilling President Richard M. Nixon's earlier campaign promise, made amid public protests against the Vietnam War. Ever since, the packaging and promotion of soldiering to those who might fight our wars has tapped all of the persuasive power that Madison Avenue can muster.
 From overcoming antipathy toward the military during that time to embracing a rebirth of military prestige spawned by the lightning-strike victories of the Persian Gulf war of 1991, advertising agencies and the armed services have worked hand in hand to strike a chord with recruits: ''Today's Army Wants to Join You.'' ''Join the People Who've Joined the Army.'' ''We're Looking for a Few Good Men.'' ''Aim High.'' ''It's Not Just a Job -- It's an Adventure.'' ''Be All That You Can Be.''
 The war in Iraq represents the latest watershed in the shaping of public perception of the military and military service. But as the government and ad agencies gear up their marketing machinery to stave off the recruitment shortfall and avoid possibly having to resurrect the draft, they are encountering a promotional hurdle: the perception that serving in the armed forces means more than merely coming in harm's way. Service, in the eyes of many potential recruits and their families, may mean death.
 The armed forces have brought billions of dollars to bear on recruitment since the 1970's. Last year, the federal government ranked 25th in Advertising Age's annual rankings of the country's major marketers, spending about $1.2 billion -- a large portion of which, analysts say, was related to the military. That put the government ahead of such big spenders as Microsoft, Wal-Mart and Gillette and in the same league as PepsiCo, Home Depot and Merck.
 Among the four major branches of the military, the Army is currently the government's advertising heavyweight -- and for good reason. Navy and Air Force recruits may not be as likely to face the potentially lethal uncertainties that ground fighting in Iraq entails. While the Marine Corps also puts its troops on the ground, military analysts say it recruits new enlistees in smaller numbers than the Army and faces fewer recruitment challenges because the corps prefers to field a young, agile force and therefore does not emphasize service as a career.
 The Army has had the most difficulty of any of the services in finding recruits, even though its ad spending has almost doubled since 2000, to about $290 million this year, according to Army data. The Army is reviewing new advertising proposals from agencies and expects to spend at least $1 billion on marketing under a five-year contract that it plans to award sometime this winter. The Chicago agency Leo Burnett currently manages the Army ad campaign. 
 The Army is also courting ''influencers'' like parents, trying to reach them through ads and by sponsoring rodeos, all-star high school football games and Nascar races. And the Army is Web-savvy. Besides offering recruitment information, its Web site, www.goarmy.com, gives visitors realistic digital war games that they can download to personal computers.
 ''This is based on research, qualitative and quantitative, that we apply to all of the work that we do,'' said Col. Thomas Nickerson, the Army's advertising director, of its marketing campaign. ''It truly is a business process using the best practices of corporate America to make an informed business decision.''
 Colonel Nickerson said that while the current ''Army of One'' message promotes personal success and does not emphasize the risks of war, the Army's Web site outlines dangers that recruits might face. Although the Web site of the Defense Department does not contain similar information, a department spokesman said in an e-mail message that ''our new 'Get the Facts' campaign dictates the need for some acknowledgment of current military issues and will be available'' on a revamped Web site to be unveiled as part of the marketing push on Oct. 17.
 ''Clearly, influencers want to know what the Army is going to do for their sons or daughters for life,'' Colonel Nickerson said. ''They also want to know what the global war on terrorism will mean for their sons or daughters.''
 As Colonel Nickerson, his military counterparts and their advisers on Madison Avenue respond to those needs in coming months, their success in pitching their message will hinge on how much traction it has in a time of war. 
 ''If we go into a draft this will be one of the biggest marketing failures ever, because it would mean the government, the military, the ad agencies and society had failed to provide a compelling rationale to serve,'' said Clarke L. Caywood, a public relations professor at Northwestern University and a Republican political consultant. ''It would be saying that their whole message had failed, abjectly.''
 STERN as a billy goat and pointing directly at the viewer from the famous ''I Want You'' poster, James Montgomery Flagg's Uncle Sam was more than just one of the most effective recruiting devices ever concocted. It was also an appeal to patriotism and duty so compelling that its popularity seeped into the broader culture -- and stayed there long after it first appeared as a magazine cover promoting World War I mobilization and celebrating Independence Day in July 1916. 
 Conceived at a time of uncertainty about America's role in the European war, ''I Want You'' offered icy, heroic resolve as an antidote to ambivalence and as an argument against pacifism. The poster attested to the marketing and propaganda power of the government and paved the way for the success of conscription under the Selective Service Act of 1917. It also helped create a climate that forestalled the type of draft riots that had accompanied the Civil War. 
 It was among a crop of posters and other advertisements that over the next decades also offered bravery and virtue -- and, yes, even the acquisition of job skills -- as reasons enough for strapping on combat boots. They were messages, say analysts and advertising gurus, that enjoyed relatively easy acceptance through the end of World War II in 1945 but began to encounter greater resistance during and after the Korean War.
 The social upheaval during the Vietnam War and the end of the draft pushed the military into the arms of advertising agencies and their copywriters and art directors, a number of whom were military veterans themselves. The Army turned to N.W. Ayer, then one of Madison Avenue's biggest agencies, to help with the transition from ''I Want You'' toward messages that tried to make the military attractive to younger recruits in peacetime.
 ''The messages during the wars and during the draft era were different because the draft took care of personnel needs,'' said Fred Morris, an advertising executive who has overseen military accounts and whose New York firm, Cossette Post, manages the Coast Guard's ad campaign. ''Back then, all the services needed to do was appeal to people's sense of obligation and patriotism.''
 The post-Vietnam ad campaigns included many marketing techniques that are still in use today: event sponsorships, outdoor billboards, direct mail and radio, television and print ads. Ayer coined the ''Be All That You Can Be'' slogan in 1981 and helped make the volunteer force more desirable by deploying aspirational pitches that emphasized educational enrichment and job training. 
 Joseph S. Nye Jr., an international relations professor at Harvard who served in the Clinton administration and has studied citizens' faith in government, said the military and the post office both enjoyed an increase in public trust during the late 1970's and the 1980's while almost all other government institutions were losing trust. He attributed the difference to great advertising. 
 Others agree. ''It is one of the great unsung advertising successes of all time,'' said Doug Laughlin, 63, a former Army officer who is now president of Laughlin Marinaccio & Owens, an agency in Arlington, Va., that handles the Army's National Guard account. ''By that, I don't mean that we put something over on America. What I mean is that literally hundreds of copywriters and ad executives accomplished something that in the early 70's just seemed impossible: that we could get rid of the draft and make an all-volunteer service attractive to Americans.''
 Mr. Laughlin, who has also managed Air Force ad accounts, said the Desert Storm campaign of 1991 ''really put the military back in its proper place of respect'' and helped propel the ad industry's efforts in the decade that followed. Then came 9/11 and Iraq, which ''have reminded everyone that service men and women could die and that service was dangerous,'' he said.
 ''I think everyone in military advertising began to get more serious again,'' he added. ''You're not painting this great picture of join up, spend two years, get your college paid for -- it's far more serious.'' 
 The public still considers the military one of the most trusted American institutions, according to analysts and military surveys, despite mounting opposition to the war in Iraq, murky prospects for its outcome and the scandal surrounding the torture of prisoners at Abu Ghraib.
 So the issue may not be trust, analysts say. Rather, potential recruits may be weighing the risks of serving versus the rewards. And for all the gravitas agencies are trying to instill in their military ads, the emotional strings they pluck continue to be self-improvement and professional advancement -- with the exception of some battle-ready Marine Corps ads that celebrate its recruits as members of a distinct warrior class. (''The Few. The Proud.'')
 ''The central message used to attract new recruits to the Marine Corps has not changed significantly since the inception of the all-volunteer force,'' Master Sgt. James Edwards, a spokesman for the Marines, said in an e-mail exchange. ''Each tells the story of the grueling challenge one goes through to transform into a U.S. marine.''
 The Marines plan to spend about $67 million on marketing this year, up from about $46 million five years ago. The Navy, which once hired the film director Spike Lee to shoot its ads and has a campaign, ''Accelerate Your Life,'' that emphasizes adventure and professional advancement, will spend about $100 million on marketing this year, up from $74 million in 2000. An Air Force campaign, ''We've Been Waiting for You,'' calls on potential recruits to hone existing skills and develop aeronautical and technological talents that position them for unique careers. The Air Force will spend $56.8 million on marketing this year, down from $61.6 million five years ago.
 Press officers for the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps all said that the war in Iraq has not caused them to alter significantly the messages at the heart of their marketing campaigns. Colonel Nickerson of the Army said that he was not sure whether his organization was planning to change its ''Army of One'' message over the next several months, but that ad campaigns ''are always evolving'' and ''have to respond to the needs and questions of prospects and influencers.''
 Influencers -- that is, parents -- have emerged as resistant gatekeepers, according to members of the armed forces and marketing analysts. A Navy spokesman said that a study conducted by the Campbell-Ewald advertising agency recently found that about 49 percent of mothers exposed to the Navy's message in mid-2003 were inclined to encourage military service to their children. By December of last year, the study showed that only 29 percent of mothers surveyed would do so.
 Leo Burnett recently produced a series of gauzy, sentimental television ads for the Army that attempt to woo parents with the message that military life makes their children better people. 
 Military spokesmen and marketing analysts said that among all of the groups to whom the armed services reach out, Hispanic parents are among the most powerful of influencers. In fact, ethnic and class differences have cut across military recruitment and marketing for years.
 Representative Charles B. Rangel, a New York Democrat who was decorated for his service in the Korean War, has pushed for reinstating the draft, arguing that volunteer service and the marketing that accompanies it unfairly ensnare society's most economically vulnerable members.
 ''There's no question in my mind that if we had a draft we would not be at war in Iraq, because affluent families would not want to put their kids at risk,'' Mr. Rangel said. ''They're targeting poor white, black and Hispanic high-schoolers in urban and rural areas with these ads.''
 The Army, Mr. Rangel said, has helped foster racial integration and provide opportunities for African-Americans. But, he added, parents in his district, which is largely black and Hispanic, are ''angry'' that their children are exposed to recruitment pitches. ''We've lost over 1,800 men and women; they're dead,'' he said. ''People aren't stupid about taking this risk.''
 David R. Segal, a sociologist at the University of Maryland and an expert on military recruiting, takes issue with some of Mr. Rangel's assertions. Professor Segal says recruiters do not court some of the poorest potential enlistees because of such factors as inadequate education, bad health or a criminal record. And historically, he said, the wealthiest Americans have found loopholes such as deferments or National Guard service to get around drafts.
 It is true, Professor Segal said, that the military now represents less of a broad economic cross-section of society than it did during World War II or the Korean War. Even so, he said, potential enlistees are turning away because they are increasingly aware that the financial incentives of serving are less appealing during wartime.
 MILITARY marketers say that advertising alone usually does not persuade people to enlist; its purpose, they say, is to intrigue parents and potential enlistees enough to visit a military Web site for more information or to call a local recruiter. As part of that effort, the Defense Department provides a $20 million annual budget to an internal group, Joint Advertising Market Research and Studies, or Jamrs, which conducts campaigns that involve ads such as those that the Mullen agency has prepared for mid-October. 
 The group also maintains a well-stocked database of young Americans who might become recruits. That has drawn fire from critics who assert that the electronic catalog violates privacy rights and was hidden from the public until recently. In an e-mail message, a Defense Department spokesman said that the database's existence has been publicly disclosed, that the information is kept secure and confidential, and that the department began collecting personal data in 1982 in response to a Congressional mandate that ''the Secretary of Defense obtain and compile directory information pertaining to students enrolled in secondary schools throughout the United States.''
 All of this data, Jamrs representatives said, is part of an integrated marketing strategy to support the recruitment efforts of each service branch.
 ''One of our main goals is to provide the services with actionable information that they can pass on to the influencers,'' said Matt Boehmer, Jamrs civilian program manager, who said research showed that parents had confidence in the military, but did not want their children to serve.
 Colonel Nickerson of the Army says that ads are just the start of his marketing strategy, and that the goarmy.com Web site has become a focus because it is an efficient, low-cost tool that houses all recruitment information. He also says that deploying Army ''ambassadors'' like the Nascar racing star Joe Nemechek and sponsoring national events like the Army All-American Bowl for high school football players offers the military a chance to get personal.
 ''The real importance of a national event is that it's the one opportunity you have to talk directly to prospects and influencers about the meaning of service,'' he said. ''An ad campaign can't do that in 30 seconds.''
 But the military still relies on those 30-second spots to open parents' doors. And in coming months, the Army's marketing and recruitment machine will be challenged to prove wrong the old joke that even the best ads cannot sell a troubled product. 
 ''I think people in the armed services are racking their brains to come up with new recruiting messages,'' Professor Segal said. ''But I don't know that they've come up with anything that's worked.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A military recruitment campaign, above center, that will start on Oct. 17 has had some formidable predecessors. (Photo by Mullen)(pg. 1)
As part of its marketing, the Army deploys stars like the Nascar driver Joe Nemechek, and sponsors an annual high school football game. (Photo by Paul Kizzle/Associated Press)
(Photo by Eric Gay/Associated Press)
 Some 2003 recruitment ads for the armed forces: Edward Boches, above, the chief creative officer at Mullen, an ad agency, says the new print and TV ads are intended to appeal to ''influencers'' -- especially parents. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); NURSES & NURSING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DESERT STORM (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); PARENTING (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); MILITARY RECRUITING (69%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); US PRESIDENTS (61%) United States Armament and Defense; Advertising and Marketing; Draft and Recruitment (Military); United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%) Timothy L O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (55%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



564 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MONEY TRAILS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Don't Blink. You'll Miss the 258th-Richest American.

BYLINE: By NINA MUNK. 
Nina Munk is a contributing editor for Vanity Fair.

 BODY:
THE latest Forbes 400 list of the richest people in America has just hit the newsstands. The idea for the Forbes 400 -- rather than, say, 300 or 500 -- was inspired by Mrs. Astor's 400, the definitive list of New York high society in the 1890's. It's rumored that Mrs. William Backhouse Astor Jr. limited her social list to 400 because only 400 people could fit into her ballroom, but that may not be true. In any case, they had to be the right 400 people. As her escort, Ward McAlister, explained to reporters in 1888: ''If you go outside that number, you strike people who are either not at ease in a ballroom or else make others not at ease.'' 
 The first edition of the Forbes 400, dated Sept. 13, 1982, included mainline families like the Rockefellers, the Mellons and the du Ponts. But they found themselves together with self-made men, some of whom were not terribly at ease in a ballroom: William R. Hewlett, who had started Hewlett-Packard in a one-car garage with his classmate David Packard and was then worth $1.3 billion; Robert C. Guccione, the founder of Penthouse magazine, then worth $400 million; Saul P. Steinberg, a corporate raider who had accumulated a $260 million fortune; An Wang, originally of Shanghai, who had started Wang Labs with $15,000 in 1951 and was worth around $400 million in 1982; Meyer Lansky, a mobster whose estimated net worth that year was $200 million; and Laurence A. Tisch, who built a fortune then valued at $600 million by assembling a huge conglomerate, the Loews Corporation. (Note: all net worth figures are in 2005 dollars.) All you needed to join the Forbes 400 list was money.
Right from the start, the Forbes 400 reflected an American ideal: we were a nation of smart, hardworking, resourceful, determined, innovative, daring self-starters. Above all, the Forbes 400 suggested mobility and unlimited opportunity. Every year, more of the old names fell off the list, only to be replaced by names you'd never heard of -- names of people who had been inspired to build something from nothing. Inherited wealth, which once dominated the Forbes 400, has over the years come to account for less than 40 percent of the list. The number of Ivy League graduates has dropped, too. And New York City is no longer the epicenter of American wealth.
 A few days ago, I read through the newest Forbes 400 list of the richest people in America, hoping to find many names I'd never heard of. They're not there. Through no fault of its own, the list no longer reflects a dynamic and elastic economy; instead, it reflects a growing concentration of wealth and economic power. Warren E. Buffett, Paul G. Allen, Kirk Kerkorian, John W. Kluge, Carl C. Icahn, Michael R. Bloomberg, Ronald O. Perelman, Leona Helmsley, Henry R. Kravis, the Waltons, the Pritzkers, the Newhouses, the Lauders -- the same old names, one after another.
 It's hard to say when the Forbes 400 list started to stagnate, but 1999 may have been a turning point. That was the year when Bill Gates's estimated net worth hit $100 billion. So quickly had his fortune grown that over the previous 12 months, according to Forbes's calculations, Mr. Gates had made himself another $1 billion every eight days. 
 Mr. Gates, who has held the No.1 position on the list continuously since 1994, is an extreme example of accumulated and self-generating wealth, but he's part of a trend. Twenty years ago, there were 14 American billionaires on the Forbes 400. Today, the list includes 374 (known) billionaires. In 1985, the combined wealth of the Forbes 400 was $238 billion, adjusted for inflation. Today, the 400 richest people in America are together worth $1.13 trillion. To put that number in perspective, $1.13 trillion is more than the gross domestic product of Canada. And it is more than the G.D.P. of Switzerland, Poland, Norway and Greece -- combined.
 The median household income of Americans has been stuck at around $44,000 for five years now. The poverty rate is up. Members of the Forbes 400, meanwhile, are richer than Croesus, and every hour they are getting richer. 
 Lawrence J. Ellison, founder of Oracle, whose net worth has swollen to $17 billion from $4.2 billion in the last 10 years, is profiled in the latest issue of Vanity Fair alongside his new $300 million, 454-foot yacht. (''It's really only the size of a very large house,'' he remarked off-handedly.) In Manhattan, where the disparity between rich and poor is now greater than in any other part of the country, Rupert Murdoch (net worth: $6.7 billion) has bought the penthouse at 834 Fifth Avenue for $44 million, all cash. The hedge fund manager Steven Cohen (net worth: $2.5 billion) recently paid $52 million for a drip painting by Jackson Pollock. 
 Making my way down the latest list, through the names of billionaires worth two or three times what they were just a few years ago, I felt a sudden nostalgia for the old Forbes 400 and the promise it held out. Then an unfamiliar name caught my eye: Brad M. Kelley. Who is Brad M. Kelley, America's 258th-richest person? 
 According to Forbes, Mr. Kelley is 48 and worth $1.3 billion. I Googled him. Nothing, or at least nothing substantial. I ran a LexisNexis search, only to discover that, until now, Mr. Kelley had for the most part been overlooked by the news media.
 I called him at home. (His number is listed.) Mr. Kelley was not at all glad to hear from me. At one point, frustrated by my questions, he blurted that he felt he was on some sort of reality show: ''I'm trying to, you know, my purpose in talking to you is not so much being courteous, which I try to be, it's damage control and it's really uncomfortable for me and I really wish you'd avoid as much personal matter as possible,'' he said.
 The truth is, if you buy up 1.25 million acres of ranching land across southwestern Texas, Florida, and parts of New Mexico, as Mr. Kelley has done recently, you can't escape attention forever. If you proceed to dedicate parcels of that land to wildlife conservation, as Mr. Kelley has also done, you're practically crying out to be noticed. Eventually someone like Mr. Kelley, who's spending millions of dollars conserving black rhinos, white rhinos, pygmy hippos, okapi, anoas, impalas, white-bearded wildebeests, Nile lechwe, Eastern bongos and Beisa oryx is going to be the subject of an article in The New York Times. 
 Mr. Kelley is not what we've come to expect of Forbes 400 billionaires. For one thing, he's never been on a yacht. He drives a white Ford pickup and is the only member of the Forbes 400 from Kentucky -- though he recently moved to Tennessee to be near his children's school. Mr. Kelley and his wife, Susan, have been married for nearly 20 years. He did not go to college. ''I guess I just don't find that as unusual or remarkable as apparently a lot of other people do,'' he told me. ''I mean, I've had a lot of M.B.A.'s that've worked for me over time, off and on, that, excuse my French, were useless as teats on a boar hog.'' 
 Born and raised in Franklin, Ky., a small town (population 8,000) about 40 miles north of Nashville, Mr. Kelley seemed most likely to take over his family's farm. According to the Franklin-Simpson High School yearbook of 1974, the year he graduated, Mr. Kelley was not an athlete. Nor was he especially handsome. He was secretary for the Future Farmers of America, winner of the Courier-Journal Louisville Times Future Farmers of America contest and a member of the Who's Who Among American High School Students. As well, he was named Corn Derby winner.
 Here's the business story: In 1991, when few wanted to be anywhere near the tobacco business, Mr. Kelley started a cigarette company from scratch. Called Commonwealth Brands, and established with a handful of employees in Bowling Green, Ky., it set out to undercut the big tobacco companies by producing discount ''branded generic'' cigarettes. In 2001, just 10 years after starting the company, Mr. Kelley sold Commonwealth to Houchens Industries for $1 billion in cash. By then, Commonwealth Brands was the fifth-largest cigarette maker in the country, with sales approaching $800 million. Its top brand, USA Gold, was, and still is, the nation's eighth-best-selling cigarette. 
 Asked for the secret to his success, Mr. Kelley replied: ''I like to think it was discipline and patience and avoiding pitfalls and working for the long term -- a whole lot of corny things that'll make me come off looking like an idiot in your article,'' he answered, before adding quickly: ''I'm sure as heck not Horatio Alger. There are a lot of people out there who are real smart and work real hard, and it doesn't happen for them. I just happened to be the one that it did. Sometimes you get dealt a good hand.''
 When we were done, I said to Mr. Kelley, ''You know, you may need an unlisted phone number after this.'' 
 There was a pause. 
 Then he said: ''You think so?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The cover of the first Forbes 400 list in 1982.
 The cover of this year's Forbes 400.Chart: ''The Superrich, Then and Now''A comparison of some attributes of people who made the Forbes 400 list this year and 1985, when Forbes began keeping detailed statistics of the list's members.1985General statisticsAverage net worth (in 2005 dollars): $600 millionAverage age: 63Number with self-made fortunes: 165Inherited at least some wealth: 235Women: 78Immigrants: 14Where they live(d)California: 49New York City: 81Texas: 44Florida: 23Illinois: 21EducationNo college degree: 125Master's of business administration: 25Law degree: 19Undergraduate degree from Harvard or Yale: 37Where their fortunes came fromFinance or investments: 45Technology: 12Media and entertainment: 69Real estate: 83Oil and gas: 64Manufacturing: 1032005General statisticsAverage net worth (in 2005 dollars): $2.81 billionAverage age: 65Number with self-made fortunes: 255Inherited at least some wealth: 145Women: 49Immigrants: 25Where they live(d)California: 96New York City: 43Texas: 34Florida: 22Illinois: 19EducationNo college degree: 129Master's of business administration: 62Law degree: 32Undergraduate degree from Harvard or Yale: 25Where their fortunes came fromFinance or investments: 95Technology: 43Media and entertainment: 42Real estate: 31Oil and gas: 27Manufacturing: 22(Source by Forbes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (50%) Millionaires and Billionaires; Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (82%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Forbes (Magazine)

TICKER: L (NYSE) (82%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (82%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (58%); PAUL ALLEN (50%); KIRK KERKORIAN (50%) Nina Munk

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



565 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; The Way We Live Now: 9-25-05; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: The Broken Contract

BYLINE: By Michael Ignatieff. 
Michael Ignatieff, a contributing writer, teaches human rights at the Kennedy School of Government.

 BODY:
A contract of citizenship defines the duties of care that public officials owe to the people of a democratic society. The Constitution defines some parts of this contract, and statutes define other parts, but much of it is a tacit understanding that citizens have about what to expect from their government. Its basic term is protection: helping citizens to protect their families and possessions from forces beyond their control. Let's not suppose this contract is uncontroversial. American politics is a furious argument about what should be in the contract and what shouldn't be. But there is enough agreement, most of the time, about what the contract contains for America to hold together as a political community. When disasters strike, they test whether the contract is respected in a citizen's hour of need. When the levees broke, the contract of American citizenship failed. 
The most striking feature of the catastrophe is not that the contract didn't hold. That is now too obvious to argue about. Many municipal, state and federal officials, elected and appointed, forgot the duty of care they owed to their fellow citizens. Some fled when they should have stayed at their posts. Some promised help they could not deliver. Some failed to rise to the terrible occasion. All of this is now well documented. What has not been noticed is that the people with the most articulate understanding of what the contract of American citizenship entails were the poor, abandoned, hungry people huddled in the stinking darkness of the New Orleans convention center.
 ''We are American,'' a woman at the convention center proclaimed on television. She spoke with scathing anger, but also with astonishment that she should be required to remind Americans of such a simple fact. She -- not the governor, not the mayor, not the president -- understood that the catastrophe was a test of the bonds of citizenship and that the government had failed the test. This failure was perhaps most evident when, on Sept. 1, a full three days after the hurricane struck Louisiana, Washington's top officials were asserting that they had only just learned that in the convention center were thousands of exhausted fellow citizens in the dark, at the ends of their tethers, awaiting an evacuation that had not come. 
 ''We are American'': that single sentence was a lesson in political obligation. Black or white, rich or poor, Americans are not supposed to be strangers to one another. Having been abandoned, the people in the convention center were reduced to reminding their fellow citizens, through the medium of television, that they were not refugees in a foreign country. Citizenship ties are not humanitarian, abstract or discretionary. They are not ties of charity. In America, a citizen has a claim of right on the resources of her government when she cannot -- simply cannot -- help herself. 
 It may be astonishing that American citizens should have had to remind their fellow Americans of this, but let us not pretend we do not know the reason. They were black, and for all that poor blacks have experienced and endured in this country, they had good reason to be surprised that they were treated not as citizens but as garbage.
 Let us not assume, either, that this moment of contempt is over. A week after the disaster, bodies were still floating in the fetid waters. I hope they will have been cleared by the time you read this. Duties of care, not to mention decency, cannot be less controversial than care of the dead. Yet often enough, the only people who took the care to cover corpses, to identify their names, to mark out a place of rest, were not law enforcement officials, who always seemed to have some pressing reason that it wasn't their job, but the storm victims themselves.
 Let us not be sentimental. The poor and dispossessed of New Orleans cannot afford to be sentimental. They know they live in an unjust and unfair society. They know their schools aren't much good, that their police protection is radically deficient, that their economic opportunities are few and that their neighborhoods have been starved of hope and help. 
 Knowing all this, the people of New Orleans still believed that, as Americans, they were entitled to levees that would hold, an evacuation plan that would actually evacuate them and a resettlement plan that would get them back on their feet. They were entitled to this because they are Americans and because these simple things, while costly, are well within the means of the richest society on earth.
 So it is not -- as some commentators claimed -- that the catastrophe laid bare the deep inequalities of American society. These inequalities may have been news to some, but they were not news to the displaced people in the convention center and elsewhere. What was bitter news to them was that their claims of citizenship mattered so little to the institutions charged with their protection. 
 There are inequalities that people endure, and there are inequalities that enrage. Neighborhoods in Los Angeles that kept quiet through poverty and discrimination erupted when Rodney King's attackers were acquitted. Why? Because police brutality on television, combined with the blatant lack of accountability exposed by the ensuing trial, betrayed the contract that binds all Americans to their allegiances: the promise of equal protection of the laws. When government failed so dismally in New Orleans, the betrayal was of the same order: it was no longer possible to believe in the contract that binds Americans together.
 Let us grant that the contract is contested ground. Liberals since Franklin D. Roosevelt have believed that being a citizen should give protection against the dangers of unemployment, old age and ill health, while conservatives have sought to curtail the contract, arguing that government programs weaken personal responsibility and hobble economic progress. Still, the idea of a contract is very basic. President Bush's Social Security proposals got nowhere because they appeared to tamper with one of its key terms: the idea that the government will guarantee every American a secure retirement income. 
 What makes the failure over Katrina so unexpected is that while liberals and conservatives agreed about nothing else, they were supposed to have agreed that government should protect Americans from natural disaster. Since the Mississippi flood of 1927, and the efforts of Herbert Hoover and the Army Corps of Engineers, public authority has been charged with this duty. This was the key element of the contract that seemed to have been ripped up like a roof shingle and cast into the infernal waters of New Orleans.
 This betrayal cannot be made better by charity and generosity. Americans have turned out to be -- not surprisingly -- very generous toward what has become the largest population of internally displaced people since the Civil War. But private benevolence cannot heal the wounds -- of humiliation and abandonment -- caused by government failure. Nor can exemplary performance by some agencies -- the Coast Guard, for example -- do that much to redeem the abject performance of others.
 The failures were not just failures of performance or anticipation. They were failures of political imagination. Officials and engineers in charge of the levees reasoned like actuaries, building to a standard designed to protect only most of the people most of the time. Had they reasoned with any degree of political imagination, they might have started from the premise that there are some harms that a government must protect its people from, however unlikely they may turn out to be, whatever the cost. That is how the British reasoned when they built the hugely expensive Thames barrier, how the Dutch reasoned when they built their flood-control system. In America, a levee defends a foundational moral intuition: all lives are worth protecting and, since this is America, worth protecting at the highest standard. This principle was betrayed by the Army Corps of Engineers, by the state and local officials who knew the levees needed repair and did nothing and by Congress, which allowed the president to cut appropriations for levee renewal.
 The same betrayal occurred in evacuation plans that assumed that citizens could evacuate by car. It turned out that 27 percent of city households did not own a car. Racial ignorance and contempt may explain some of this, but not all. A better explanation is that the people involved in municipal, state and federal government simply did not care enough about their own professional morality to find out the true facts. Public officials simply didn't bother to cross the social distances that divided them from the truth of the New Orleans population. These social distances between rich and poor, between black and white are stubborn and are likely to endure, but the most basic duty of public leadership is always to know how the other half lives -- and dies.
 A duty to truth was failed, but so was a duty to democracy. Why weren't ordinary New Orleans citizens consulted about the evacuation plan? The people in poor wards of the city would have picked its holes apart in a second. In the future, one simple test of an evacuation plan's adequacy should be: Have the people who are likely to be evacuated been fully consulted on its contents?
 The most terrible price of Katrina -- everyone can see this -- was not the destruction of lives and property, terrible though this was. The worst of it was the damage done to the ties that bind Americans together. It is very much too late for senior federal officials, from the president on down, to reknit these ties. It is just too late for the public-relations exercises that pass for leadership these days, the fine speeches from the Oval Office or other stage-managed venues. The real work of healing will be done by citizens much lower down the chain of command: the schoolteachers and superintendents of public school systems around the country who are taking in children and putting them through the healing routines of the school day; the morticians who do what they can to respect the dead; the National Guardsmen who protect the vacant city; the officials and business people who plan its rebirth. To an important degree, the future of confidence in American government will depend not on the leaders who failed their trust but on the foot-soldiers who did not and whom Americans can only hope will do the right thing now. Millions of acts of common decency and bureaucratic courage will be necessary before all Americans, and not just the storm victims, feel that they live, once again, in a political community and not in a savage and lawless swamp.

 If most victims of Hurricane Katrina had been white, would the government's response have been: Faster or the same. Source: The Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, September 2005. (Chart by 5w Infographic)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Self-Protection: Inside the Astrodome in Houston, Sept. 9.
 Hour of Need: Outside the Astrodome complex, Sept. 9. (Photographs by Kwaku Alston)Chart: ''STORM WARNING''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (76%); HURRICANES (74%); REFUGEES (72%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



566 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; EXPLORER: COURCHEVEL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2050 words

HEADLINE: Lots of Choices, Lots of Room on French Slopes 

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
THERE was something missing.
 Maybe it was the view, shrouded by a brief snow squall that would promise good snow cover in every direction. Maybe it was the other people in the gondola, because there weren't any. Maybe it was the lack of obtrusive boundary warnings or glaring trail indicators in the vast swath of snow below. Instead, there was just a wide open welcome.
Ascending the Saulire lift nearly 3,000 feet above the Courchevel ski resort, there comes a moment when you realize what it is that's missing from your trip to this centerpiece of the Trois-Vallees (three valleys) region of the French Alps. 
 It's the pressure to make the right choice.
 Which trail? Come now, there are 360 miles of trails in the three valleys.
 Where to find the secret stash of off-piste skiing and riding? There are more than 28,000 acres available, too immense to be anyone's secret.
 Which lift avoids the crowds? There are more than 180 lifts in a network serving terrain that is more than three times larger than the biggest North American resorts. Crowds, such as they are, scatter.
 Where to stay? With five distinct villages, there is no single best location. The Courchevel villages are separated by elevation and economics, providing hotels for every budget taste.
 Where to eat? You must be kidding. The nearest ski lodge cafeteria with chicken fingers is probably in Maine. Superb restaurants rise between the mountain peaks like epicurean mirages. Sixty more dining options grace the village streets.
 No, standing atop any of the peaks surrounding Courchevel -- Italy over one shoulder and Switzerland over the other -- the calm that envelops you is the understanding that there is no stress to choose wisely.
 The choices are everywhere. All may not be equal, but you will not be burdened long for any improvident decision. The next best choice is right around the corner.
 This has something to do with the sheer size of Courchevel and the vast Trois-Vallees area, in the Savoie region of southeastern France. The Trois-Vallees is home to one of the largest ski lift and trail networks in the world. On a routine ski day in Courchevel, you head over one mountain, perhaps crest another, and then barrel your way into the valley of yet another, different resort. It will likely be five to six hours before you head back to your home base.
 Of course, that's your choice. You can also step out of one of the dozens of hotels with access to the slopes and almost never lose sight of your room's balcony. The mountain and lift network right out your door will be roughly the size of an average Eastern ski area in the United States.
 Courchevel's variety applies not just to its skiing and riding. One of the things that separates Courchevel from other resorts is that it has built its villages at various elevations -- on striking, stepped plateaus. The villages are named for their elevation in meters, and each has characteristic differences. The pace of life seems to quicken with the altitude.
 Courchevel 1300, also known as Le Praz, is small, quaint and quiet, attracting many families. At Courchevel 1650, there are more storefronts, bars and a greater variety of quality hotels, with more middle-income vacationing couples and small families. At the top of the spectrum, in every way, is Courchevel 1850, a stylish, woodsy enclave of pricey shops, haute cuisine and chic gathering spots.
 Still, at any elevation -- a simple family hotel at Courchevel 1300 or an exquisite chalet of 10 suites at Courchevel 1850 -- you can hop on a gondola that serves all the same skiing or riding terrain. The villages are also linked by road and a bus system.
 Everyone is connected and independent at the same time, from budget-minded travelers to European celebrities, although keeping within your budget will be a challenge -- the charge for most goods and services is steep. This is especially true at Courchevel 1850, a mecca for the Paris jet set, who fly directly to an adjacent, small village airfield for private planes. They are drawn to the spas and to narrow streets that offer an old-world, yet privileged, shopping experience. In Courchevel 1850, places like Aspen are not considered competitive rivals.
 As Eric Tournier, one of Courchevel's prominent hotel and restaurant owners, said: ''Tell me another place in the world that can match our skiing terrain in dimension and variety, that has the quality of food in our restaurants and the depth of upscale private hotels? There is no such place.''
 Mr. Tournier did not even mention the discos that pulse until the wee hours.
 In fact, it was the late night crowd that made my visit to Courchevel particularly pleasant last winter. Not that I danced with them. While they slept the next morning, I was out on the ski slopes.
 Unlike most American winter vacationers, who tend to be early risers, the skiers and snowboarders in the French Alps tend to wander out to the slopes around 11. My wife, three children and I felt odd charging through our hotel lobby just after 8:30 a.m., skis in tow, especially since all our fellow guests were leisurely reading newspapers or finishing sumptuous breakfasts.
 But there was a payoff for our fervor -- endless choices. We could ski anywhere unimpeded.
 There is so much to choose from, however, that we knew we would need an instructor as a guide on the first day. My wife, Joyce, and our 6-year-old son, Jack, stayed close to our lodging in Courchevel 1650, the Hotel Portetta, where an inviting sun deck borders some of the gentler terrain.
 I took the more adventurous tour with my two teenage daughters and Philippe Mugnier, a lifelong Courchevel resident, ski teacher and town councilman. Mr. Mugnier wasted no time whisking us to the highest peak overlooking the Courchevel valley. It meant riding five lifts with rapid descents in between, but the snow on trails like Aiguille du Fruit and Vizelle was comfortable, mostly soft packed powder with a top dressing of new snow. More important was the freedom to roam on most trails, which were more like guideline paths in a broad snowfield rather than alleys confined by trees, ropes or cliffs.
 I don't know which was more exhilarating -- the freedom, the conditions or the fact that it seemed as if we were the only people awake and on skis -- but we raced from lift to lift. Once we reached the top, we pointed our skis over the crest away from Courchevel and dropped into some deep powder runs toward the village of Meribel, where the 1992 Winter Olympics women's alpine skiing events were held. It was more than 1,000 yards down to Meribel, and the snow depth meant a slower pace.
 We stopped for a quick snack of cured meats like ham and dry sausages and a local cheese, Beaufort. With delicious coffee to linger over, we might have eaten more, but Mr. Mugnier suggested that we stay less than sated. We were heading over another peak, and into the next valley.
 Farther west are the villages of Val Thorens and Les Menuires, excellent starting points for off-piste and backcountry skiing, although again, guides are recommended because of the danger of avalanches, and we did not venture too much beyond the traditional trail map. Eventually we worked our way back toward Courchevel, and, stopping near a helipad at the base of the Suisses trail, clicked out of our skis outside Le Cap Horn, a large chalet-style restaurant with a wooden sun deck larger than would be found on an ocean liner. Inside there was white linen on the tables, waiters in tuxedos and music accompaniment.
 In the Trois-Vallees, there are no midmountain cafeterias, the familiar midday stop for North American skiers. There are no places to stop for a quick bite to eat. Fast food would be considered a homemade crepe of your own design. In the French Alps, luncheon reservations, which the average American skier might find a bit of a nuisance, are a near necessity for on-mountain dining. But take a seat for lunch at one of several French mountain retreats like Le Cap Horn, and it will all seem worth it.
 The seafood buffet was varied, fresh and inventive, the steak tartar uniquely seasoned and the desserts so rich that afterward, serious skiing was out of the question.
 Back outside, we traversed the last few hundred yards slowly and happily. 
 There was still time to join Joyce and Jack, who had had their own full day of skiing, on the Hotel Portetta sun deck with a bottle of local Savoie wine.
 Subsequent days were similar although we made more time to amble through the villages. We learned to spot groups of instructors getting off duty, and to follow them into restaurants. 
 There was also time for sledding on a specially built 1.25-mile sled track that runs from Courchevel 1850 to the village at Courchevel 1550. This doesn't remind you of the Flexible Flyer dash down the hill in your local town park; it has switchback turns.
 Day by day, though, there was less zeal for speed. There was no getting away from the plentiful skiing prospects, but you can only pass so many people lounging in the hotel lobby by morning or sunning themselves in the afternoon without wondering what they know that you do not.
 Were we missing something?
 Under no particular pressure, we made a decision. Mornings were still for skiing -- somebody had to put all that good snow to use. Afternoons were for the sun deck.
 Or, we could do it the other way around. Why choose?

SLOPES SO EXPANSIVE, CROWDS DON'T MEAN CROWDING

Getting There
 The gateway airports for Courchevel are Geneva and Lyon. Each is about a two-hour ride by car or shuttle bus to the resort. Flights for travel from Kennedy Airport in early December were about $500 round trip into Geneva, and just over $500 round trip to Lyon.
 The train ride from Paris is about four hours, with the nearest station at Moutiers Salins Brides les Bains, about 15 miles from the resort. Taxi service is available at Moutiers for about $75 for four people, at $1.25 to the euro.

Where to Stay
 Lodging in Courchevel is expensive, but virtually all of it is within an easy walk of the slopes. The rates at many luxury hotels include breakfast and dinner. Some packages include lift tickets. 
 Hotel Portetta (33-4) 79.08.01.47, fax (33-4) 79.08.16.23; www.portetta.com, is in the Courchevel 1650 village. The hotel, which is next to the Ariondaz gondola lift, has 45 well-appointed rooms and a lovely sun deck feet from the slopes. Double rooms with either lunch or dinner range from $275 to $375. So comparatively speaking, it is moderately priced. 
 Le St.-Joseph, (33-4) 79.08.16.16, fax (33-4) 79.08.38.38; www.lesaintjoseph.com, in the village of Courchevel 1850, has 16 rooms, suites and apartments. Double rooms with breakfast only can range from $375 to $900.
 The Hotel Edelweiss (33-4) 79.08.26.58, fax (33-4) 79.08.26.89, on the Web at www.courchevel-edelweiss.com, in Courchevel 1650, has small, simple rooms a short walk from the slopes. Double rooms range from $110 to $120.

Where to Eat
 Le Petit Savoyard, in Courchevel 1650 (33-4) 79.08.27.44, is a local favorite. Tartiflettes, potatoes cooked with onions and local bacon, then baked with a cheese like Roquefort or Reblochon are popular. Le Petit Savoyard also serves wood-fired pizzas with its lunch entrees, which are reasonably priced at $18.75. It also has an inexpensive local wine list from $21.25.
 Le Cap Horn (33-4) 79.08.33.10 features a seafood buffet, traditional and local specialties and a splendid, high-end wine list. Lunch for two runs from $75 to $125. 
 At Le Chabichou (33-4) 79.08.00.55, www.chabichou-courchevel.com, in Courchevel 1850, the chef, Michel Rochedy, offers original and inventive dishes. Dinner can cost $100 to $250 a person, without wine.

What to Do
 A one-day ski lift pass at Courchevel costs $44 and a one-day pass to the Trois Vallees is $52.50. A six-day package to the Trois Vallees can bring the price to $44 a day. Hotels and travel agents offer additional discounts.
 Fine shopping opportunities abound in many specialty shops, boutiques and art galleries. There is an indoor activity center, The Forum, that features a rock climbing wall, bowling lanes, fitness club and ice skating rink.
 Sore from all this jumping, skiing and walking? There is a spa in nearly every hotel. BILL PENNINGTON


GRAPHIC: Photos: Skiing from Col de la Loze to Courchevel 1850. Courchevel 1850 just after sunset. The terrace at Panoramique, a restaurant at the Salire Pass. (Photographs by Christophe Margot for The New York Times)(pg. 14)
 Courchevel 1850, left, is the resort's high-end village, while Courchevel 1650, right, caters to middle-income visitors. (Photo by Christophe Margot for The New York Times)(pg. 17)Map of France highlighting Courchevel. (pg. 17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (91%); RESORTS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); RESTAURANTS (65%) Travel and Vacations; Skiing

PERSON: Bill Pennington

GEOGRAPHIC: ALPS (79%); RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) France; Courchevel (France)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



567 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Whodunit?

BYLINE: By KATE AURTHUR. 
Kate Aurthur writes about culture for The Times and other publications.

 BODY:
GIRL SLEUTH
 Nancy Drew and the Women 
 Who Created Her.
 By Melanie Rehak.
 Illustrated. 364 pp. Harcourt. $25.
Melanie Rehak's amiable and thorough new book begins and ends with appeals to the reader. Her first sentence is direct: ''Grab your magnifying glass, because this is a mystery story.'' Her last line is more of an entreaty. ''There are fighting days still ahead of us,'' she writes, ''and we're going to need her.'' The ''her'' is Nancy Drew, the fictional teenage detective whose authorship and enduring popularity are the subjects of ''Girl Sleuth.'' The ''us'' in the sentence is women. 
 As a literary biography, ''Girl Sleuth'' is necessarily tangled, since the Nancy Drew mysteries, now 75 years old, had numerous parents. But Rehak does a terrific job of bringing to life the writers and editors who constituted Carolyn Keene, the pseudonymous author of the series. 
 A critic, poet and unabashed fan of the series, Rehak also writes clearly about how the character of Nancy Drew has evolved since 1930. She delivers informed commentary about Nancy's original construction and about how different writers resulted in different Nancys. What's more, she details how alterations made to the already published books over the years reflect things as small as a change in the driving age (Nancy went from 16 to 18) and as large as a growing awareness of racial prejudice in the 1950's (the problem of racist characterizations in the books was solved by rewriting them to simply make everyone white). 
 Rehak is persuasive when she observes that Nancy Drew will continue to ''remind us of the rewards of perseverance and the value of confidence.'' But ''Girl Sleuth'' is least successful in its attempts to be a social history of feminism. Throughout, Rehak tries to draw parallels between the lives of Nancy Drew's two female creators and issues like women's suffrage and the emergence of birth control. The pages of historical summary are strained and stretched, and are not quite made to fit. 
 Fortunately, most of ''Girl Sleuth'' is biography. In Rehak's account, Edward Stratemeyer, a children's book author, ''dreamed up'' Nancy; Mildred Wirt Benson, the first writer of the series, gave 16-year-old Nancy her independent personality and unyielding temperament; Harriet Adams, Stratemeyer's daughter, oversaw his business after his death, and later wrote the books herself.
 Rehak begins with Stratemeyer, who was born in 1862 and grew up in Elizabeth, N.J. After becoming a successful writer of juvenile fiction, he created the Stratemeyer Syndicate in 1905. Thus he was able to manage the popular series he had created -- ''The Bobbsey Twins'' among them -- without having to write the books himself. He found ghostwriters, for whom he wrote extensive outlines. Then he edited each book and handed it off to the publisher of the series. 
 One of those ghostwriters was Mildred Augustine -- she was eventually, after two marriages, called Mildred Wirt Benson -- to whom Stratemeyer originally assigned the Nancy Drew books. He invented the girl detective after his Hardy Boys series became a hit in 1927. In a 1929 letter to Grosset & Dunlap, the publisher he hoped would publish his new series, he described Benson, who had been writing for him for four years, as ''a young western woman (newspaper woman).''
 The description was apt. In 1929, Benson was 24, had lived in Iowa her whole life and was the first woman to receive a master's degree in journalism from the University of Iowa. She was paid $125 for each book, and worked from Stratemeyer's outlines. Rehak writes that their endeavor ''produced a fantasy girl with a few touches of the real,'' and that Benson added ''some of Nancy's bolder moves and snappier dialogue to Stratemeyer's outline.'' 
 While Nancy Drew existed outside of the Great Depression, which coincided with the publication of the series, and outside of any real threat of danger or death, her architects did not. Stratemeyer died of pneumonia 12 days after the first three books were published as a set -- they were an immediate success -- leaving his two daughters, Harriet and Edna, with a business they neither knew how to run nor could sell in the depressed economy. With little choice, they took over the Stratemeyer Syndicate. The two sisters shared the editing and writer-wrangling until 1942, when Edna moved to Florida. Harriet then ran the syndicate until her death in 1982.
 Since Benson and the syndicate conducted nearly all of their dealings through the mail, Rehak is able to chronicle their professional and personal relationship. By the early 1950's, Harriet Adams had taken more control over the books, and she stopped using Benson as a writer.
 IN different media accounts sparked by a revival of interest in the series among feminists in the 60's and 70's, who pointed to Nancy as a childhood role model, both women have been given exclusive credit for the books -- usually at the expense of the other. Rehak appears to be agnostic about whether Benson or Adams contributed more to the persona of Nancy Drew. But as the book's subtitle indicates, she strangely doesn't give Edward Stratemeyer much recognition for what was, after all, his idea.
 As a mystery story about provenance, there is no one answer in ''Girl Sleuth.'' But in the book's introduction, Rehak succinctly describes her experience of rereading the 56 original Nancy Drew mysteries: ''The stories themselves are secondary. What we remember is Nancy.'' Beyond who wrote what, that's the best explanation there is for this young woman's winding progression from character to icon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (88%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (79%); LITERATURE (78%); LITERARY CRITICISM (73%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); DRIVING AGE (70%); HISTORY (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



568 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: September 25, 2005

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	2	1	POLAR SHIFT, by Clive Cussler with Paul Kemprecos. (Putnam, $26.95.) Kurt Austin must contend with the leader of an antiglobalization group who possesses technology that has the potential to destroy all of humanity.		 	 	 	2	4	130	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	3	2	13	THE HISTORIAN, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A young woman's quest to learn the truth about her father's life and her mother's death involves research into Vlad the Impaler and Dracula. 		 	 	 	4	5	3	POINT BLANK, by Catherine Coulter. (Putnam, $25.95.) Dillon Savich and Lacey Sherlock -- F.B.I. agents as well as husband and wife -- pursue a violent couple.		 	 	 	5		1	HIGH DRUID OF SHANNARA: STRAKEN, by Terry Brooks. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $26.95.) Accompanied by a dwarf and an elven princess, Pen Ohmsford must save his aunt from exile; the final volume of a fantasy trilogy.		 	 	 	6		1	LIPSTICK JUNGLE, by Candace Bushnell. (Hyperion, $24.95.) Three women struggle to balance their high-powered jobs and their messy home lives.		 	 	 	7	6	4	CHILL FACTOR, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A successful magazine editor is trapped in her remote cabin with a man believed to be a serial killer.		 	 	 	8	10	2	THE WIDOW OF THE SOUTH, by Robert Hicks. (Warner, $24.95.) After the Battle of Franklin in 1864, a Tennessee woman turns over her plantation to Confederate troops for use as a hospital -- and also as a cemetery.		 	 	 	9	3	2	SLOW BURN, by Julie Garwood. (Ballantine, $25.95.) Terrible mishaps befall a successful businesswoman in Charleston, S.C.		 	 	 	10	8	3	WITHOUT MERCY, by Jack Higgins. (Putnam, $25.95.) An American intelligence agent and his British counterpart swear vengeance against an international terror ring that has killed one of their number.		 	 	 	11*	7	9	LIFEGUARD, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $26.95.) Things go awry when a lifeguard at a Florida resort agrees to take part in a heist.		 	 	 	12	11	3	VANISH, by Tess Gerritsen. (Ballantine, $24.95.) A hospital patient takes hostages, among them a detective who is about to give birth, to make a political point.		 	 	 	13		2	REFLECTIONS OF A PEACEMAKER, by Mattie J. T. Stepanek. (Andrews McMeel, $16.95.) The final volume of poems by a boy who died of muscular dystrophy in 2004.		 	 	 	14	15	23	THE MERMAID CHAIR, by Sue Monk Kidd. (Viking, $24.95.) On Egret Island, off the coast of South Carolina, a married woman is strongly attracted to a monk.		 	 	 	15	9	5	SWEETWATER CREEK, by Anne Rivers Siddons. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A troubled debutante's arrival at a Lowcountry plantation disrupts the world of the owner's motherless 12-year-old daughter. 		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	23	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 	2	2	16	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 		 	 	 	3	3	22	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	4	4	35	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	5	5	10	100 PEOPLE WHO ARE SCREWING UP AMERICA, by Bernard Goldberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The author of ''Bias'' takes aim at ''Hollywood blowhards,'' ''America bashers,'' rappers and others.		 	 	 	6	7	7	NEW RULES, by Bill Maher. (Rodale, $24.95.) The comedian and host of ''Real Time With Bill Maher'' takes on everyone from President Bush to Bob Dylan.		 	 	 	7	6	6	THE FAIRTAX BOOK, by Neal Boortz and John Linder. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A radio talk show host and a United States congressman call for the abolishment of the federal income tax and the I.R.S.		 	 	 	8		1	BAIT AND SWITCH, by Barbara Ehrenreich. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.) The author of ''Nickel and Dimed'' explores the world of white-collar job hunting.		 	 	 	9	10	26	ON BULL, by Harry G. Frankfurt. (Princeton University, $9.95.) A philosopher attempts a theoretical understanding of a ''vast and amorphous'' phenomenon.		 	 	 	10		1	THE GAME, by Neil Strauss. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $29.95.) A writer spends two years in the society of pickup artists.		 	 	 	11	8	11	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all memoir by a dancer and actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	12	9	5	FROM PIECES TO WEIGHT, by 50 Cent. (MTV Books/ Pocket Books, $23.) The rapper's reflections on his youthful experience as a drug dealer and its continuing effect on his life.		 	 	 	13		1	THE TENDER BAR, by J. R. Moehringer. (Hyperion, $23.95.) A coming-of-age memoir of a fatherless boy for whom the regulars at a Long Island saloon become a substitute family.		 	 	 	14	12	3	1491, by Charles C. Mann. (Knopf, $30.) New archaeological research about American Indians before Columbus.		 	 	 	15		49	AMERICA (The BOOK), by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin, David Javerbaum et al. (Warner, $24.95.) ''The Daily Show'' offers an illustrated parody of a civics textbook.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Sept. 10, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest

MADE IN DETROIT: A South of 8-Mile Memoir, by Paul Clemens. (Doubleday, $23.95.) Clemens (born in 1973) recalls growing up working-class white in a black city losing both people and jobs.
 MOONDUST: In Search of the Men Who Fell to Earth, by Andrew Smith. (Fourth Estate/HarperCollins, $24.95.) Smith hunts downs the nine surviving moonwalkers to see how they cope. 
 ON BEAUTY, by Zadie Smith. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) The author of ''White Teeth'' pounces on a place like Harvard in a cultural-politics comedy. 
 WICKETT'S REMEDY, by Myla Goldberg. (Doubleday, $24.95.) An ambitious, multisubject novel (quackery, research ethics, coming-of-age) set in Boston during the 1918 flu epidemic.
 INFIDELITIES: Stories of War and Lust, by Josip Novakovich. (Harper Perennial, paper, $13.95.) Deadpan stories, mostly concerning nice enough people paralyzed by the Balkan wars.
 THE EVERY BOY, by Dana Adam Shapiro. (Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) A 15-year-old boy, mysteriously drowned, leaves thousands of pages of notes about his own self-discovery.
 LUNAR FOLLIES, by Gilbert Sorrentino. (Coffee House, paper, $14.) Mock art reviews that dance on the conventions of the avant-garde.
 THE MAD COOK OF PYMATUNING, by Christopher Lehmann-Haupt. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) A thriller set in a boys' camp where things go scary, ''Lord of the Flies'' fashion.
 THE HOLDING, by Merilyn Simonds. (Norton, $23.95.) The 150-year-old diary of a settler in Canada seems to unhinge things for the woman who now owns the settler's spooky property.
 CLASS MATTERS, by correspondents of The New York Times. (Times Books/Holt, paper, $14.) This product of a newspaper series finds that class still matters in America and that social mobility downward is freely available.
 FEMALE CHAUVINIST PIGS: Women and the Rise of Raunch Culture, by Ariel Levy. (Free Press, $25.) A polemic against women's willing embrace of male-made sexual caricatures. 
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: ytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WOMEN (77%); MURDER (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); HOMICIDE (71%); HISTORY (70%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); HOSTAGE TAKING (60%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (60%); GENETIC DISEASES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (79%); JAMES PATTERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



569 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Style: The Way We Drive Now : Motoring Toward A Post-Gasoline Age; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 3686 words

HEADLINE: The High-Performance Hybrids 

BYLINE: By Clive Thompson. 
Clive Thompson is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
''Hold on to your hat!'' Jim Burns shouted as he slammed the accelerator to the floor. With a high-pitched whine, the electric motor behind my seat burst into action, and ''the Enigma'' -- an experimental red sports car in which I was riding shotgun -- bolted forward, pressing me back into my leather seat. In about three seconds we were whipping through the San Diego State University campus at 50 miles an hour.
''We built her really low, so she totally hugs the ground,'' Burns said as we coasted to a stop at a large intersection near Highway 8. ''Watch this.'' When the light turned green, he floored it again while yanking the steering wheel to the left so that in the middle of the intersection we performed two 360-degree doughnuts, complete with white smoke pouring off the shrieking back wheels. The nearby drivers stared. Giggling, Burns, a mechanical-engineering professor, straightened the wheel and roared out of the intersection; a stolen glance backward revealed that we had left a thick trail of burned rubber on the asphalt. We finally coasted to a halt near his campus laboratory, where a team of students was waiting with a video camera.
 ''Dude, that was awesome!'' one of them blurted. 
 I had to agree: it was a heck of a ride. Yet this car, so sleek and aggressive on the outside, hides an earnest do-gooder secret beneath its hood. The Enigma is a hybrid, a distant cousin of the Hollywood environmentalist favorite, the Toyota Prius. It has both a normal fuel-burning engine (diesel, in this case) and an electric motor, which cooperate so the engine runs only at peak efficiency. Together, they give the Enigma an astounding fuel efficiency of 80 miles per gallon.
 But the electric motor isn't merely for fuel efficiency. It also adds crucial horsepower, allowing the Enigma to go from 0 to 60 in a mere 4.3 seconds and to cruise at a top speed of over 100 miles per hour. The result is a seeming paradox: a car potent enough to please muscle-car buffs yet eco-friendly enough to thrill environmentalists.
 ''We call it lean muscle,'' Burns said. The Enigma is not yet for sale; it is a one-of-a-kind prototype, which Burns and his team have built at their campus lab, financed by themselves, the California Energy Commission and a few philanthropic donors. They are currently designing the next generation, which will have a top speed of 217 m.p.h. while getting 40 miles to the gallon or better. Burns has formed a corporation that plans to sell the new models for $185,000 -- expensive but, as he points out, still cheaper than a Lamborghini or a Ferrari ''and with way, way better mileage.''
 This, Burns argues, is the future of hybrids. Americans will never accept them if they remain small, meek vehicles like the Toyota Prius or the Honda Insight, which have low top speeds and lackluster pulling power. No, if hybrids are going to appeal to red-meat drivers across the country, they'll need power and performance. ''We've got to produce a car that gets a 14-year-old boy excited,'' Burns said, flashing a bucktoothed grin as he sweated beneath the sun in a loud Hawaiian shirt. ''We got to have the smoking! The squealing! The tires popping off!''
 Burns is not alone in this belief. Indeed, in the last year the auto industry has decided to drastically bulk up its hybrids. Carmakers are ditching the bumper-car designs that have thus far defined the genre, and in the next two years, every new hybrid that hits the showroom will be a lumbering truck, a thundering S.U.V. or a high-powered luxury car. There is nary a podlike bubble among them. Normally these sorts of boats are infamous for their abysmal fuel economy. But when tricked out with hybrid drivetrains, they can squeeze up to 50 percent more out of a tank of gas. In essence, they are a compromise -- nowhere near as good with fuel as a Prius but nowhere near as bad as a regular S.U.V. gas guzzler.
 This past spring, Lexus released the RX 400h, an S.U.V. that contains a V-6 engine but uses two electric motors to help it perform like a V-8 -- giving it 268 horsepower and a 0 to 60 of 6.9 seconds. Next year the company will release a GS 450h luxury-car hybrid with more than 300 horsepower and ''eye-watering acceleration,'' as one Lexus official puts it. (In fact, the hybrid GS will be more powerful than the existing nonhybrid GS.) Meanwhile, Dodge is planning a hybrid version of its famously muscular ''Hemi'' S.U.V., and Ford -- which last year released the first-ever hybrid S.U.V., the Escape Hybrid -- will follow up with the 2006 Mariner Hybrid, an S.U.V. so green it has won support from the Sierra Club. ''It's sort of a 'get your cake and eat it too' experience,'' says Larry Nitz, executive director for global hybrid powertrain systems at General Motors.
 The time may be ripe for a leaner power car. After Hurricane Katrina damaged the Gulf Coast's oil industry, gas rose to more than $3 a gallon in some parts of the country. Now even rock-ribbed conservatives are looking keenly at environmental technologies. Lean, or green, muscle thus has the potential to permanently shift the landscape of American oil politics by uniting two bitterly opposed fan bases: earnest liberal conservationists and truck-driving red staters. Could the future of hybrids lie not in tiny, futuristic-looking pods but in burly S.U.V.'s and sports cars?
 To understand how hybrid technology can produce a muscle car, it's helpful to consider the basic engineering behind hybrid drivetrains. A car like the Prius derives its superb mileage from an elegant ballet performed between the fuel engine and the electric motor. The goal is to let the gas engine work only when it is most efficient to do so, which is when the car is running at roughly 20 m.p.h. or higher. A gas engine is at its worst efficiency in two situations: when it's revving fiercely to get a car moving from a standstill and when the car is idling at a stoplight and going nowhere.
 The central genius of a hybrid is that the electric engine steps in at these inefficient moments. An electric motor, as it turns out, is far better suited to accelerate from zero because of a quirk of physics -- when pushing off from a dead stop, an electric engine has much more torque than a gas engine. It's fundamentally suited to the task. Better yet, when a hybrid is stopped at a red light, the gas engine can shut down completely; it won't start up again until the electric engine has accelerated the car to that magic 20 m.p.h. point. The upshot is that a gas engine operates only in its near perfect window of efficiency, thereby burning substantially less fuel than normal. When a car brakes, the electric motors switch to ''regenerative'' mode, transforming the energy of braking into electricity that recharges the batteries. The fuel efficiency of this self-contained process in a Prius can be as high as 60 miles a gallon, or 66 miles a gallon in an Insight.
 Yet as any physicist knows, efficiency can be flipped on its head. If a hybrid system can squeeze more energy out of a single unit of gas, then why not reverse the proposition? That is, instead of using the extra juice to increase fuel economy, employ it to propel the car faster and harder.
 This is the logic behind Detroit's new hybrid muscle: take a relatively midpower gasoline engine, add electric power on top and produce the illusion of V-8 strength. After all, if you're no longer worried about maximizing mileage, those electric motors can offer drag-race-style acceleration, giving a regular gas engine the appearance of far more torque. Last fall, Toyota engineers decided to prove just this point by souping up a humble Prius to make it drive 130 m.p.h. on a dry lake bed in California. ''If you've got a system designed to produce efficiency, all you need to do is run it in reverse to produce extra output,'' according to Aaron Robinson, an editor for Car & Driver who test-drove the souped-up Prius (proclaiming it ''pretty cool'').
 Several other automakers began tinkering with this concept, creating concept cars to show just how hyperpowered a hybrid could be. In 2002, Acura produced the DN-X, which astonished car-show attendees by offering a remarkable 400 horsepower and up to 42 miles to the gallon. The next year, Mazda produced the Ibuki, a Miata-like concept vehicle with an estimated 180 horsepower.
 The real head-turner came at last year's North American International Auto Show in Detroit when Mitsubishi rolled out its Concept-E, an experimental hybrid based on the well-known Eclipse sports car. The Concept-E had an electric motor located in the rear of the car. But it had not been engineered to help the gas motor the way that a normal hybrid does. Instead, it simply provided boost, delivering extra horsepower when the driver wanted to suddenly overcharge the engine -- rather like a high-tech version of a nitrous oxide boost. On its own, the Concept-E was powered by a regular Eclipse gas engine with a healthy 263 horsepower. When the extra electric motors engaged, the car had another 150 horsepower. 
 ''So now we're talking, like, Viper territory or Corvette territory,'' says Dan Sims, the general manager of Mitsubishi's design studio in Cypress, Calif., who oversaw the construction of the Concept-E. ''That's quite a different driving experience.'' When Sims took the car for a test drive on a nearby racetrack, the electric motor produced a whine that sounded like a sci-fi jet engine. ''Remember the Batmobile in the 60's with that turbine sound?'' Sims says. ''That's what it sounds like! It was like when Captain Kirk puts it into overdrive, and the stars blur.''
 The Concept-E was geared for performance, not fuel efficiency. But as Sims points out, it did, technically, save fuel -- because getting the equivalent 400-plus horsepower out of a gas-only engine would have required burning considerably more gas. A regular sports car with comparable performance would get only about 10 miles to the gallon, Sims figures; in contrast, the Concept-E got as much as 25.
 As these experiments unfolded, the auto industry began to realize that high-performance hybrids were not only possible but might also be the answer to hybrids' enormous marketing problems. Sure, Leonardo DiCaprio and Harrison Ford were lining up to buy Toyota Priuses. But surveys showed that hybrids would never break into the mainstream because Middle America couldn't abide their feeble performance. ''Skinny tires, little engines -- they looked arguably more like a science project than a car you'd want to drive,'' says Anthony Pratt, who covers hybrids for the car-industry analyst J. D. Power & Associates.
 Indeed, Pratt's consumer surveys discovered recently that, even with rising gas prices, ''performance'' was still far and away the single most important factor in buying a car. J. D. Power polled people who owned their cars for 90 days and asked them what the most important part of their purchase was. Only 33 percent said gas mileage, and a mere 7.6 percent said ''environmental impact.'' The No. 1 factor for 62 percent of the respondents was ''reliability and durability.'' 
 To the extent that consumers worried about low fuel economy, it was as a matter of personal inconvenience: stopping to refuel every few days was a big hassle. Before Lexus began selling its 400h S.U.V. hybrid this spring, the company conducted a focus group to find out why would-be buyers wanted a hybrid. The reason: convenience. ''The big deal was, I don't have to stop that much to fuel up. That was a primary purchasing factor!'' says Dave Hermance, executive engineer for environmental engineering at Toyota's Technical Center. ''It wasn't so much the fact that 'I'm going to save $600 a year in fuel savings.' Then there was the 'Oh, yeah, it makes me feel very, very good about the environment. When my kids come home from college, they don't chew on me as hard, because I'm doing something environmentally correct.' ''
 In this new generation of high-powered hybrids, you essentially get the same powerful S.U.V. drive you've always had -- but with slightly better mileage. For example, the Lexus 400h has a six-cylinder engine, so it attains mileage of up to 27 to 32 miles per gallon. But the electric motors endow it with the feel of a V-8, a car that would normally get a measly 13 miles to the gallon. Similarly, Ford's Escape S.U.V. has only four cylinders but drives like a V-6 and gets 36 miles to the gallon. 
 When I slid behind the wheel of the Lexus 400h to give it a test drive, there was no doubt it was a luxury ride. The steering wheel robotically lowered into place; when I looked out the window, I was perched high above the plebes who scurried through the streets of Manhattan in their puny little compact cars.
 So I turned the key in the ignition to start the car and. . .nothing. No sound, no shudder of the engine awakening. Then it hit me: of course there was no sound. The 400h uses its electric motors to push off from zero, so even though the gas engine hadn't come to life yet, the car was indeed ''on.'' I gently stepped on the accelerator, and sure enough, the car drifted forward, silent as a ghost. Half a block later, the engine quietly began purring. I quickly discovered that the 400h really does perform as if it were a full V-8. When I suddenly hit the accelerator to dart out of a tight spot in traffic, the tires gave a satisfying squeal.
 Yet in other ways, the experience felt subtly different from a regular S.U.V. When I quickly sped up to get onto a highway ramp, for example, the acceleration didn't push me back into my seat the way a normal car would. This, as it turned out, is due to some intriguing physics in the hybrid drivetrain. When a regular car accelerates, it goes through a ''shift curve.'' Each time it shifts up a gear, the transmission needs to disengage for an instant, producing a moment of deceleration -- followed by a sudden fresh burst forward. It's that staggered, pulsed feeling that we typically associate with speeding up. But the hybrid 400h has a considerably more complicated ''planetary'' drivetrain, which organically weaves the efforts of the gas engine and the electric motors together. You don't feel any dead spots because whenever the gas engine is changing gears, the electric motors prevent those tiny temporary decelerations.
 ''It's deceptively smooth,'' Hermance says. When auto journalists first drove the vehicle, they were disappointed. ''The initial response was, 'Darn it, I'm not getting the big G-shock.' '' 
 The biggest engineering challenge in any high-performance hybrid is not really managing the drivetrain, however, or even the electric motors. It is the batteries. They are the linchpin of how a hybrid system performs, because they determine how long the electric motors will be able to function.
 Consider, for comparison's sake, a laptop battery. It works very slowly, taking several hours to charge, then it holds the charge for weeks at a time and dispenses it in a slow trickle. In contrast, a battery for a hybrid needs to work in huge, rapid surges. It must rapidly blast out a very big charge -- the motors in the 400h require a heavy 150 kilowatts -- and then recharge just as quickly by capturing regenerative power while braking. If you could force the 400h to drive solely on batteries, with no gas engine at all, they would last for only a minute or two. But this never happens, because in reality the batteries are constantly inhaling and exhaling energy; a single drive across town might involve a dozen such cycles.
 If you wanted to endow a hybrid with astonishingly high fuel efficiency, you'd charge the battery to its absolute peak; that way, it could spell the gas motor for the longest possible period. But a fully charged battery tends to swell with heat, and such wear and tear would significantly shorten its life span. You would have to do open-heart surgery on your hybrid, having a mechanic regularly install new batteries at a cost of several thousand dollars. Customers, Hermance realized, would never tolerate that. Indeed, surveys show they don't want to change the batteries for seven years or more. So with the 400h, Lexus did what most hybrid automakers do: they programmed the car's software to intentionally hobble the energy flow, ensuring that the regeneration would never fill the batteries more than 60 percent. This means the batteries will last years -- but potentially at the cost of significantly reducing the vehicle's fuel economy.
 At the end of my day driving the 400h, I checked the on-board computer to see what sort of mileage I had been getting. Technically, it should have been great. The stop-and-start traffic of a city like Manhattan is where a hybrid gets its best fuel economy, because when you're braking so frequently, the electric motors have many opportunities to replenish the batteries. The worst fuel economy comes from highway cruising because the gas engine is working full-time, with the electric motors doing comparatively little work.
 Yet I discovered I got only 20.4 miles per gallon. That's a bit better than a comparable Lexus S.U.V.; the GX, for example, is rated at 15 miles per gallon in city driving. But compared with an ultraefficient hybrid like the tiny three-cylinder Honda Insight -- with its 66-miles-per-gallon range -- the 400h remains a prodigious gas guzzler.
 With relatively small fuel numbers like these, many environmentalists are dismayed by the advent of green muscle. Sure, they admit these S.U.V.'s aren't quite as bad as the old ones. But is ''marginally better'' good enough for the environment? Isn't this a huge betrayal of the original promise of hybrid technology, which was supposed to help wean America off its gasoline addiction?
 ''It's incredibly unfortunate,'' John Coequyt, an energy-policy specialist for Greenpeace, says. ''Hybrids are getting bigger and faster, and there's less and less concern about efficiency. They're setting such low targets.'' A spokeswoman for the Rainforest Action Network was even more blunt: ''They're just not taking this technology seriously.''
 Indeed, the mileage picture is even worse than the automakers promise. In a dealer's room, a manufacturer will boast that its luxury hybrid gets 35 miles per gallon, based on testing done by the Environmental Protection Agency. But in actual road driving, hybrid owners frequently discover the mileage is far less. This disparity, critics say, derives from the fact that the E.P.A.'s laboratory tests do not match real-world driving. The E.P.A. runs cars on an 11-mile course of city driving, with an average speed of 24 m.p.h., followed by highway driving at an average speed of 45 m.p.h. A hybrid performs very well in a test like that, because it's heavily weighted with stop-and-go driving. In actual life, though, Americans do much more highway driving, where luxury hybrids barely outperform regular gasoline-only cars. ''The E.P.A. tests are just not realistic,'' Anthony Pratt of J. D. Power says.
 Still, some environmentalists are grudgingly pragmatic about the new trend. After Ford began work on its impending 2006 Mariner Hybrid S.U.V., promising around 33 miles per gallon, it approached the Sierra Club for an official stamp of approval to use in its advertising campaign. Surprisingly, the club agreed. ''We're not jumping up and down with glee'' over the Mariner's fuel efficiency, Daniel F. Becker, head of the Sierra Club's global warming department, admits. But if Americans are going to drive S.U.V.'s and luxury vehicles anyway, they might as well be driving models with possibly 50 percent better gas mileage, he figures. 
 Becker also worries, however, that he may be helping to create a monster. If the luxury hybrids are successful and profitable, they could metastasize to dominate the entire category of hybrids -- and automakers will abandon the goal of ultrahigh, Honda Insight-level fuel efficiency. ''It would be a shame if they killed that goose that's laying the golden egg and make the hybrid just another muscle car with a different engine,'' he says.
 Others argue that green muscle simply needs to flex further and that hybrid S.U.V.'s could more than double their mileage if only carmakers were willing to change some of their basic assumptions about car design.
 Down at San Diego State, Jim Burns pointed to his Enigma sports car, which couples high performance with 80 miles to the gallon -- more than double that of these new S.U.V.'s and luxury cars. To achieve that superb mileage, he opted for a small three-cylinder Volkswagen engine that runs on diesel. To compensate for the horsepower lost by having such a small engine, Burns chose to push the electric motors extremely hard. He used ''spiral wound'' lead-acid batteries, which can store eight and a half times as much energy as normal hybrid batteries and discharge it more than twice as powerfully.
 The catch is, the Enigma's workhorse batteries burn out more quickly. If an owner drove an Enigma at high speeds regularly, he could wind up spending thousands of dollars replacing the batteries every couple of years or so. Burns admits that only a small number of wealthy sports-car collectors could ever afford this sort of maintenance, which is why his cars will eventually be sold only to enthusiasts. Even in the world of green muscle, it seems, there's no free lunch.
 But as battery technology improves in the years to come, he thinks hybrid muscle could eventually achieve the best of both worlds -- giving us S.U.V.'s with power that get nearly 100 miles per gallon. Next year, to prove that hybrids can go farther and faster, he intends to load the Enigma with a 35-gallon gasoline reservoir and drive from San Diego to Jacksonville, Fla., on a single tank of gas.
 ''It'll get people excited,'' he said. ''We need to show them the cars they could have.'' Burns popped open the car's flaming red hood to show off the electric motor, cooling down from his drive. ''We're going to put it in a package that no one can say no to, give them their cake and eat it too.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Planetary Gearset for the Lexus RX 400h hybrid combines the energy of the gas engine and the electric motors.
Two electric motors add muscle to the Lexus RX 400h S.U.V., making it feel like a V-8.
 The Enigma can peel the rubber from your tires and get 80 miles to the gallon. Unfortunately for car nuts, it's still a prototype. (Photographs by Dan Winters for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); ENGINEERING (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



570 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; EUROPE'S 'IT' CITIES -- CLUBBING: GLASGOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Music flows from Art Deco banks and vaulted tunnels

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS. 
HEATHER TIMMONS reports for The New York Times from London.

 BODY:
The first thing you need to know about clubbing in Glasgow is that the city is tougher than you are. Forget the trappings of the cliched night out dancing in Manhattan, with its V.I.P. rooms and designer labels, women in $300 sandals, lines of limos in the Meatpacking District and ''secret'' Lower East Side nightspots. Glasgow laughs at all that. 
 On average, Glaswegians drink more, they stay out later and they dance harder than you most likely ever have. And that's just the women.
The attitude is infectious -- Glasgow manages to be aggressively welcoming. Combine that mindset with a compact city, rich in architectural gems, that has just enjoyed an economic and cultural revival and you have the perfect petri dish for an open, accessible late-night music and dancing scene to grow and thrive. 
 Clubs are tucked into Art Deco banks and nestled under tiled, vaulted tunnels; one is carved out in the buildings under a highway overpass. Most charge under $10, at $1.85 to the pound, to enter. 
 On a warm weekend in July, I toured Glasgow after dark with some friends, looking for music or a scene that we thought we couldn't find anywhere else. Our favorite spot, over all, was the Riverside Club, at 33 Fox Street, (44-141) 248-3144, a barnlike hall that is one of Glasgow's oldest music venues.
 The Riverside is known for its ceilidhs (pronounced KAY-lays), or Scottish folk dances. But several nights of the month, the Riverside morphs into a proper club, with themed nights with names like Saltlick or Fusion. On the first Friday of every month, well after midnight, this smoky, candlelit spot offers a party called Goodfoot, which features the northern soul sound, a particularly British mish-mash with roots in American soul music. Everyone, from the young women in black-framed glasses and tight tank tops to the 55-year-old men in suits, gets up and dances, and by the time we had had enough, after 3 a.m., even Glasgow's streets seemed to be quieting down a bit. 
 The next evening, we stopped first in Arta, 13-19 Walls Street, (44-141) 552-2101), a multi-floored circus of a spot, with giant candelabras, cherubs and velvet curtains, then went in search of something a little less Las Vegas. 
 Buff, a tiny red-walled club with a disco ball, 60's-style mod lamps and pleather booths at 142 Bath Lane, (44-141) 248-1777, created such a great dance-friendly vibe we had to tear ourselves onward to St. Jude's Hotel Bar, at 190 Bath Street, (44-141) 352-8800.
 In a Victorian town house, St. Jude's had an attractive-enough crowd, but one that could have been ''creative types from the advertising industry on a bender'' in any city, and a live band that played Beck covers. We yawned and left. 
 Soundhaus, at 47 Hydepark Street, (44-141) 221-4659, is the aforementioned club under an overpass. A suitably messy late-night spot with a young crowd, Soundhaus had disco in one room, and what they call ''nu metal'' in another the night we were there. I'm sure the music kept going long after we left.
 Club nights and hot spots change constantly, of course. For an overview, try www.s1play.com/clubs, and to get unvarnished reviews of clubs go to www.nightb4.com. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Scazoid on the floor at the monthly Goodfoot party at the Riverside Club in Glasgow. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); DANCE (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); WOMEN (77%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%); MUSIC (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%) Travel and Vacations; Nightclubs and Cabarets

PERSON: Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (90%) Glasgow (Scotland); Scotland

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



571 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Eliza Mahony, Daniel Erikson

 BODY:
Eliza Gardner Mahony and Daniel Porter Erikson were married yesterday. The Rev. Penny Rich Smith performed the ceremony at the Second Congregational Church in Williamstown, Mass. 
 The bride, a magna cum laude Princeton graduate, and the bridegroom, a graduate of Brown, met at Harvard, where each received a master's in public policy.
Mrs. Erikson, 30, is an investment officer at Calvert Social Investment Foundation in Bethesda, Md., which supports low-cost housing and other community services. She is the daughter of Elizabeth Winthrop and Walter B. Mahony III, both of New York. The bride's father is an architect and urban planner at Vollmer Associates here. Her mother writes children's books.
 Mr. Erikson, 32, is the director of Caribbean programs at Inter-American Dialogue, a public policy and research organization in Washington. He was an editor of ''Transforming Socialist Economies: Lessons for Cuba and Beyond'' (Palgrave Macmillan, 2005). He is the son of Donna and Gordon I. Erikson Jr. of Cumberland, Me. His mother teaches mathematics at Falmouth Middle School in Falmouth, Me. His father is a financial adviser at Merrill Lynch, in Portland, Me.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (70%) MARYLAND, USA (71%); MAINE, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (71%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



572 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Love for Sale

BYLINE: By JAY JENNINGS. 
Jay Jennings writes for Bookforum, Slate and Travel & Leisure.

 BODY:
THE Visa card functionary had called and I needed money badly. Three good jobs I'd been called in to interview for in the past three months had gone to other people, but not before my hopes (and my interest rate) had been raised. I looked around my apartment for the few valuable things I owned that would fetch a quick dollar in New York's bazaar. 
 I would not part with my great-grandmother's Tiffany-style lamp from the 1920's. I knew that the signed first edition of a book from a reclusive author would have dealers salivating, but I'd secured that 20 years ago from the man himself and was not about to give it up. Then I remembered my wedding ring.
For the past three years, since my divorce had become final, I had kept my wedding ring in a dresser drawer, inside a small leather box one of my students had brought back to me from Italy. Inside the band were engraved either the words ''Io saro tua'' or ''I will be yours.'' My ex-wife and I were both Italophiles, but I couldn't remember which of our rings held the English and which the Italian phrases we had had etched into the gold. 
 The engagement ring I'd given her she had returned to me a few years before. It had been my great-grandmother's, and my wife thought it should stay in my family. One day, while we were separated and while I was still hoping she'd return to the marriage, she met me during lunchtime in a smelly concrete park with a dog run and handed it over as leaping dogs playfully snapped at one another all around us. 
 I'd thought about selling that ring as soon as she'd given it back to me, since to my mind it was forever tainted, but getting money for it seemed crass. I also thought about hurling it from the Brooklyn Bridge, but feared that the guilt of disposing of a valuable family heirloom in so emotionally self-serving a manner would outweigh any relief the symbolic act might bring. 
 I put it in the leather box, where my own ring eventually joined it, and after a while, I decided to give it back to my mother. She took it gratefully and said, ''Well, I guess she does have some sense of responsibility.'' 
 Now, I called my elegant and savvy friend Jean to ask where I might sell the wedding band, which was all mine. She doubted that I'd get more than the price of the gold, but suggested a dealer in an arcade in the diamond district on West 47th Street. Out of some vague respect for the transaction, I changed from my jeans into slacks, dress shirt and jacket before I left my apartment in Park Slope, Brooklyn.
 On my walk to the subway, a disheveled young man -- hard to tell if he was hip, destitute or both -- rounded a corner carrying an ancient boom box out of which was pouring a gorgeous swing-era clarinet solo, probably by Artie Shaw. The man shuffled along, slower than Shaw but in rhythm. 
 As I turned toward the subway, down the block, running up the sidewalk toward me was a large man, dressed in baggy, street-cred clothes. He was holding a leash, and running beside him at the end of it was a white toy poodle. They stopped next to atree just in front of me, and as I passed them, he said to the dog in a high-pitched, pet-talk voice, ''You're such a silly girl, yes you are.'' 
 Further on, I noticed a piece of paper near the curb. For about a year, I've been taking pictures of items on the sidewalks with my cellphone camera, trying to capture the poignant ephemerality of objects soon to be literally swept away. 
 I bent over the paper and saw it was a photocopy of a musical score. When I leaned closer, I saw that the title of the song was ''Happiness'' from ''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown.'' I snapped it.
 Cumulatively, these incidents seemed to impart a grace that ushered me on my mission to relieve myself of the ring that was rattling in the leather box in my pocket. Or perhaps I wanted some kind of benediction so badly that I perceived it in the overheard Artie Shaw solo, in the comic juxtaposition and touching affection between the big man and the small dog, in the lost ''Happiness'' on the sidewalk, unsung but carrying a message.
 At the tiny booth in the arcade on 47th Street, I waited for the woman behind the counter to finish with two customers trying on antique earrings. After she finished writing the receipt for their purchase, she apologized for keeping me waiting.
 I EXPLAINED that I had a man's wedding ring I wanted to sell. I removed the box from my pocket and opened it. She placed a jeweler's magnifying device in her eye, picked up the ring and examined it thoroughly.
 ''What do you want for it?''
 ''I don't have any idea.''
 ''Well, you have to tell me something. I can't bid against myself.''
 ''It's my -- it was my wedding ring. I can't -- I don't want to haggle about it. I just want it out of my life.''
 She looked at the ring again with the magnifying eye. How often had she done this, I wondered. How often had she taken the highly symbolic piece and transmuted it to mere gold, making her a kind of alchemist of disappointment and regret. Then she removed a small scale from behind the counter and dropped the ring on it. The number 5 appeared in the electronic display.
 ''Penny weight for gold is 12 cents an ounce,'' she said. I had no idea what she was talking about, and for a moment, I thought she might offer me 60 cents for it. But she said: ''I can give you $100. That's a fair price.''
 After a complicated set of maneuvers involving signatures and rubber stamps, she handed me my receipt, then turned away, probably relieved to be rid of me and my sob story.
 ''Uh, excuse me,'' I called to her. ''You didn't give me the money.''
 She looked embarrassed. ''Oh, I'm so sorry.'' She glanced around the little booth until she saw the $100 bill she'd left on the counter behind her.
 I thought that I should treat myself in some way, trade the cash from the symbol of my marriage for some other symbolic gesture of freedom for myself, but instead I went into a nearby bank branch and exchanged the bill for five 20's. These, I knew, I would deplete in the course of my daily living, as Mike Campbell in ''The Sun Also Rises'' describes how he went broke, ''gradually and then suddenly.''
 On the walk home from my subway stop, I retraced my steps. The baggy-clothed man was standing on the sidewalk, leaning on a fence in front of a brownstone and talking to an angry-postured woman on the other side. As I passed, they were arguing over where he'd been, and she jabbed her finger at him in rebuke, saying: ''You. Was. Not.'' 
 ''Happiness'' lay just ahead on the sidewalk, not yet swept away. I picked it up. It now had a footprint on it. 
 The shuffling Shaw man was nowhere to be seen.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Cary Conover for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); WRITERS (70%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VISA INC (91%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



573 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Bad Bets in the Catskills

 BODY:
Hurricane Katrina's destruction of Mississippi's huge riverboat casinos offers a tantalizing metaphor for the hazards of using the roulette wheel to pay state debts. New York's casinos are probably safe from hurricanes, but the big betting parlors pose their own peril to New Yorkers and to the politicians who are banking on gambling to keep the state budget in the black. 
 As a general rule, trying to solve a state's financial problems by hitting the jackpot eventually brings as many problems as it does dollars. But what should be even more important right now to New York's political leaders is that the stated reasons for building a string of casinos in the Catskills, never convincing in the first place, are now even less so. 
 Not long ago, lawmakers in Albany faced the prospect of five casinos stretching across the recreational areas of the Catskills, from Kutsher's Sports Academy near Monticello eastward to an area near the Shawangunk Ridge. Five sites became three, and then, near the end of this year's legislative session, only one was really on the table. It would be either at the old Kutsher's complex or at the racetrack at Monticello -- sites that were deemed less offensive, at least environmentally.
 The Kutsher's site was not approved by the Legislature, mainly because Joseph Bruno, the Senate majority leader, wanted two other casinos in the Catskills as well. Mr. Bruno's son is a lobbyist for one of the tribes that wants a casino near the Shawangunks, an area with some of the most beautiful vistas in the Catskills. 
 When the Legislature was considering these casinos earlier this year, representatives of the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York arrived with heavy artillery -- aerial photos giving a vivid picture of the damage casinos could inflict on what is now a largely untroubled landscape. 
 One photograph showed a site on the pristine Neversink River, which has an almost legendary allure for trout fishermen in New York State; another showed a site under the majestic Shawangunk Ridge. It was not hard to visualize a pristine forest sliced and diced by roads and traffic.
 Meanwhile, Sullivan County, which is typically described as being so destitute that people would gladly take casino jobs, has begun showing signs of an economic revival on its own. As city and suburban residents spread out to the Catskills to find second homes, there are jobs for people to build and maintain those homes, and money to be made in a growing retail economy. 
 Finally, the pressure on Governor George Pataki to negotiate casino deals as a way to settle Indian claims on New York land has eased, at least momentarily, after two court rulings that appear to make pressing those claims more difficult. 
 All of which gives Mr. Pataki and other state leaders reason to get out of the casino business. For all sorts of reasons -- economic, social, environmental -- it's not a good bet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); GAMING (90%); WEATHER (79%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (63%); WILDERNESS (61%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); SUBURBS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



574 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1850 words

HEADLINE: Is It Better to Buy or Rent?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
THE thought has occurred to just about everybody who owns a home in a hot housing market: maybe it's time to cash out.
 The hard part is figuring out how to do so. Only a few families can actually pick up their life in, say, California and move it to Nebraska. The other option -- renting -- has long been derided as the equivalent of throwing money away.
 But renting might deserve another look right now. After five years in which rents have barely budged while house prices in New York, Washington, Los Angeles and elsewhere have doubled, renting has become a surprisingly smart option for many people who never would have considered it before. 
 Owning a home often ties up hundreds of thousands of dollars that might be invested more safely and more lucratively elsewhere over the next decade. And while real estate brokers may hate to acknowledge it, home ownership involves its own versions of throwing money away, like property taxes and the costs of borrowing. 
 Add it all up -- which The New York Times did, in an analysis of the major costs and benefits of owning and renting, including tax breaks -- and owning a home today is more expensive than renting in much of the Northeast, Florida and California. Only if prices rise well above their already lofty levels will home ownership turn out to be the good deal that it is widely assumed to be.
 In the Bay Area of California, a typical family that buys a $1 million house -- which is average in some towns -- will spend about $5,000 a month to live there, according to the Times analysis. The family could rent a similar house for about $2,500, real estate records show, and could pay part of that bill with the interest earned by the money that was not used for a down payment.
 This gaping difference helped persuade Eloise Christensen to sell her century-old Victorian cottage in downtown Larkspur, Calif., for $1.05 million this year. Now she rents a two-story house in Stinson Beach for $2,400 a month. From her living room, she can sip tea and watch the waves from the Pacific Ocean.
 ''It just seems out of control,'' said Ms. Christensen, 43, a massage therapist and graphic designer. ''It didn't seem to me that the market was going to be able to sustain these high prices.''
 There are obviously benefits to home ownership beyond the financial, like peace of mind and a feeling of stability. Owners cannot have their home yanked away by a landlord who has decided to move back in. Owners can also change the color of their living room walls or fix a draft seeping through their windows without asking permission. 
 Surrounding her Larkspur cottage, Ms. Christensen had built a garden with rosemary, lavender and boxwood hedges to complement the pear and fig trees already there. She is not doing anything like that in Stinson Beach. 
 Combine these benefits with the transaction costs of a house sale, and renting probably does not make sense for most people who already own their home and feel settled in it. 
 But the calculation can look quite different for those who are considering a move anyway or who do not yet own a home. At the very least, renters in boom markets, who often lament that they are wasting money, should know that their choice has as powerful an economic rationale as buying does right now.
 ''I am a proponent of buying,'' said Tchaka Owen, 37, a loan officer and licensed real-estate agent in Miami who is renting a two-bedroom apartment overlooking the bay there. ''But you can get so much more for your money, renting instead of buying. We're paying half the amount we would be paying if we owned this place.''
 In Manhattan, 1,000-square-foot, two-bedroom apartments on the Upper East Side now rent for about $3,700 a month. Buying a similar apartment costs around $1.1 million, which can translate into monthly payments of $6,000 or so. 
 To determine the cost of renting, the Times analysis added monthly rent and renters' insurance. For owning, the analysis included typical costs for home insurance, major repairs, property taxes and mortgage payments, as well as the tax deductions they create. 
 Renters were given credit for a small return -- about 4 percent, after taxes -- on the money they could have invested in bonds or stocks instead of spending it on a down payment and closing costs. Buyers received credit for the portion of the mortgage they were paying off, as opposed to the interest costs.
 When the net costs of owning are less than those of renting, as is the case in Chicago, Dallas, St. Louis and much of the middle of the country, the argument for buying becomes overwhelming. So long as home prices do not fall sharply, home buyers in these places will do much better than renters.
 But when owning is more expensive every month, buyers are betting entirely on price appreciation.
 For new home buyers, prices in New York would need to rise roughly another 13 percent over the next five years for the average buyer to do better than the average renter over that span. In Northern California, where the gap between house prices and rents is largest, home values would need to go up about 19 percent by 2010.
 Over the next decade, the break-even increase is about 25 percent in New York and 40 percent in California.
 Such increases have been easily achieved in the recent past. But even economists who do not consider the real estate market to be in a bubble predict that price gains will slow. Other forecasters argue that values will fall, as they did on the coasts in the early 1990's, or be stuck near their current levels for years to come. No matter who is right, the buy-versus-rent debate is a closer call than it has been in years.
 ''If you believe you'll be moving in the next four or five years, I'd rent,'' said Thomas Z. Lys, an accounting professor at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University . ''If you're a long-termer, I still would buy.''
 The single biggest misconception about home ownership, some brokers and economists say, might revolve around tax deductions. Many people seem to believe that buying a home can actually save them money because the interest on their mortgage is tax deductible.
 But all that deduction does is reduce the cost of borrowing the money -- a cost that would not exist if the family were not buying the home. Families spend about six years in a house, on average, according to the National Association of Realtors. In that time, the interest on a $600,000 mortgage would add up to about $120,000, even at today's low rates and even after the tax deduction, according to National City Corporation, a large lender.
 ''Don't be buying a house because you think you're saving on the taxes,'' said Frank Borges LLosa, owner of FranklyRealty.com, a brokerage in Arlington, Va. ''You'll save even more by not buying and renting.''
 Mr. LLosa added: ''I'm not saying not to buy. I'm saying don't buy just for the tax reasons.''
 Many homeowners also do not receive the full deductions from home ownership. In the Northeast and California, homeowners now have so many deductions that some must pay the alternative minimum tax. This tax effectively wipes out part of their property-tax deduction, further cutting into the benefits of home ownership. 
 Other homeowners do not itemize their deductions or, if they do so, end up with total deductions only a little larger than the standard deduction that the government offers to all taxpayers, even renters.
 ''A lot of people hugely overvalue the mortgage deduction,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal group in Washington, ''because they compare it to no deduction instead of comparing it to the standard deduction.'' 
 Mr. Baker is one of the avant garde renters. He and his wife sold their condominium in Washington last year for $445,000 and now rent a similar one nearby for $2,200 a month.
 The Times analysis made a number of assumptions favorable to buyers, like giving them full credit for the deductions for mortgage interest and property taxes, noted Mark Zandi, chief economist of Economy.com, a research company. Still, the monthly costs of buying were more expensive than those for renting in any market where the price of a typical house was more than 20 times larger than the annual rent to live in it.
 In the Bay Area, this ''rent ratio'' exceeds 33. In New York, Boston, Los Angeles and Miami, it is just above 25. A typical four-bedroom house in Brookline, Mass., for example, costs about $1.2 million to buy and $4,500 a month to rent, according to Chobee Hoy Associates Real Estate, a brokerage there. 
 At 20, Washington is right near the cutoff. But renters who live in apartment buildings, like Mr. Baker, often get an extra benefit: some portion of their utilities bill is typically covered by the building's owner.
 Mr. Owen, the loan officer in Miami, and his girlfriend, Polly Thompson, pay $1,700 a month for a top-floor apartment that has views of both the city's skyline and the Atlantic Ocean. After talking to brokers, he said he thought that the apartment would sell for close to $650,000, giving it a rent ratio of more than 30.
 ''It's obvious,'' he said, ''that renting is such a better deal.'' 
 But to many people, the psychological benefits of buying are almost impossible to overcome. Owning makes them feel that they have achieved the American dream, or it gives them the secure sense that, if nothing else, they have a tangible asset where they can sleep at night.
 Those are nice feelings, indeed. The question is how much they are worth to you. 

How the Numbers Were Calculated
 THE comparison of renting versus buying examined the major costs of both options, using averages and estimates from several sources. 
 For buyers, the assumptions included:
 A down payment of 20 percent of a house's value.
 A mortgage interest rate of 5.35 percent. That is roughly the initial rate on a jumbo mortgage with no points and a fixed rate for the first five years, according to BankRate.com.
 An annual property tax rate equal to 1.25 percent of a house's purchase value, a rate that is typical throughout much of the Northeast and California.
 Annual spending on repairs and renovations equal to 1 percent of the house's purchase value, based on government data about household spending.
 A home insurance policy that annually costs 0.3 percent of the house's purchase value, based on data collected by the Insurance Information Institute.
 Transaction costs equal to 4 percent of a house's value.
 A marginal tax rate -- for federal, state and local taxes combined -- of 35 percent.
 For renters, the calculations were based on:
 A comparison of house prices and rents in 54 metropolitan areas, provided by Economy.com.
 Annual rent increases of 3.5 percent.
 Renters' insurance equal to roughly $15 to $20 a month, depending on the house's value.
 Annual, after-tax return of 4 percent on the money that would otherwise have been spent on a down payment. This is the same discount rate used to compare money spent in 2005 with money spent in future years. DAVID LEONHARDT


GRAPHIC: Photos: Florida -- Polly Thompson and Tchaka Owen love their Miami building's water views. Their rent is $1,700 a month. (Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)
California -- In Mill Valley, this water-view house at 269 Richardson Drive was bought for $1.4 million by an owner who is now offering it for rent for $3,100 a month. (Photographs by Thor Swift for The New York Times)
Virginia -- The house at 1506 Mintwood Drive in McLean, top, sold for $829,900. A similar house nearby, at 1514 Mintwood Drive, above, rents for $3,500. (Photographs by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
MAKING THE COMPARISON -- This apartment at 30 East Huron in Chicago, top, rents for $1,300 a month
a similar apartment, above, is for sale for $259,000, according to Chicago Apartment Finders. (Photographs by Steve Kagan for The New York Times)
A BETTER DEAL -- Eloise Christensen and her dog Newton on the deck of her rental in Stinson Beach, Calif. She sold her house in Larkspur, above, in part because prices seem too high. (Photographs by Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. 13)Chart: ''Adding It Up''Below is a comparison of typical threebedroom houses in the suburbs of San Francisco and New York. In the San Francisco area, the house costs $1 million and rents for about $2,500, according to local data
in New York, it costs $750,000 and rents for about $2,400.San FranciscoMonthly figuresBUYINGMORTGAGE PAYMENT*: $3,200HOMEOWNERS' INSURANCE: $250PROPERTY TAX*: $700REPAIRS+: $800TOTAL COST: $4,950RENTINGRENT: $2,500RENTERS' INSURANCE: $20RETURN ON SAVINGS<7>: -$800TOTAL COST: $1,720New YorkMonthly figuresBUYINGMORTGAGE PAYMENT*: $2,400HOMEOWNERS' INSURANCE: $190PROPERTY TAX*: $500REPAIRS+: $630TOTAL COST: $3,720RENTINGRENT: $2,400RENTERS' INSURANCE: $15RETURN ON SAVINGS<7>: -$600TOTAL COST: $1,815*After tax deductions.+Based on annual spending.<7>Investment return on money not used for down payment and closing costs.(Source by New York Times data analysis)(pg. 1)Chart: ''By the Numbers''For buying a home to be a better investment than renting in hot real estate markets, house prices will need to continue rising. The following shows a five-year comparison of the anticipated costs of buying and renting in the San Francisco and New York regions.TYPICAL COSTSFive-year cumulative figuresSan FranciscoOWNING: $311,000RENTING: $123,000The house's value would have to rise 19 percent over five years for buying to be a better investment.New YorkOWNING: $233,000RENTING: $134,000The house's value would have to rise 13 percent over five years for buying to be a better investment.Note: The totals are expressed in 2010 dollars -- the year when the house would be sold -- and adjusted to account for the time value of money
 that is, $100 today is more valuable than $100 in five years.(Sources by New York Times analysis of data provided by Economy.com, Insurance Information Institute, Tax Policy Center)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (78%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



575 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: He Knows When to Fold 'Em

BYLINE: By BRIAN P. MURPHY

DATELINE: CAPE MAY 

 BODY:
CURTIS BASHAW, who surprised many state officials several weeks ago when he announced that he was stepping down as executive director of the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, will leave with his winnings intact despite his brief tenure and Democratic infighting over his successor. 
 For one thing, the 45-year-old Mr. Bashaw, an owner of the tradition-rich and trendy Congress Hall Hotel in Cape May, is keeping a big toe in the water. He plans to parlay the experience he gleaned at the reinvestment agency as the chairman of a new nonprofit group, the Jersey Shore Tourism Corporation. About half of its $1 million budget for the next year will come from the casino authority.
''I want to see my work bear fruit, and this will be one way I can do that,'' Mr. Bashaw said in a recent telephone interview from Tuscany, where he was on vacation. In his new position, he said, he will be able to continue to work ''to make the Jersey Shore a brand and destination that will compete with the Hamptons, Cape Cod and the Outer Banks.'' 
 Mr. Bashaw will serve without a salary as the chairman, but as he well knows, a rising tide lifts all boats. Work that creates a more economically vibrant Shore will probably enhance the profitability of his real estate business, Cape Advisors Inc., a partnership established with a financier, Craig D. Wood. The two partners are also involved in a hotel-to-condominium conversion adjacent to Congress Hall, along with David Von Savage, a co-owner of Congress Hall and the chairman of the Cape May County Republican Party. 
 ''I promised Craig that I would not do this job for more than a year or so, and it's been a year and a half now,'' Mr. Bashaw said of his role at the reinvestment authority. ''We have a lot to work on.'' 
 Contrary to rumors in the State House and among his supporters, Mr. Bashaw emphatically denied he would seek a position in the next administration in Trenton. 
 ''I've had a great time doing this, but I'm not in a financial position at this stage of my career when I can do this kind of work long term,'' he said. ''I am not putting my name out there. It would be presumptuous.''
 And although Mr. Bashaw, a Republican, left Democrats and Republicans alike praising his work at the reinvestment authority, he did create something of a political quandary by resigning, effective Sept. 30, rather than waiting until the end of the year, when a newly elected governor would have been able to make his own appointment to the influential $137,500-a-year post.
 With $180 million in assets, the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority is one of the three most important and best financed agencies in the state, along with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which operates the Meadowlands.
 ''That Democrats can't agree on who should replace me isn't really my problem,'' Mr. Bashaw said. ''My decision to resign was completely personal. I didn't think about the election. Governor Codey didn't ask me to step down. In fact, I think he would have been happy to have me stay.''
 Indeed, Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey probably would have, since Mr. Bashaw's premature departure touched off a new and sharp-edged round of political gamesmanship between him and one of the most powerful Democrats in the state, George E. Norcross III, the putative party leader in South Jersey with whom he has tangled in the past.
 ''There's no love lost between Codey and Norcross, and they both want to be able to control this appointment.'' said David Rebovich, a professor of political science at Rider University. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Codey named the current labor commissioner, Thomas D. Carver, as the executive director of the reinvestment agency. His administration began circulating Mr. Carver's name as a potential successor within days of Mr. Bashaw's announced departure, drawing the criticism of several members of the agency. On Sept. 7, a day after Mr. Bashaw announced his intention to step down, some members of the 17-member authority board with ties to Mr. Norcross sent the agency's chairman, Vincent Giblin, a letter asking him to delay Mr. Bashaw's departure until the end of the year and allow a new governor to appoint an executive director in consultation with them. 
 But last Monday, Mr. Codey tried to dismiss one of the board members who signed the letter, Linda Kassekert, a Camden County Democratic leader and the chairwoman of the state Casino Control Commission. In response, a Camden County Superior Court judge issued a temporary injunction to prevent her ouster, saying the governor could not dismiss an authority board member without a hearing; one has been set for Friday. 
 The attorney general, Peter Harvey, has appealed that order. A spokesman for his office declined to comment on the judge's decision.
 Stirring the pot even more, 13 South Democratic legislators from South Jersey, led by State Senator John Adler, who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, sent Mr. Codey a letter defending Mrs. Kassekert.
 ''Linda sent an innocuous letter,'' said her lawyer, William Tambussi. ''This is nothing but political retaliation by the acting governor as a way to bully someone onto the board.''
 Declining to elaborate on the squabbling, Kelly Heck, a spokeswoman for Governor Codey, said simply, ''The governor felt it was time for a change.''
 The infighting provided a reminder of what made Mr. Bashaw an attractive appointment for Gov. James E. McGreevey in 2004: his business savvy and political independence. 
 ''Curtis was the perfect candidate,'' said Paul Fader, who was reviewing potential appointments to the state's boards and authorities at the time and is now Mr. Codey's chief counsel. ''We all knew his work.'' 
 Mr. Bashaw got his start as Cape May hotelier with the Virginia Hotel, a venerable Victorian that he bought in 1989 and turned into a boutique hostelry.
 But the renovation of Congress Hall, a 107-room hotel at the southern end of Cape May's pedestrian mall, established Mr. Bashaw's reputation. The colonnaded Congress Hall is a Shore icon, with a 200-year history as a favorite vacation hideaway for senators, governors and several presidents. 
 Although an intraparty battle is not one that Democrats relish in the middle of a gubernatorial campaign, that, as Mr. Bashaw said, is not his worry. But at the end of the day, politics is to Congress Hall what witches are to Salem. 
 The hotel's name stems from the election of its founder, Thomas Hughes, to Congress in 1828. Later in the century, Congress Hall was host to Presidents James Buchanan, Franklin Pierce and Ulysses S. Grant; Benjamin Harrison made it his summer White House.
 Guests like Assemblyman Bill Baroni, a Republican from Hamilton, unblushingly call Congress Hall a ''great addition to the political world of New Jersey.''
 ''Nobody sticks around in Trenton anymore, so you don't get to know people,'' Mr. Baroni said. ''But if I go down there, I can chat with people in this political oasis.''
 Dale Florio, a lobbyist and chairman of the Somerset County Republican Party, says he has made valuable contacts at Congress Hall. ''I can see someone there and get to know them a bit, and since I'm on vacation I keep it light, but I can follow up with a phone call later,'' Mr. Florio said. ''Curtis and David have done a great job of attracting people of both parties. I guess you could call it Trenton South.''
 Leonard Lance, the Senate Republican leader, recalls visiting the hotel as a child in the 1950's, when his father served in the State Senate with Charles Sandman, one of the hotel's owners at the time. ''He would invite the entire Senate to come down there for a weekend,'' Mr. Lance said. ''My brother and I learned to swim in their pool.'' 
 Political guests continue to find Mr. Bashaw's hotel a magnet. Just how much of one was illustrated in July when Mr. McGreevey, who is scarcely seen in public these days, strode into Congress Hall with a few friends during the Fourth of July weekend and headed to a corner of the Brown Room bar -- a high-ceilinged room right out of 1950's Havana, with rich chocolate walls and zebra-print rugs. 
 Most bar patrons were too taken with their mojitos to notice the former governor along with James Fox, his onetime chief of staff and current deputy executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Mr. Fader; and Susan Bass Levin, who days earlier had left the State Department of Community Affairs, where she was commissioner, to become the chairwoman of Senator Jon S. Corzine's gubernatorial campaign.
 Like his guests, Mr. Bashaw has witnessed firsthand the value of a legacy.
 Another former governor, Christie Whitman, whose administration provided public financing for Congress Hall's seven-year $22 million renovation, came from Washington, where she headed the Environmental Protection Agency after stepping down as governor, to cut the ribbon at the hotel in the spring of 2002. Mr. Bashaw suggested inviting Mr. McGreevey, who had recently been sworn in as governor. But Mr. Von Savage, Mr. Bashaw's business partner, warned that would risk offending Ms. Whitman.
 After Mr. McGreevey learned he would not be invited, he booked a room at the hotel. 
 When the new governor finally visited that October, Mr. Bashaw showed off Congress Hall. But by then, the dining room adjacent to the Harrison Room had been christened the Whitman Room.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The renovation of the Congress Hall Hotel cemented Curtis Bashaw's reputation. The hotel's Brown Room bar, above, is reminiscent of 1950's Havana. Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, far left, and George Norcross III tangled over the appointment of Mr. Bashaw's successor as the executive director of the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority.
Curtis Bashaw, a hotelier, draws praise of Democrats and Republicans alike. (Photo by The New York Times)
(Photo by Courier-Post)
 (Photographs by Mary Godleski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GAMING (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); GOVERNORS (58%) Gambling; Casinos; Biographical Information; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: Casino Reinvestment Development Authority (NJ); Jersey Shore Tourism Corp

PERSON: Curtis Bashaw; Brian P Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



576 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFS: EDUCATION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: FEWER A's AT PRINCETON 

BYLINE: By Karen W. Arenson

 BODY:
Princeton University significantly reduced the number of A's it gave out last year, according to a report released by the university, but it still wants to do more. Roughly 41 percent of the grades given in undergraduate courses last year were A-pluses, A's or A-minuses, down from 46 percent the previous year and 48 percent the year before that. 
In April 2004, the Princeton faculty set a goal of 35 percent. The school year that ended in May was the first year under the policy. ''We are all very proud of our faculty for committing themselves to this very bold initiative,'' said T. Kyle Vanderlick, the chairwoman of the chemical engineering department and a member of the committee that reported on the changes in grading. ''And we were delighted with the progress we have made.''
The committee, which included deans, department chairmen and other faculty members, said if there was as much change in grades in the current academic year as there had been in the last academic year, Princeton would reach its goal at the end of this school year. Nancy Malkiel, dean of the college and one of the architects of the plan to cut grade inflation, said that reducing the number of A's was important to give students a more accurate picture of how they were doing and to inspire them to work harder. Karen W. Arenson


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (54%) Colleges and Universities; Grading of Students

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%) Princeton University

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



577 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: As for the World of Heated Pools but No Playgrounds, Show Me to the Gate

BYLINE: By Paula Span. 
paulaspan@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''YOU have all hardwood floors in here,'' the saleswoman was saying, leading me through one of the condos at Horizons at Mount Arlington. ''Upgraded cabinets. Granite countertops.'' 
 ''The clubhouse will be right there'' -- she gestured through the windows at the construction site -- ''and the pool behind it.'' 
I can see why there are so many red pushpins on the diagram in the visitors' center, indicating units already sold. This complex is not for me: I have a taste for old buildings, these are spindly-tree new; I prefer urban and walkable; this is exurban Morris County. But lots of people -- if they had $400,000 or more to spend -- would be delighted to move into this cluster of buildings near Lake Hopatcong, with a tennis court and fitness center, all right there on the cul de sac. 
 What I don't get is why they'd want all their neighbors to be 55 or older. The place will have a heated pool but no playground; people under 19 can visit, but can't stay for longer than three months. This isn't senior housing that provides health care or assisted living, understand; Horizons looks like any other luxe condo complex. You'd probably have to hang out awhile before you noticed that almost everyone you saw, however vibrant, was eligible for Social Security, or close. 
 Such ''active adult communities'' are popping up all over the state and selling out speedily. Hovnanian has 15 developments, all called Four Seasons, with about 7,700 units completed or under way. Del Webb, which started the trend with Sun City in Arizona in the 1960's and insists on referring to its buyers as ''55 and better,'' has planted its flag in Vorhees, Somerset and Wanaque. 
 Kara, developer of the Mount Arlington complex, has almost a thousand units built or under construction. ''This is going to be a large part of the housing market in New Jersey for many years,'' said Kara's marketing chief, Bill Buhrman.
 It's clear why builders are enthusiastic: the 55-to-64 demographic is the country's fastest growing. As a generation downsizes, there will be lots of customers for housing that is (don't you love builder talk?) ''highly amenitized.'' It's clear, too, why local governments are welcoming: lots of new tax revenue, but no accompanying influx of children, no schools to build or teachers to hire. 
 The appeal to buyers is less obvious. Yes, you get to relinquish mowing and shoveling. At the Del Webb villages, a ''lifestyle director'' organizes yoga classes and boccie games and plans excursions. And you get neighbors like yourselves. Buyers ''want to be around like-minded people who've had the same experiences and are in the same phase of life,'' said Caryn Klebba of Del Webb.
 Yet it strikes me as a recipe for insularity, even though I am over 55. Won't residents miss having small superheroes ring the doorbell on Halloween? And teenagers posing for photos in their prom regalia? 
 Maybe not.
 ''We're not interested in all ages,'' Sophia Bonadeo explained to me as she and her husband, Joseph, were shuttling furnishings into their condo at Horizons. They worry about noise, she said -- maybe, as two retired teachers, they've had enough of kids' clamor -- and ''here, it's very peaceful.'' 
 But even if we all sometimes roll our eyes at drivers whose cars' thudding sound systems shake the asphalt, what about the rest of the population? Thirty-year-old commuters? Forty-year-old entrepreneurs, homemakers, artists? To the ethnic and economic separateness that already characterizes so many towns and neighborhoods, these places add age segregation. 
 ''Multigenerations living in proximity, age diversity, is something that's very healthy for communities,'' said Richard Johnson of the Urban Land Institute. ''I guess it can happen at a senior center when the schoolkids visit'' -- but he prefers everyday interactions, what planners call ''casual collisions,'' on neighborhood sidewalks.
 You wonder, too, as such complexes spread, if local governments will have to work still harder to have school bond issues passed. Out of sight could truly become out of mind. 
 Then again, the inexorable force of demographics will eventually kick in. There's a built-in expiration date for market growth here: after the baby boom comes the baby bust, the far smaller cohort born after 1965. Twenty-some years from now, if builders have created too many such preserves, the places may start to empty, and homeowners' associations and municipalities will scramble to change the rules. 
 You can already envision the real estate ads, can't you? One-floor living! Laundry rooms in each unit! Community clubhouses with on-site day care centers! Perfect for young couples and new families, just starting out.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); CHILDREN (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); YOGA (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%) Housing

PERSON: Paula Span

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



578 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Another Order To Go

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
AFTER 116 years, Lenox is breaking the china.
 For more than a century Lenox, one of the premier names in fine china, was manufactured in New Jersey, first in Trenton and later in Pomona. But changing lifestyles -- more pizza and paper plates -- and the economic imperatives of a global economy have intruded.
In a few weeks, the Lenox imprint will no longer be stamped on china made in New Jersey. Department 56, based in Eden Prairie, Minn., the new owners of Lenox, announced that it planned to close the Pomona plant less than two weeks after taking over ownership on Sept. 1. 
 Nearly 300 employees will be out of work as the factory beings to shut down operations in mid-November and ultimately closes about a month later, shifting operations to any number of plants around the world, primarily in China and eastern Europe. All that will remain are about 80 workers who will continue making Gorham sterling silver flatware.
 In addition, the company, which is primarily a gift and decorative-porcelain business these days, plans to close about half of its 61 retail outlets nationwide, although for now it says stores in Cranbury, Flemington, Mount Laurel and Galloway Township will remain open.
 ''Let's start with consumers and lifestyles,'' said Mitchell Massey, chief marketing and brand officer at Lenox, which will keep its offices in Lawrenceville under Department 56. ''People are becoming a little less formal and more casual.''
 Department 56 will actually be the third generation of Lenox owners. In 1983, Brown-Forman of Louisville, Ky., known primarily for its distilleries like Jack Daniels, bought Lenox, which had become a publicly held company, and took it private. It quickly built two factories in North Carolina, historically a more unfriendly state for unions, and started production of the more casual china there. One of those plants, in Kinston, will continue to make about 10 percent of Lenox's china.
 When the Lenox plant opened in Pomona in 1954, it was proclaimed the most modern, sophisticated factory in the world making fine dinnerware. In the years after World War II, the economy was thriving and people started looking for their first luxuries. Better china was among them.
 The most popular Lenox patterns had regal but simple names -- Westwind, Jewel, Kingsley -- and were simple and elegant in style as well. They were wildly successful sellers, too, and by the 1960's, the company said more than half of the better dinnerware in the country had the Lenox imprint. Most of the finer pieces were crafted and hand-painted in Pomona, and the employees in what was then the rural outback of Atlantic County felt as regal as the plates they made.
 ''This was a perfect place to work and everyone was treated well,'' said Bruce Crowe, whose father came to Pomona from Lenox's original plant in Trenton. Mr. Crowe himself has worked at the Pomona plant for 41 years and is the current president of the factory union, Local 236A of the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics and Allied Workers International Union. ''They wanted the union here. They wanted good workers. They got them and everyone was proud.''
 But Pomona was really the company's adopted home. 
 Walter Lenox started working in the porcelain business as a teenager, when the industry's American center was Trenton, which at one time had as many as 200 plants and was called the ''Staffordshire of America,'' in deference to the English home of fine china.
 Mr. Lenox started his business in 1889 as more of a fine art studio -- even calling it the Lenox Ceramic Art Company -- but soon started selling in sets. It got a big boost when Woodrow Wilson, who had been governor of New Jersey and the president of Princeton University before being elected president in 1912, ordered Lenox china for the White House. Lenox has since updated the White House china for the Roosevelts, Trumans, Reagans and Clintons. Mr. Massey said the Bushes currently use the Reagan pattern. 
 Mr. Crowe said that he is paid $17.39 an hour and that the average worker in Pomona gets about $15 an hour. Until about five years ago, he said, there were three shifts, with ample overtime opportunities.
 ''People are just disturbed and disillusioned,'' said Richard Klein, a spokesman for the national office of the union. ''It's another case of leaving behind a skilled and dedicated work force for low-wage workers in nonunion states and foreign countries.''
 While Lenox stayed in New Jersey far longer than the other china companies, it finally succumbed to the call of low-wage workers.
 ''What is troubling about Lenox in a certain way is that in the long march, Lenox has been a luxury brand,'' said Philip Scranton, the Board of Governors Professor of the History of Industry and Technology at Rutgers-Camden. ''This didn't seem like the type of thing that could just be made more cheaply in Sri Lanka. Now we are seeing not just mass-production manufacturing leaving.''
 Mr. Crowe said the typical Lenox worker in Pomona is 55, nearing retirement and, he said, almost living in a different era.
 ''Lenox came here when South Jersey was suffering and made things better,'' said Mr. Crowe, 59. He said he was about three years from full retirement benefits and, though he will have some pension, is ready to be trained for other work. 
 ''I do feel bad, but it was something I saw coming for a long time,'' he said. ''It has been a good living. I have a home and have raised a family here. Now it will be time for something else.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Crowe has worked in Pomona for 41 years and is president of the factory union. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SILVERWARE & HOLLOWARE MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (77%); DISTILLERIES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); RETAILERS (71%); DIVESTITURES (69%); RELOCATIONS (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Tableware; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Relocation of Business; Tableware; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional)

ORGANIZATION: Lenox (Co); Department 56 Inc

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (88%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%) Pomona (Nj) ; China; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



579 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: Help Wanted: Lo Pay, Hi Expenses

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
WHEN John W. Caracciolo, president of the Morey Organization in Garden City, needed a new general manager two years ago for the three radio stations his company owns on Long Island, he asked the manager of his company's station in suburban Philadelphia to consider a transfer and promotion to the job. 
 But there was no chance. He lived in a $350,000 home in Jenkintown, Pa., Mr. Caracciolo said, ''and he was accustomed to that size of home and that style of living.'' A comparable home -- four bedrooms, two and a half baths, a two-car garage, on an acre and a half -- anywhere near Garden City would have cost $1 million or more.
One might be had for $600,000 out in Manorville, but property taxes would be three to four times what the man paid in Pennsylvania, Mr. Caracciolo said, ''and the commute to Garden City would have been miserable.'' 
 The high cost of living on the Island is becoming a major issue for businesses as well as for consumers. The gap is widening between the wages companies are prepared to pay, especially for newly created jobs, and the incomes their workers need to live. 
 Pearl Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business organization, said that as job creation slowed down markedly on the Island -- a net gain of just 18,400 jobs in the 2000-2004 period, compared with 108,800 in the four years before that -- the average yearly salary for new jobs has plunged to just $23,995, from $40,977 in the earlier period. 
 The boom of the late 1990's created many high-wage technology jobs, Dr. Kamer noted. But since the tech bubble burst in 2000, she said, most new jobs have been in lower-paying industries like hotels and restaurants, tourism and health care that often pay at or near the minimum wage.
 ''If you have a family, you can't exist on a minimum-wage job,'' she said. ''So as part of our economic development efforts on Long Island, we have to increase the growth of high-wage jobs, such as those in the business and professional services fields. We are getting some of them. We just need more.''
 Gary Huth, a labor market analyst for the New York State Department of Labor, said that of the 12,300 jobs created on Long Island in the 12 months ended Aug. 31, one-third were in business and professional services. That includes some accountants, lawyers and managers of companies, he said, but also a variety of clerical and temporary jobs. On average, he said, they paid about $45,000 a year. 
 The next-largest category was health care, with 3,500 new jobs in that 12-month period averaging $41,600 a year, Mr. Huth said. The mix also included some jobs in blue-collar fields, in financial services and in restaurants and hotels. But relatively few of the new jobs -- just 600 -- were in the formerly fast-growing retail sector; the pay for those jobs averaged $28,300 a year.
 ''That's not so terrible, but it's not great,'' he said.
 Still, that kind of money doesn't go far on Long Island, where, by the reckoning of Mitchell Pally, the Long Island Association's vice president for government affairs, the overall cost of living is one-third higher than in the rest of New York State.
 You don't have to tell that to Gina M. DeGregorio, 26, director of public relations for the Morey Organization. She said high prices are a big reason she finds it difficult to save money on her $50,000 salary, even though she shares an Oceanside apartment with two friends. The gas for her 45-minute commute alone eats up $50 or more a week, she said, and after her regular bills and her student-loan payment, there's not much left. ''I do freelance public relations work on the side to make extra money,'' Miss DeGregorio said. ''Without it, I'd be living paycheck to paycheck.''
 Until last month, Colleen M. Murphy, 25, was working as a graphic designer and photographer at a Huntington shoe store. But the $31,000 salary with no benefits was not enough for her to afford to move out of her parents' house in Farmingdale. She is now looking on Long Island for another job in the same field.
 The rising cost of a Manhattan commute finally got to Theresa L. Romeo, 24, of Bellmore. After two years in the corporate offices of an apparel manufacturer, she said, her pay had risen only to $32,000 -- she started at $28,000 -- while her Long Island Rail Road ticket cost $220 a month, and breakfast and lunch in Manhattan came to $15 to $20 a day. 
 ''I had a lot of problems paying all of my bills,'' she said. Now she works as an assistant manager at a Huntington clothing store, but says she still can't put money aside.
 The labor market has been no friend to young people like her. According to Gregory E. DeFreitas, a professor of economics and director of the labor studies program at Hofstra University in Hempstead, the low 4 percent official unemployment rate on Long Island conceals an unusually large number of young people here who have only part-time jobs. 
 Dr. DeFreitas said 40 percent of employed Long Islanders age 20 to 24 have only part-time work -- less than 35 hours a week -- compared with 36 percent nationally. Among employed teenagers, he said, 85 percent on the Island work only part time, compared with 79 percent nationally.
 Dr. DeFreitas noted that a study last year by the Fiscal Policy Institute in Manhattan found that 96,000 workers on Long Island, about 8 percent of the work force, make less than $7 an hour. The national minimum wage has been $5.15 an hour since 1997, but New York State raised its minimum last year to $6.
 Matthew D. Silver, president of Ultimate Class Limousine in Hicksville, said he had three people on his payroll who earn the minimum wage; they clean the 35 cars, buses and vans. Two are part-timers -- a mother of three with another job and a college student who attends classes during the day -- and the third is a 59-year-old man who works there full time. 
 The man, who would give only his first name, Don, said he is single and lives in a $600-a-month apartment in Bethpage. After paying his rent and phone and cable bills, he said, he has about $200 a month to live on.
 Don said he worked in the shipping business for nearly 20 years, but could not find another job in the field after he was laid off in 2002. After a year out of work, he took the car-cleaning job to carry him until he can retire on Social Security at 62. 
 ''I'm happy with what I'm doing now,'' he said. ''My head is above water, and my age is against me. But this job is fine. I have no problem.''
 Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, said the Island needed to counter the steady erosion of well-paid manufacturing jobs with more than just minimum-wage service jobs. ''We can't have an economy that is basically taking in its own laundry,'' he said. ''We need jobs that create wealth and not just recirculate it.''
 He noted the effort by Stony Brook University to build a nanotechnology industrial park on the 246-acre former Gyrodyne property west of its campus. 
 The university has had success with other business-incubator projects, and other colleges on the Island have followed suit, nurturing new companies in biological science, agriculture, software, wireless communications and other fields.
 Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the state-sponsored Empire State Development Corporation, said these incubators had the potential to create many well-paid jobs. ''Long Island has a strong high-tech industry that is working with world-class institutions,'' he said. ''We have the basic giants of the industry on Long Island.'' 
 Even the best technology jobs, though, rarely pay enough to catch up with Long Island housing prices. Noting that the median home price in Nassau County reached $490,000 in July and $400,000 in Suffolk, Dr. Kamer of the Long Island Association did the grim math. ''If you use the rule of thumb that says you shouldn't pay more than 2.5 times your annual income for a home,'' she said, ''in order to afford a median-priced home in Nassau you would need a household income of about $196,000. And for a median-priced house in Suffolk, you would need $160,000 in income. Only about 10 percent of the population living on Long Island meets those income guidelines.''
 When young people like Ms. Murphy and Ms. Romeo find themselves caught between low pay, the high prices for houses and the scarcity of rental housing, Mr. Pally said, many simply move away from the Island. Dr. Kamer estimated that 26,000 people between the ages of 25 and 34 left Long Island between 2000 and 2003, many because of housing frustrations.
 The only answer, Mr. Pally said, is to allow construction of many more studio and one-bedroom apartments, town houses and condominiums across the Island, which would require major changes in zoning laws -- and political attitudes -- in most towns.
 For all the problems, the Island's economy in some ways is in better shape now than it was when it was heavily dependent on the military aerospace industry, according to Thomas Conoscenti, an economist in Nesconset. In those days, the loss of a single contract meant thousands of layoffs.
 ''We went from a defense economy to manufacturing, and then to a service economy,'' Dr. Conoscenti said. ''Service sector economies are not as susceptible to change in employment due to the business cycle. You still need waitresses to serve tables.''
 Lori Farley-Toth, the area vice president of Adecco, the nation's largest employment service, said she believes the Island is starting to create better jobs again. 
 ''In 2004 we saw a dramatic improvement, with more and more opportunities,'' said Mrs. Farley-Toth, whose office is in Melville. ''Salaries are coming up because of old-fashioned competition. There has been strong incremental growth.''
 ''We fully expect at this time next year to be in the throes of a full-blown talent crunch across the board,'' she added.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gina DeGregorio finds it hard to save money on her salary. Her boss, John Caracciolo, found it hard to fill a management job. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (70%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); TRENDS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%) Labor; Unemployment; Part-Time Employment; Wages and Salaries; Economic Conditions and Trends; Cost of Living

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: Stewart Ain

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) Long Island (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



580 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: ECONOMY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Imagine 20 Years of This 

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The effect that any single hurricane has on the broad United States economy is minor. Even Katrina, which sent gas prices soaring, has done little to alter the national economy's course. 
Outside the Gulf Coast, business and households have continued spending money at roughly the same rate as they were before.
 But if major storms hit the Atlantic and gulf coasts with some frequency, the economic equation changes. Suddenly, an infrastructure that was built with one reality in mind is facing a different one. Uncertainty will increase; efficiency will suffer. ''We're going to have to make some difficult choices,'' said Ross C. DeVol, director of regional economics at the Milken Institute. ''You can't build everything to withstand a category-five hurricane.''
Katrina alone caused estimated damages of $200 billion, and some conservative House Republicans have suggested reducing government spending by $500 billion over 10 years to pay for that one storm's overall costs. A series of large storms would increase the budget deficit and start a new debate over whether to raise taxes, cut programs, or both. 
 Whatever the outcome of that debate, the result would almost certainly steal resources that might be invested in infrastructure improvements around the country, or in exploring new technologies. That could cut productivity growth and slow the rise of living standards. DAVID LEONHARDT


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Michael Nagle/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); WEATHER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; United States Economy; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Atlantic Ocean; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



581 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Go Ahead and Drive Less, if You Can

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
FOR three straight weeks, Americans have been buying less gasoline than they did a year ago. Consumption is dropping at a rate not seen since drivers were waiting in gas lines back in the early 1980's. And people are turning to mass transit in record numbers in some cities. 
 ''Normally we'd expect to see a decline of about 400,000 barrels a day from August to September just for seasonal reasons, as people stop taking vacations,'' said Doug MacIntyre, a senior oil market analyst for the Energy Information Administration.
But Americans consumed an average of 8.8 million barrels of gas a day for the week ending Sept. 16, down from 9.4 million the week before Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans and roughly 200,000 fewer barrels per day than in mid-September last year. 
 ''That sort of gives an indication of the price impact,'' Mr. MacIntyre said. ''It's a big decline.''
 There are any number of reasons -- from hurricanes to Middle East instability to China's growing thirst for oil -- to be pessimistic that the era of $1.50-a-gallon gasoline will ever return. 
 So how much can Americans cut back on their driving? How much time behind the wheel is discretionary?
 Consider that the average American household used its cars and trucks for 496 shopping trips in 2001, according to an exhaustive survey of 160,000 Americans conducted by the Transportation Department. Trips were 7.02 miles in length, on average, for a total of 3,482 miles per household per year. That much driving could almost get you from New York to Juneau, Alaska, give or take a few hundred miles. 
 That's a lot farther than in 1990, when the average household's shopping trips could only get you from New York to Denver. Part of the difference stems from the fact that the length of an average shopping trip was 5.1 miles in 1990. Blame greater suburban sprawl for longer trips these days. 
 But the average household also took just 341 shopping trips in 1990, back in a pre-latte era when there were just a few dozen Starbucks stores and coffee was something to be brewed at home. People are now taking more shopping trips than trips to and from work. 
 Of course, determining how driving miles are put to use through surveys is hardly an exact science. ''Not only is it difficult, it's getting more difficult, because more people are blending work and pleasure,'' said Doug Hecox, a spokesman for the Federal Highway Administration. 
 What seems clear is that American consumers have been unnerved by the record-breaking gasoline prices this year. The big gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles that have been a Detroit favorite have landed on dealer lots with a resounding thud, with steep discounting required to keep them selling. 
 Some people are considering carpooling, while others are turning to public transportation, and in record numbers in some cities, according to statistics the American Public Transportation Association will release tomorrow. 
 The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority recorded the busiest month ever for its Metro system in June, and ridership was up 10 percent for the year through August, compared with a normal annual growth rate of 2 percent. 
 In Texas, traffic on the Trinity Railway Express, which links Dallas to Fort Worth, was up 16.4 percent for the first four weekdays of September compared with the same period a year earlier. St. Louis reported a 17 percent increase in mass transit ridership from April to June, compared with a year ago. In San Francisco, traffic on the Bay Area Rapid Transit system was up almost 4 percent during the first two weeks of September, compared with a year ago, and Sept. 15 was the busiest day for the system in a year.
 ''These are probably the highest growth levels in four decades,'' said William W. Millar, the president of the public transportation association, a nonprofit group representing transit authorities across the country. 
 Drivers can only bend so far, however.
 ''People can't change where they live,'' said Richard Porter, an economics professor at the University of Michigan. ''They can't change where they work, and there aren't any clear substitutes to gas. You can't run your car on much else. It's not like switching from oranges to grapefruits.''
 But people can squeeze some savings here and there, even if less shopping is out of the question. Consider other areas of driving inflation. The average household is making 47 trips to doctors and dentists each year, up from 18 in 1990, according to the highway administration's surveys. The number of trips to school or church has risen to 105 per year from 89. Driving vacations have quadrupled from two to eight. 
 About the only thing Americans have been cutting back on is visiting friends and relatives, with such trips down to 129 per year from 149 in 1990. At 14.89 miles per visit on average, cutting out an additional 20 would save 300 more miles per year. Don't worry, your mother-in-law won't miss you.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Doreen Spooner/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); WEATHER (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); HURRICANES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (64%); SUBURBS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Transit Systems; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



582 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: An Uprooted Underclass, Under the Microscope 

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
UNEXPECTEDLY, the country is embarking on a broad experiment: Will moving the poor out of New Orleans help them rise? 
 For years, academics and poverty researchers have debated whether the poorest Americans would improve their situation if they were simply relocated from the worst neighborhoods and housing projects -- where many live in concentrated numbers -- and dispersed among middle-class neighborhoods to absorb a different set of cultural norms.
The discussion was largely theoretical, because an extensive resettling of the poor would have been expensive, intrusive and racially charged -- in short, politically impossible.
 Then, New Orleans was devastated. Now the very poor make up a sizable portion of the nearly half a million evacuees spread across hundreds of towns and cities, ready to be recipients of a large, focused package of federal and state aid. 
 For social scientists, the recovery effort is a chance to collect important evidence on whether relocating the poor is effective policy.
 ''We need to be studying what happens now very closely,'' said Douglas Besharov, a poverty researcher at the American Enterprise Institute. ''We should hire anthropologists and careful social scientists and see if we can find what really makes a difference.''
 Before the hurricane, the poor of New Orleans had little mobility. Many evacuees said they had never left the state before. They didn't have the cash; they didn't know anyone outside of the city; and government programs that helped them get by, like housing, kept them rooted. 
 The poor often live in public housing, which can anchor a family to a specific place. Or they may rely on federal Section 8 housing subsidies, which can make it cumbersome to relocate. Once a family has waited years to receive housing (and the waiting is commonly years long), they have an enormous incentive to stay put. 
 The Bush administration believes that social-welfare programs often hold the poor hostage to their communities, and is constructing the federal aid to the evacuees of New Orleans to make it as portable and flexible as possible.
 During his recent speech in Louisiana, for example, President Bush promised $5,000 relocation allowances that the dispossessed could spend on everything from job retraining to child care. That money could be used anywhere, from Baton Rouge to Chicago.
 On Friday, the government said it would give rental vouchers to displaced families. The vouchers, which will cover up to 100 percent of local market rents, can be used in any part of the country for up to 18 months. 
 If the poor really do have a chance to start over, how will they do? Two relatively small-scale relocation programs give an indication that they'll do fine, as long as they don't end up together. 
 The first experiment, known as Gautreaux, occurred as part of a court-ordered settlement of a racial discrimination lawsuit against the Chicago Housing Authority. From 1976 to 1998, the housing authority moved nearly 25,000 poor African-Americans from crumbling public housing to subsidized housing in suburbs where no more than 30 percent of the population was African-American. 
 Studies showed that heads of households were more likely to be employed than their inner-city counterparts, although they still earned poverty-level wages and their families received little in the way of extra counseling or social services. Their children did even better. They were much more likely than their inner-city peers to graduate from high school, go to college and get good jobs.
 In the 1990's, the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development tried another program, Moving to Opportunity, which gave vouchers to thousands of residents in poor city neighborhoods. The participants were required to move to neighborhoods with lower poverty levels -- which they did. Nevertheless, they tended to choose to live near one another. So far, studies have found no statistically significant changes in employment rates for adults or educational attainment for their children. 
 The lesson of the two programs, said James E. Rosenbaum, a sociology professor at Northwestern and the leading researcher on the Gautreaux program, is that unless some limits are placed on housing vouchers, the poor will band together elsewhere and simply recreate mini-enclaves with the same problems of crime, single motherhood and low educational expectations. 
 William Julius Wilson, a Harvard professor who has studied urban pathologies, added, ''On the basis of the scientific evidence, we know it would really be better if we could scatter people.'' 
 One current federal policy, however, could actually concentrate the poor evacuees of New Orleans. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has purchased thousands of trailers, which may be used for temporary encampments.
 Politicians of all stripes have already condemned this plan, fearing that the trailer camps will become ''FEMA ghettos,'' economically and socially isolated from communities and jobs. 
 Of course, the New Orleans diaspora of the poor may pose other challenges -- like political disempowerment. And while the poor may become less visible, their problems don't disappear, said Margaret Simms, of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research group based in Washington.
 ''Circumstances that make people poor -- like low education and chronic disabilities -- don't disappear when you move them someplace else,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); LITIGATION (82%); TRENDS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); FAMILY (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HURRICANES (75%); DISPLACED PERSONS (75%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RACE & RACISM (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); WEATHER (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends; Social Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Leslie Kaufman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



583 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: SATURATION POINT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Imagine 20 Years of This

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
There was a time when the cloud as an icon of destruction was shaped like a mushroom.
 And a time when the cloud as a portent of fleeing populations gave off the buzz of locusts.
And a time when the cloud that symbolized unexpected death was the ashen plume shooting out of twin towers pancaking down.
 Now the cloud we track across our television screens as a harbinger of all those things is touched with the ancient and divine: a vast, swirling eye. An unblinking thing that could have floated off an Egyptian cartouche, a Huichol ornament or the back of a dollar bill. 
 In a sense, we are back to a more innocent age. The dark eyes whirling ever closer are ''natural'' disasters, though they pack the force of thousands of Hiroshimas.
 And if science is correct, we will be repeatedly reminded what ''a force of nature'' implies. Meteorologists argue that we have begun a new era of Atlantic storms pumped up by hot gulf waters, a cycle that oscillates in decades. The devastating hurricanes of the 1960's like Betsy and Camille were followed by a lull from 1970 to 1995 as cooler waters stifled the wrath of adolescent tropical storms. Now the streams of warm water that encourage rapid evaporation and spiraling winds are back.
 If these are just the first dark puffs of a new kind of summer weather that will prevail for the next 20 years, can we possibly be ready for what is to follow? [The Issues Ahead, Page 4.]
 Last year, four horsemen galloped over Florida in quick succession: Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne. Already this season, the Gulf of Mexico has seen one major hurricane, Rita, sweep in on the veil of another, Katrina.
 As a consequence, parts of New Orleans and stretches of the Mississippi coast are nearly uninhabited, and likely to stay that way for months. In Texas, Houston, Galveston and Port Arthur have emptied, at least temporarily. The populations of coastal cities have been scattered in a great arc, some trapped on highways a few miles inland, some in shelters as far away as Massachusetts and California.
 The absurdity is that a dangerous squall can now be tracked almost from its birth off the coast of Africa, but its victims still cannot get out of its way. Despite our amazing ability to foretell the meteorological future, greed and sloth may have overpowered most sane efforts to plan for it. 
 Highways have clotted as families flee, and some of those without cars end up with nowhere to go but their rooftops. Evacuation plans for hospitals and nursing homes have been washed away by worst-case scenarios that no one envisioned -- buildings marooned by deep water and beset by gunfire.
 Encouraged by federal flood insurance, islands whose very existence is ephemeral have been lined with vacation homes. Low-lying urban neighborhoods with their asphalt toes resting in swamps have been built below levees too fragile to hold. Hurricane-resistant houses have been designed, but their squat forms have proven unpopular with customers craving ocean vistas. 
 Marshes that once absorbed storms have been allowed to die off and sink, leaving stretches of open water that can be flung shoreward by storm surges. Pipelines designed to flex have snapped -- Katrina's damage may include 10 major spills.
 Even the economy, unable to flee, has become a victim. The nation's refineries have been concentrated in the threatened hurricane belt. Gas-guzzlers and rising prices are beating into the heads of drivers the nature of the laws of supply and demand. Insurance companies have been rocked, struggling airlines have gasped at their jet fuel bills. The damage so far already could reach $200 billion. 
 Here is a look at six crucial questions we face:


GRAPHIC: Photos: On the Road -- The automobile exodus, like this one on Interstate 45 in The Woodlands, Tex., last week before Hurricane Rita struck, could be a common sight in the coming decades. (Photos by Ralph Lauer/Fort Worth Star-Telegram, via Associated Press
 below, NOAA, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); METEOROLOGY (88%); SHOOTINGS (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DISASTER PLANNING (74%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (67%); FLOOD INSURANCE (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); CITY LIFE (61%); CITIES (61%); NURSING HOMES (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Weather; Global Warming; Forecasts

PERSON: Donald G Jr Mcneil

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (67%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (73%) Atlantic Ocean

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



584 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: The Education Gap

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Especially in these days after Katrina, everybody laments poverty and inequality. But what are you doing about it? For example, let's say you work at a university or a college. You are a cog in the one of the great inequality producing machines this country has known. What are you doing to change that?
 As you doubtless know, as the information age matures, a new sort of stratification is setting in, between those with higher education and those without. College graduates earn nearly twice as much as high school graduates, and people with professional degrees earn nearly twice as much as those with college degrees. 
 But worse, this economic stratification is translating into social stratification. Only 28 percent of American adults have a college degree, but most of us in this group find ourselves in workplaces in social milieus where almost everybody has been to college. A social chasm is opening up between those in educated society and those in noneducated society, and you are beginning to see vast behavioral differences between the two groups. 
 For example, divorce rates for college grads are plummeting, but they are not for everyone else. The divorce rate for high school grads is now twice as high as that of college grads.
 There are other behavior differences, large and small, which reflect the different social norms in the two classes. High school grads are twice as likely to smoke as college grads. They are much less likely to exercise. College grads are nearly twice as likely to vote. They are more than twice as likely to do voluntary work. They are much more likely to give blood. These behavioral gaps are widening.
 We once had a society stratified by bloodlines, in which the Protestant Establishment was in one class, immigrants were in another and African-Americans were in another. Now we live in a society stratified by education. In many ways this system is more fair, but as the information economy matures, we are learning it comes with its own brutal barriers to opportunity and ascent.
 In an agricultural or industrial society, you might grow up in a poor or disorganized family, but you could get a job in a factory and with some grit and determination work your way to respectability. But in an information society, college is the gateway to opportunity. Crucial life paths are set at age 18, which means family and upbringing matter more. 
 Educated parents not only pass down economic resources to their children, they pass down expectations, habits, knowledge and cognitive abilities. Pretty soon you end up with a hereditary meritocratic class that reinforces itself generation after generation. 
 You see the results in the college graduation data. In the 1970's, when the information age was young, kids from poorer, less educated families were catching up to kids from more affluent families when it came to earning college degrees. But now the gap between rich and poor is widening. Students in the poorest quarter of the population have an 8.6 percent chance of getting a college degree. Students in the top quarter have a 74.9 percent chance.
 The most damning indictment of our university system is that these poorer kids are graduating from high school in greater numbers. It's when they get to college that they begin failing and dropping out. 
 Thomas Mortenson of the Pell Institute for the Study of Opportunity in Higher Education has collected a mountain of data on growing educational inequality. As he points out, universities have done a wonderful job educating affluent kids since 1980. But they ''have done a terrible job of including those from the bottom half of the family income distribution. In this respect, higher education is now causing most of the growing inequality and strengthening class structure of the United States.''
 Part of the problem is that kids from poorer families have trouble affording higher education. But given the rising flow of aid money, financial barriers are not the main issue. A lot of it has to do with being academically prepared, psychologically prepared and culturally prepared for college. 
 I'm going to come back to this subject and write about what some colleges are doing to help these students and how most colleges are neglecting them. But let me conclude with the thought that while we have big political debates in this country about equality of results, all those on the left and right say they believe in equality of opportunity. 
 This is where America is failing most. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); CHILDREN (76%); TRENDS (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%) Education and Schools; Computers and the Internet; Colleges and Universities; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Social Conditions and Trends; Education and Schools

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



585 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Bring Back Warren Harding

BYLINE: By Frank Rich

 BODY:
THERE are no coincidences. On Monday, as L. Dennis Kozlowski was slapped with 8 to 25 years in jail for looting Tyco International of some $150 million, the feds were making their first arrest of a high-ranking member of the Bush administration. The official was David Safavian, the chief of White House federal procurement policy who once worked for Jack Abramoff, the sleazy Republican lobbyist whose disreputable client list, in another noncoincidence, included Tyco. While it's an accident of timing that Mr. Safavian was collared at his suburban Virginia home just as Mr. Kozlowski was sent to the slammer in New York, the two events could not better bracket a corrupt era worthy of the Gilded Age. 
 Ours will be remembered as the Enron era. Enron itself is a distant memory -- much like all that circa 2000 talk of a smoothly efficient C.E.O. presidency led by a Harvard M.B.A. and a former chief executive of Halliburton. But even as American business has since been purged by prosecutions and reforms, the mutant Enron version of the C.E.O. culture still rules in Washington: uninhibited cronyism, cooked books, special-favors networks, the banishment of whistle-blowers and accountability. More than ideology, this ethos has sabotaged even the best of American intentions, whether in Iraq or New Orleans. Unchecked, it promises greater disasters to come. 
As recently as 10 days ago, when he resigned before his arrest, Mr. Safavian was the man who set purchasing policy for the entire federal government, including that related to Hurricane Katrina relief. The White House might as well have appointed a contestant from ''The Apprentice.'' Before entering public service, Mr. Safavian's main claim to fame was as a lobbyist whose clients included Indian gaming interests and thuggish African regimes. Mr. Safavian now faces charges of lying and obstructing the investigation of Mr. Abramoff, the Tom DeLay-Ralph Reed-Grover Norquist pal who is being investigated by more agencies than looked into 9/11. Mr. Abramoff's greasy K Street influence-peddling network makes the Warren Harding gang, which operated out of its own infamous ''little green house on K Street,'' look like selfless stewards of the public good. 
 You know that the arrest of Mr. Safavian, one of three known Abramoff alumni to migrate into the administration, is the start of something big. Alberto Gonzales's Justice Department announced it only after Mr. Safavian had appeared in court and had been released without bail. The gambit was clearly intended to keep the story off television, and it worked. 
 It won't for long. The Enron odor emanating from Mr. Safavian is of a piece with the rest of the cronyism in the Katrina preparedness package. The handing off of FEMA from President Bush's 2000 campaign manager, Joe Allbaugh, to Mr. Allbaugh's even less qualified buddy, Michael Brown, in 2003 is now notorious. (The two men have been friends for 25 years but were not college roommates, as I wrote here last week.) But that's only the beginning: the placement of hacks like ''Brownie'' and Mr. Safavian in crucial jobs hasn't been slowed one whit by what went down on their watch in New Orleans. 
 Witness the nomination of Julie Myers as the new head of immigration and customs enforcement at the Homeland Security Department. Though the White House attacked the diplomat Joseph Wilson for nepotism because he undertook a single pro bono intelligence mission while his wife was at the C.I.A., it thought nothing of handing this huge job to a nepotistic twofer: Ms. Myers is the niece of Gen. Richard Myers and has just married the chief of staff for the homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff. Her qualifications for running an agency with more than 20,000 employees and a $4 billion budget include serving as an associate counsel under Kenneth Starr; in that job, she helped mastermind the costly and doomed prosecution of Susan McDougal, and was outwitted at every turn by the defense lawyer Mark Geragos. 
 Ms. Myers is only the latest example of Mr. Chertoff's rolling the dice with Americans' safety during his brief tenure in Homeland Security. After the bombings in London in July, he vowed to maximize his department's ''finite human and financial capital to attain the optimal state of preparedness.'' Yet the very same day, the president nominated Tracy Henke as Homeland Security's new executive director of the Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness. Ms. Henke, a John Ashcroft political appointee at the Justice Department, has since been unmasked as an Enron-style spinner of numbers. As Eric Lichtblau of The Times reported in August, it was she who ordered the highly regarded nonpartisan head of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, Lawrence Greenfeld, to delete a reference to politically embarrassing data in a government press release for a report on racial profiling. When Mr. Greenfeld complained, he was demoted.
 Imagine Ms. Henke, in her Homeland Security job, having sway over press releases about our disaster readiness. There is likely to be nothing but good news until it's too late. But if the hiring of the likes of Ms. Henke, Ms. Myers and Mr. Safavian is half of the equation in Enron governance, the other half is the punishing of veteran civil servants like Mr. Greenfeld for doing their jobs honestly. Even as it fills its ranks with Abramoff golf-junket partners, political flunkies and underemployed relatives, the administration silences those who, like Sherron Watkins at Enron, might blow the whistle on any Kozlowski or Ebbers or Rigas fleecing or betraying the taxpayers. Three weeks before Mr. Safavian's arrest, the Army Corps of Engineers demoted another procurement official, Bunnatine Greenhouse, who was a 20-year veteran in her field. Her crime was not obstructing justice but pursuing it by vehemently questioning irregularities in the awarding of some $7 billion worth of no-bid contracts in Iraq to the Halliburton subsidiary Kellogg Brown & Root. 
 Ms. Greenhouse and Mr. Greenfeld are only two of the many whistle-blowers done in by this administration so far. (Congressman Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois, lists nine on his Web site.) Even top government officials who are not whistle-blowers, merely truth-tellers, are axed. Lawrence Lindsey, the president's chief economic adviser, was pushed out after he accurately projected the cost of the Iraq war $100at billion to $200 billion. Gen. Eric Shinseki, the Army chief of staff, was shunted aside after he accurately estimated the number of required troops (''several hundred thousand'') for securing Iraq. Paul Wolfowitz and Donald Rumsfeld, who presented rosy scenarios of getting the job done with Iraqi oil income and low troop deployments, stayed on to bungle the war. 
 Their errors were compounded when the administration staffed the post-Saddam American occupation with exactly the same kind of appointees it would later bring to homeland security: the two heads of ''private sector development'' in Iraq were a former Bush fund-raiser in Connecticut and a venture capitalist who just happened to be Ari Fleischer's brother. As The Washington Post reported last year, major roles in the L. Paul Bremer regime were given to 20-somethings with no foreign service experience or knowledge of Arabic simply because they had posted their resumes at the Heritage Foundation, the same conservative think tank where Mr. Bremer had chaired a task force.
 The damage done to the mission in Iraq and homeland security alike by Enron governance is immeasurable. Administration apologists who now claim that hurricane relief will bring still more examples of innovative, C.E.O.-style governmental enterprise (Mr. Bush's ''Gulf Opportunity Zone,'' for instance) conveniently sidestep the harsh truth that such schemes are destined to be as empty and corrupt as Andrew Fastow's Raptor partnerships at Enron once they're staffed from the apparently infinite crony talent pool.
 YET it's not only the administration that is to blame, any more than it is only the executives who are at fault when a corporation rots. Culpability also belongs to the board that rubber-stamps the shenanigans -- to wit, Congress. Republicans in the Senate are led by Bill Frist, who, in the grandest Enron manner, claimed last week that it was to avoid a conflict of interest that his supposed ''blind trust'' unloaded all of his holdings in a Frist family-founded company just before its stock tanked. (Federal prosecutors and the S.E.C. are investigating.) As for the Democrats, they are nonpareil at posturing about the unstoppable nomination of John Roberts -- a conservative, to be sure, but the rare Bush nominee who seems both qualified for his job and unsullied by ethical blemishes. Yet when David Safavian was up for a job involving hundreds of billions of dollars, and much of his dubious resume was fully known, he was approved by the ranking Democrat, Joe Lieberman, and all his colleagues of both parties on the Governmental Affairs Committee.
 Which is to say that the rest of us, the individual shareholders in government who have voted in our Enron-era politicians, are responsible, too.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LOBBYING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ETHICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (76%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); BAIL (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (71%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); HURRICANES (70%) Sentences (Criminal); Lobbying and Lobbyists; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Tyco International Ltd

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); ALBERTO GONZALES (57%); FRANK RICH (50%) Frank Rich; L Dennis Kozlowski; David H Safavian; Jack Abramoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



586 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: City Received a Near-Record Number of Visitors in 2004

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
A cheap dollar, safe streets and a calendar packed with cultural events proved a compelling mix for international travelers in 2004, drawing 31 percent more foreign visitors to New York City than in the previous year, according to a report released yesterday by the city's tourism office.
 The international tourists joined an increasing number of domestic visitors who came to the city for its cultural attractions, helping boost the total number of those flocking to the city to a near-record 17.2 million, up 1.4 million from 2003.
 To the delight of tourism officials, the visitors did more than window-shop. Spending on such cultural attractions as plays, museums, concerts, art exhibits, historical sites, fairs, festivals and zoos increased to $9.1 billion from $8.2 billion. 
 Although it is harder to track spending on goods like clothes, jewelry, food and wine, Christyne L. Nicholas, president of NYC & Company, the city's tourism bureau, estimated the economic impact of visitors who participated in cultural activities at more than $15 billion. The study did not include those who did not participate in cultural activities.
 The statistics from the new report were announced yesterday in a news conference during the fifth annual CultureFest, which is meant to highlight the vast array of cultural activities available in the city. 
 Thousands of residents joined tourists in Battery Park to hear and see acts as varied as a soprano from the Metropolitan Opera and a honky-tonk band from Staten Island called the Nashville Attitude.
 There were dancers and puppets, and mambo and jazz alternated with classical violin. More than 100 cultural institutions from across the city participated.
 ''Cultural offerings have long been key to the city's tourism industry,'' Ms. Nicholas said. ''In addition to being a major economic engine, arts and culture contribute greatly to New York's quality of life.''
 Of all the people who visited the city last year, 43 percent attended a cultural event or visited a cultural venue, according to the report.
 That number was even higher for foreigners. About 70 percent of those coming from overseas -- coveted because they tend to stay longer and spend more liberally -- said they were going to take part in some cultural activity.
 These ''cultural visitors,'' as the bureau classifies them, rose by 1 million from 2003 to a total of 4.2 million in 2004.
 The average foreign visitor stayed seven nights in the city, spending $98 a day, according to the report. More than a third had never been to New York City before, and the vast majority, 92 percent, said their favorite activity was shopping.
 That separates foreigners from domestic visitors, who listed going to a concert, a play or dancing as their No. 1 activity, followed closely by dining.
 Nearly half of domestic tourism comes from day-trippers from neighboring states. For those who do spend the night, the average length of stay was just under three days.
 However, they reported spending $190 a day, about twice what foreigners reported spending.
 While last year's tourism numbers are a dramatic rise from the year before, when 15.8 million people visited the city, they have yet to equal the figures from 2001.
 That year, driven in part by a desire to show solidarity after the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, a record 17.5 million tourists visited the city.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kinga Stala, center, of Historic Richmond Town, on Staten Island, processing flax with Felicity Beil and Jeffrey Cavorley at CultureFest. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (91%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (89%); DANCE (86%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); TOURISM (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (74%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); COUNTRY MUSIC (64%); DANCERS (64%); OPERA (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



587 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 791 words

PERSON: Serge Lang

HEADLINE: Serge Lang, 78, a Gadfly And Mathematical Theorist

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG and WARREN LEARY

 BODY:
Serge Lang, a leading mathematical theorist who became better known for his academic jousts with nonmathematicians on social and political issues than for his work in geometry and the properties of numbers, died Sept. 12 in Berkeley, Calif. He was 78.
 The Yale University mathematics department, where Dr. Lang taught for more than 30 years before retiring last year, announced the death but gave no cause. 
Throughout his life, Dr. Lang railed against inaccuracy and imprecision and felt that the scientific establishment unfairly suppressed dissident ideas. 
 Beginning around 1977, he adopted a more activist approach, writing letters and articles -- sometimes even buying newspaper advertisements -- to challenge research that he considered unscrupulous or sloppy. He would pull together his writings and add news articles, Congressional testimony and other documents into what he called files and mail the compiled documents to scientists, journalists and government officials.
 ''He just thought by presenting everyone all of the primary documents, everyone else would be able to see what he saw,'' said Kenneth A. Ribet, a professor of mathematics at the University of California, Berkeley. ''It was a very effective tool.''
 Edward G. Dunne of the American Mathematical Society said: ''Lang was always meticulous in his documentation. These things multiplied. People would be receiving 25-, 35-, 100-page documents from Lang.'' 
 One focus of Dr. Lang's ire was the Harvard political scientist Samuel P. Huntington. Dr. Lang mounted a one-man campaign against Dr. Huntington's nomination to the National Academy of Sciences in 1986, dismissing Dr. Huntington's use of mathematical equations to relate factors like economic development and political instability as ''pseudoscience'' and ''nonsense'' -- ''a type of language which gives the illusion of science without any of its substance.''
 Dr. Lang also challenged Dr. Huntington's description of apartheid in South Africa in the 1960's as a ''satisfied society.''
 Dr. Huntington, who said the math was not meant to be rigorous but rather a ''shorthand'' of his arguments, twice failed to win election to the academy.
 Controversially, beginning in the mid-1990's, Dr. Lang sided with skeptics who doubted that AIDS was caused by human immunodeficiency virus, arguing that the scientific evidence connecting them was weak and faulty. He criticized the denial of research money to Peter Duesberg, a skeptic on the H.I.V.-AIDS link.
 He was never convinced otherwise. A week before his death, he mailed out his latest file, a dozen pages of letters and e-mail messages about two papers he had written about the AIDS debate that had been rejected by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 
 Dr. Lang also threw in a whimsical document, ''The Three Laws of Sociodynamics,'' which states, among other things, that ''the power structure does what they want, when they want; then they try to find reasons to justify it.''
 Dr. Lang started his career as one of the nation's leading thinkers in fundamental mathematics, using aspects of geometry to study the properties of numbers, and evolved into a gifted but challenging teacher. 
 Decades of students discovered that if they did not pay attention in class, Dr. Lang would throw chalk. ''He would rant and rave in front of his students,'' Dr. Ribet said. ''He would say, 'Our two aims are truth and clarity, and to achieve these I will shout in class.'''
 He was a prolific author, having written more than 40 mathematics textbooks and research monographs and well over 100 research articles. 
 Born in Paris in 1927, Serge Lang moved to California with his family when he was a teenager. 
 He graduated from the California Institute of Technology in 1946 and received a Ph.D. in mathematics from Princeton in 1951. He taught at the University of Chicago before becoming a professor at Columbia in 1955. 
 Dr. Lang resigned his Columbia professorship in 1971 because of the university's handling of antiwar protesters. 
 He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1985 and was a member of the American Mathematical Society, but forcefully challenged both bodies at times over the election of new members and other issues. 
 He resigned from the mathematical society in 1996, because the society's journal had refused to publish an article he wrote about AIDS.
 ''He described himself as a congenital troublemaker,'' said Paul Vojta of the University of California, Berkeley, who had been a postdoctoral student at Yale under Dr. Lang. 
 Dr. Lang's research focused on number theory and algebraic geometry. He won the Frank Nelson Cole Prize in 1960 from the American Mathematical Society for his insights on algebra.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Serge Lang in 1982. (Photo by Yale University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATHEMATICS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); WRITERS (70%); TESTIMONY (69%); VIRUSES (69%); AIDS & HIV (68%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (68%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



588 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: STORM AND CRISIS

 BODY:

THE OIL INDUSTRY -- The storm damaged oil refineries, but it did not cause the widespread destruction of the energy infrastructure that some had feared. PAGE 34

EXPLOSION INVESTIGATED -- As investigators look into the fire on an evacuation bus that killed 24, details are emerging about the vehicle and the company that operated it. PAGE 34

RETURNING TO NEW ORLEANS -- Business owners can return to parts of New Orleans as soon as Monday, Mayor C. Ray Nagin said, resuming his plan to revive the city. PAGE 34

THE PRESIDENT -- President Bush visited command centers, asking questions and thanking workers, but had few decisions to make. REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK, PAGE 33

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (85%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



589 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE OIL INDUSTRY; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Refineries Escape Major Damage, but Gas Prices May Still Rise

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO and VIKAS BAJAJ; Simon Romero reported from Texas City, Tex., for this article, and Vikas Bajaj from New York. Joseph B. Treaster contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: TEXAS CITY, Tex., Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Hurricane Rita caused some damage to oil refineries near the Texas-Louisiana border and raised the prospect of gasoline shortages and higher prices during the arduous process of restarting refineries all along the Gulf Coast. But it did not cause the widespread destruction of the energy infrastructure that some had feared.
 On the edge of this workaday city of refineries and modest ranch houses near Galveston, a flare burned silently from a tower at the large B.P. refinery on Saturday afternoon, evidence that it was largely unscathed.
 Up and down the energy corridor between Galveston and Houston, industry officials said refining locations had managed to avoid extensive damage from the hurricane, which made landfall to the east, near the Louisiana border. 
 Refineries sat waiting for workers to return to assess their conditions. In Texas City, there were no signs of wind damage or flooding at any refining installations.
 Egrets gathered in the marshes in the shadow of refineries and petrochemical complexes owned by energy giants like Valero, B.P., Marathon-Ashland and Praxair. A toppled sign from a Phillips 66 gas station was the only indication that a hurricane's edge had passed through.
 The situation was less sanguine in and near Port Arthur, Tex., and Lake Charles, La., near the Texas-Louisiana border, where officials said they expected refineries and industrial plants to be out of service longer because of heavy wind damage, power failures and scattered flooding.
 Depending on how much of the nation's already stretched refining capacity is affected and for how long, that could cause shortages of gasoline and other fuels and push up retail prices again.
 ''It looks like we may have dodged some of the bullet in terms of the impact,'' said John Felmy, chief economist for the American Petroleum Institute. ''It certainly is better than if it had hit some of the bigger refining centers.''
 Chuck Dunlap, who rode out the storm with 50 others at Pasadena Refining Systems, just outside Houston, said that at first glance, his plant and other facilities in the area appeared to have sustained limited damage. But even so, it will take a few days for his plant, which normally processes about 100,000 barrels of crude oil a day, to return to full speed.
 ''We are actually walking through the plant and doing a more detailed inspection,'' said Mr. Dunlap, the refinery's president. ''We won't be at full operations till midweek.''
 As the hurricane approached Texas on Friday, Galveston and Houston seemed directly in its path, and had the storm plowed into those cities, laden with petroleum tank farms, refineries and natural gas processing plants, insurance experts feared that losses could have run to $30 billion. But initial estimates put insured damage at $5 billion or less.
 With hurricane winds extending 85 miles from the center of the storm, Galveston and Houston got heavy rain and strong gusts of more than 75 miles an hour, and they sustained scattered damage. Royal Dutch Shell and Valero Energy said their Houston-area plants would be restarted as workers returned and power was fully restored.
 Companies shut down 16 refineries that make up about 23 percent of the nation's capacity in the days before Hurricane Rita struck. Less than half of the facilities that closed were in or near Port Arthur or Lake Charles.
 Valero and Shell both said the wind knocked down cooling towers and power lines at their Port Arthur refineries, but they reported minimal damage from flooding. Valero said it would take two weeks to a month to complete repairs and restart the plant. 
 Hurricane-damage experts said the destruction may have been limited because as the storm churned inland, the refineries were on its west side, where wind speeds are lower, according to Dr. Jayanta Guin, vice president for research at AIR Worldwide, a Boston firm that tracks hurricanes and the damage they inflict.
 Industry officials warned that the lack of obvious damage should not be read as assurance that things will quickly return to normal. Offshore oil platforms still need to be inspected, and restarting refineries, especially the kind of hulking operations that are common in the region, can take several days, even weeks. 
 During that period, gasoline supplies may start to run short in much of the eastern half of the country, which gets most of its fuel from the Gulf Coast via pipelines. The largest of these, owned by Colonial Pipeline, was operating at about half its usual volume on Saturday because it had lost power at pumping stations. 
 Retail gasoline prices rose to more than $3 a gallon after Hurricane Katrina. Regular unleaded gas sold for an average of $2.748 a gallon on Saturday, down from $2.755 on Friday, according to the AAA.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Valero refinery in Port Arthur, Tex., sustained some hurricane damage. But the widespread destruction that had been feared did not occur. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (79%); POWER FAILURES (79%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (70%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Floods; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Refineries; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Shortages

COMPANY: MARATHON PETROLEUM CORP (55%)

TICKER: MPC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%)

PERSON: Simon Romero; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Texas; Port Arthur (Tex); Louisiana; Lake Charles (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



590 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: HURRICANE SLAMS INTO GULF COAST; FLOODING SPREADS 

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN and JERE LONGMAN; Shaila Dewan reported from Beaumont, Tex., for this article, and Jere Longman from Houma, La. Reporting was contributed by Ralph Blumenthal in Houston, Sewell Chan in Baton Rouge, La., Thom Shanker in Washington, Timothy Williams in Beaumont, William Yardley in Lake Charles, La., and Joseph B. Treaster in New York.

DATELINE: BEAUMONT, Tex., Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Hurricane Rita, with an eye 20 miles wide and wind gusts of almost 150 miles per hour, slammed into the Gulf Coast before dawn on Saturday, causing far less damage than officials had feared but raising new concerns as its torrential rain and storm surges caused widespread flooding across much of the region.
 By late Saturday, only one death had been attributed to the storm or its remnants; one person was killed in Mississippi when a tornado hit a mobile home, The Associated Press reported. On Friday, 24 residents of a living center for the elderly died when the bus in which they were being evacuated caught fire.
 Officials said the storm was less deadly than Hurricane Katrina partly because of the evacuation of millions of Gulf Coast residents who had transportation away from the area and heeded warnings, mindful of the flooding, death and destruction of nearly a month ago.
 Through the day as the storm moved northward, every eye was on the rising waters. In Terrebonne Parish and Houma, south winds shoved water from the Gulf of Mexico through the low-lying lands, topping levees designed for storm drainage but unequipped for hurricane protection. 
 The high water left 15,000 residents vulnerable over an area of 820 square miles, said Don Schwab, president of Terrebonne Parish.
 More than 650 evacuees had been placed in three local shelters by early Saturday evening, with the number expected to rise significantly, Mr. Schwab said. Water rose four to five feet in the lowest areas, he said, but some evacuees said it had risen even higher.
 The National Hurricane Center in Miami said Saturday night that the storm appeared to be moving inland more quickly than had been expected. Heavy rains were still expected in its path, but forecasters had warned that the storm could stall over the Gulf Coast region, causing rainfall of up to 25 inches over days. 
 In Jefferson Parish, helicopters and boats from the Navy and the Coast Guard rescued about 500 people who were stranded in their homes around Lafitte, La., about 30 miles south of New Orleans, state officials said.
 It was the largest search-and-rescue mission that had occurred so far in Louisiana in response to Hurricane Rita. Lt. Col. Pete Schneider, a Louisiana National Guard spokesman, said soldiers were ''heavily engaged'' in missions in Vermilion Parish and were trying to make their way to parishes farther west.
 ''We still are unable to perform evacuation, search-and-rescue missions in those areas due to the high winds,'' Colonel Schneider said.
 Across Louisiana, nearly 18,000 people were in shelters. And power was out to more than 1.2 million customers in Texas and Louisiana. 
 Houston, where 2.5 million residents choked roadways for hours as they fled the approach of the storm, appeared to have been spared major damage. But Mayor Bill White and Gov. Rick Perry pleaded with residents not to return home yet, saying it was still unsafe to do so because of rain and high winds.
 Worried that a rush home would result in another nightmarish traffic jam, the Texas Department of Transportation released an unusual plan that calls for people in various sectors in and around Houston to return on different days. Those from the northwest part of the city and from communities to the Northwest were told return Sunday. Those from the southwest are supposed to return Monday, and those just from a small part of the area to the northeast are supposed to return Tuesday. 
 Hurricane Rita made landfall about 3:40 a.m. Eastern time as a Category 3 storm, which carries winds up to 130 m.p.h., with its eye passing just east of Sabine Pass, Tex., near the Texas-Louisiana border. After hitting land, the storm weakened to a Category 2 and later was downgraded to a tropical storm, which has winds of less than 75 m.p.h.
 President Bush, who was criticized for his administration's slow response to Hurricane Katrina, monitored Hurricane Rita from the United States Northern Command in Colorado Springs and other emergency command centers.
 James Gunter, the fire chief in Jasper, Tex., about 70 miles north of the coast, said in a interview with KHOU-TV early in the morning: ''We've had fires in the county that we have not been able to respond to -- won't be able to respond to, period. The entire county is without power.'' 
 Chief Gunter added, ''We can go out on the south side of our building and we can look to the south and we can see nothing less than utter devastation.''
 Early Saturday, water levels were receding in the upper and middle portions of Galveston Bay as strong winds were pushing the water southward, causing it to pile up across bayside locations of Galveston Island and Bolivar Peninsula. Forecasters said the flooding farther west along Galveston Island, on the north-facing bay shores, was expected to subside by midday.
 In New Orleans, water that topped two repaired canal levees in the Ninth Ward on Friday because of rain and wind as Hurricane Rita approached began to recede somewhat on Saturday.
 The Army Corps of Engineers said water had dropped just over a foot in the Industrial Canal by Saturday morning. Plans were being made for helicopters to drop 3,000-pound to 7,000-pound sandbags into a 25-to-30-foot gap where water still flowed into the evacuated Lower Ninth Ward, one of the city's poorest neighborhoods, which had been battered by Hurricane Katrina.
 ''We just have to get clearance with Mother Nature,'' said Mitch Frazier, a spokesman for the corps.
 The worst damage from Hurricane Rita appeared to be in southwestern Louisiana and East Texas. But the storm also sparked fires in Galveston and Houston. In Lake Charles, La., early unconfirmed reports told of heavy damage to the glass facade of the Hibernia Bank tower downtown, potential damage to casino barges on Lake Charles, and a fallen overpass on either Interstate 10 or Interstate 210, a spur to the south of town.
 Parts of Beaumont were flooded, and there were indications that water had been swept around Port Arthur's horseshoe-shape seawall. One resident of Orange, a town just to the northeast, called the courthouse to say she was climbing into her attic to escape rising water.
 Glass blew out of the J.P. Morgan/Chase Tower in downtown Houston, forcing the police to cordon off the area.
 In coastal counties and parishes, crews of workers rose in the dark early Saturday and prepared to go out at first light to assess the damage, while inland Texas counties like Jasper were still under siege by the storm. 
 ''We're in the process of going through the eye right now, so we've got a lot of rough times ahead,'' Diane Brown, the acting Jasper County Jail administrator, said after answering the telephone at the Sheriff's Office early Saturday morning.
 In Louisiana, officials from Cameron and Calcasieu Parishes huddled in the Calcasieu Parish Jail, which had been evacuated of all 1,149 inmates before the storm. About 3 a.m. Saturday, wind was rattling the roof and the windows. ''That's the sound of our lives changing forever,'' said Mike Aymond, a Calcasieu sheriff's deputy.
 But, Deputy Aymond said: ''It'd be a lot worse if New Orleans hadn't happened. People would have stayed.''
 Initial estimates by insurance experts put the damage from Hurricane Rita at $5 billion or less, far below the estimated $35 billion in damageinflicted by Hurricane Katrina nearly a month ago and the $30 billion that had been feared had Galveston and Houston taken a direct hit. 
 ''The areas of Texas and Louisiana where this came ashore was far less developed than the coastal areas of Louisiana and Mississippi where Katrina struck,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. Hurricane Rita also struck with less force.
 In Jefferson County, Tex., which includes Beaumont and Port Arthur, Carl Griffith, the county judge, estimated that only 10 percent to 15 percent of the county's 250,000 residents had stayed behind, compared with 40 percent in previous evacuations. In Cameron Parish, a low-lying area of bayous, farmland and fishing camps just south of Lake Charles, nearly all of the 9,000 residents had evacuated by late Friday. About 95 percent of the 200,000 residents in Calcasieu Parish, which includes Lake Charles, had evacuated, officials estimated.
 In Beaumont, windows blew out of the ground floor of the Entergy building, which the county was using as a shelter and staging area for first responders, causing a drop in pressure throughout the building, the tallest in downtown. As the first rescue workers left, the wind continued to shake cars and drive horizontal sheets of rain.
 The Houston police had confirmed 28 burglaries overnight and arrested 16 people, said Frank Michel, a spokesman for Mayor White. Eight of those arrested, four juveniles, three women and one man, were accused of looting a Target store. Three were arrested at a business on the city's southwest side, and one person was caught stealing beer from a convenience store, the police said.
 Residents who had not evacuated were warned by the National Hurricane Center to remain in place until Hurricane Rita moved farther inland, because traveling, especially in cars, would be dangerous. In most evacuated areas, officials said it was not safe to return, except in Friendswood, Tex., a suburb of Houston.
 On Saturday, Army helicopter crews from the First Cavalry Division, based at Fort Hood, Tex., began flying Federal Emergency Management Agency teams whose job it was to gauge damage from the hurricane.
 ''The air crews are facilitating the movement of personnel to conduct assessments of the conditions in anticipation of the relief effort,'' said Maj. Greg Thompson, the First Air Cavalry Brigade executive officer. The military also sent five mortuary teams from New Orleans to Fort Sam Houston, Tex., and five other teams were placed on alert, according to a statement from the Northern Command, which manages the Pentagon's efforts in domestic emergency and relief missions. Those teams help recover and transport the dead.
 By early Saturday, more than 50 helicopters, as well as other surveillance and transport planes, were available for damage assessment and search-and-rescue missions, according to a Northern Command statement.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Detectives Lorenza Savage and Jeremy Andras, left, checked their house yesterday in Chauvin, La., before evacuating in a Sheriff's Department vehicle. The two people at right were also evacuating. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times)
An above-ground tomb floated down a street yesterday in Delcambre, La., after the hurricane pushed water from Vermilion Bay into the city. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)(pg. 30)
Wranglers tried to guide a herd of cattle to higher ground yesterday as floodwaters rose after a levee broke in Chauvin in Southern Louisiana. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker/Getty Images)(pg. 1)Chart/Map: ''After Landfall''Hurricane Rita swung to the east before hitting the Gulf Coast, sparing Houston and Galveston, Tex., but bringing winds over 100 miles per hour and torrential rains to Port Arthur, Tex. and Lake Charles, La. About two million customers across the region were without power on Saturday morning.GalvestonA fire burned three buildings in the city's historic Strand district, but there was no major flooding and refineries appeared to have sustained only minor damage.HoustonThe city was spared a direct hit, but evacuated residents were asked to delay their return to avoid traffic jams.Port ArthurWind gusts of over 100 miles per hour tore down trees and flung debris into the streets, but the petroleum refineries appeared to have avoided catastrophic damage.Lake CharlesA container ship was blown loose from its moorings and was adrift on the lake. The city experienced the storm's heaviest rains and storm surges.Jean LafitteIn Jefferson Parish, a storm surge flooded neighborhoods that escaped much of the flooding from Katrina. Hundreds of residents were rescued from flooded homes.New OrleansStorm surges caused a breach in a recently repaired section of the Industrial Canal levee, flooding the lower Ninth Ward and St. Bernard Parish with as much as 12 feet of water, but other levees remained secure.Map of the Gulf Coast highlighting areas listed above.(Sources by NOAA
 news reports)(pg. 30)Map of the Gulf Coast highlighting Rita's path and strength: Hurricane Rita lost intensity as it made landfall near Lake Charles, La. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (94%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (79%); TORNADOES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (62%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Insurance; Rita (Storm); Floods; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; United States Armament and Defense; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Rescues 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%) Shaila Dewan; Jere Longman

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Louisiana; Texas; Houston (Tex); Mississippi; Lafitte (La)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



591 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: As Test Scores Jump, Raleigh Credits Integration by Income

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

DATELINE: RALEIGH, N.C. 

 BODY:
Over the last decade, black and Hispanic students here in Wake County have made such dramatic strides in standardized reading and math tests that it has caught the attention of education experts around the country.
 The main reason for the students' dramatic improvement, say officials and parents in the county, which includes Raleigh and its sprawling suburbs, is that the district has made a concerted effort to integrate the schools economically.
Since 2000, school officials have used income as a prime factor in assigning students to schools, with the goal of limiting the proportion of low-income students in any school to no more than 40 percent. 
 The effort is the most ambitious in the country to create economically diverse public schools, and it is the most successful, according to several independent experts. La Crosse, Wis.; St. Lucie County, Fla.; San Francisco; Cambridge, Mass.; and Charlotte-Mecklenburg, N.C., have adopted economic integration plans. 
 In Wake County, only 40 percent of black students in grades three through eight scored at grade level on state tests a decade ago. Last spring, 80 percent did. Hispanic students have made similar strides. Overall, 91 percent of students in those grades scored at grade level in the spring, up from 79 percent 10 years ago.
 School officials here have tried many tactics to improve student performance. Teachers get bonuses when their schools make significant progress in standardized tests, and the district uses sophisticated data gathering to identify, and respond to, students' weaknesses.
 Some of the strategies used in Wake County could be replicated across the country, the experts said, but they also cautioned that unusual circumstances have helped make the politically delicate task of economic integration possible here.
 The school district is countywide, which makes it far easier to combine students from the city and suburbs. The county has a 30-year history of busing students for racial integration, and many parents and students are accustomed to long bus rides to distant schools. The local economy is robust, and the district is growing rapidly. And corporate leaders and newspaper editorial pages here have firmly supported economic diversity in the schools.
 Some experts said the academic results in Wake County were particularly significant because they bolstered research that showed low-income students did best when they attended middle-class schools. 
 ''Low-income students who have an opportunity to go to middle-class schools are surrounded by peers who have bigger dreams and who are more academically engaged,'' said Richard D. Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation who has written about economic integration in schools. ''They are surrounded by parents who are more likely to be active in the school. And they are taught by teachers who more likely are highly qualified than the teachers in low-income schools.''
 To achieve a balance of low- and middle-income children in every school, the Wake County school district encourages and sometimes requires students to attend schools far from home. Suburban students are drawn to magnet schools in the city. Low-income children from the city are bused to middle-class schools in the suburbs.
 Some parents chafe at the length of their children's bus rides or at what they see as social engineering. But the test results are hard to dispute, proponents of economic integration say, as is the broad appeal of the school district, which has been growing by 5,000 students a year.
 ''What I say to parents is, 'Here is what you should hold me accountable for: at the end of that bus ride, are we providing a quality education for your child?''' Bill McNeal, the school superintendent, said.
 Asked how parents respond, Mr. McNeal said, ''They are coming back, and they are bringing their friends.''
 Not everyone supports the strategy. Some parents deeply oppose mandatory assignments to schools. Every winter, the district, using a complicated formula, develops a list of students who will be reassigned to new schools for the following academic year, and nearly every year some parents object vehemently. 
 ''Kids are bused all over creation, and they say it's for economic diversity, but really it's a proxy for race,'' said Cynthia Matson, who is white and middle class. She is the president and a founder of Assignment By Choice, an advocacy group promoting parental choice. 
 The organization wants parents to be responsible for selecting schools, and it objects to restrictions that, in certain circumstances, make it difficult for some middle-class children to get into magnet schools. 
 ''If a parent wants their kid bused, then let them make the choice,'' Mrs. Matson said. ''But don't force parents to have their kids bused across town to go to a school that they don't want to go to.''
 Supporters of economic integration contend that the county offers parents many choices but that the school district needs the discretion to assign some children to schools to avoid large concentrations of poor children. ''I believe in choice as much as anyone,'' Mr. McNeal said. ''However, I can't let choice erode our ability to provide quality programs and quality teaching.''
 The board of education had two motives when it decided to make economic integration a main element in the district's strategy: board members feared that the county's three-decade effort to integrate public schools racially would be found unconstitutional if challenged in the federal courts, and they took note of numerous studies that showed the academic benefits of economically diversifying schools.
 ''There is a lot of evidence that it's just sound educational policy, sound public policy, to try to avoid concentrations of low-achieving students,'' said John H. Gilbert, a professor emeritus at North Carolina State University in Raleigh who served for 16 years on the county school board and voted for the plan. ''They do much better and advantaged students are not hurt by it if you follow policies that avoid concentrating low-achievement students.''
 One sign of the success of the Wake County plan, Mr. Gilbert said, is that residential property values in Raleigh have remained high, as have those in the suburbs. ''The economy is really saying something about the effort in the city,'' he said. 
 About 27 percent of the county's students are low-income, a proportion that has increased slightly in recent years. While many are black and Hispanic, about 15 percent are white. Moreover, more than 40 percent of the district's black students are working- and middle-class, and not poor. 
 Wake County has used many strategies to limit the proportion of low-income students in schools to 40 percent. For example, magnet schools lure many suburban parents to the city. 
 Betty Trevino lives in Fuquay-Varina, a town in southern Wake County. Ms. Trevino drives her son, Eric, 5, to and from the Joyner Elementary School, where he goes to kindergarten. Students are taught in English and Spanish, and global themes are emphasized at the school, which is north of downtown Raleigh, more than 20 miles from the Trevinos' home. With traffic, the trip takes 45 minutes each way.
 ''I think it works,'' she said of her drive halfway across the county, ''because it's such a good school.'' 
 Many low-income children are bused to suburban schools. While some of their parents are unhappy with the length of the rides, some also said they were happy with their child's school. 
 ''I think it's ridiculous,'' LaToya Mangum said of the 55 minutes that her son Gabriel, 7, spends riding a bus to the northern reaches of Wake County, where he is in second grade. On the other hand, she said, ''So far, I do like the school.'' 
 The neighborhood school has been redefined, with complex logistics and attendance maps that can resemble madly gerrymandered Congressional districts.
 The Swift Creek Elementary School, in southwest Raleigh near the city line, draws most of its students from within two miles of the school, in both the city and suburbs. But students also come to Swift Creek from four widely scattered areas in low-income sections of south and southeastern Raleigh; some live 6 to 8 miles from the school, while others are as far as 12 miles away.
 Ela Browder lives in Cary, an affluent, sprawling suburb, but each morning she puts her 6-year-old son, Michael, on a bus for a short ride across the city line to Swift Creek.
 ''We're very happy with the school,'' Ms. Browder said. ''The children are very enriched by it. I think it's the best of both worlds.'' 
 Of the county's 139 elementary, middle and high schools, all but 22 are within the 40 percent guideline, according to the district's data. Some are only a few percentage points above the guideline, while others are significantly higher.
 The overwhelming majority of the 120,000 children in the district go either to a local school or a school of their choice, officials said. Slightly more than 85 percent of students attend a school within five miles of home and another 12 percent or so voluntarily attend magnet or year-round schools. 
 Although the figures can be calculated many ways, Mr. McNeal says about 2.5 percent -- or about 3,000 children -- are assigned to schools for economic balance or to accommodate the district's growth by filling new schools or easing overcrowding in existing ones. Most of those bused for economic diversity tend to be low-income, he said.
 A school board election will take place in October. While the board has continued to endorse economic integration, some supporters worry that that could change one day.
 ''It's not easy and it can be very contentious in the community,'' said Walter C. Sherlin, who retired two years ago as an associate superintendent. ''Is it worth doing? Look at 91 percent at or above grade level. Look at 139 schools, all of them successful. I think the answer is obvious.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill McNeal is superintendent of the Wake County school district.
 Cynthia Matson, whose group pushes parental choice, as her children, Michael, 8, and Meredith, 5, prepared to take the school bus last week. (Photographs by Jenny Warburg for The New York Times)(pg. 24)Map of North Carolina highlighting Raleigh: Diversity strategies in Raleigh-area schools are getting results. (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); SUBURBS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CHILDREN (77%); PARENTS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%) Education and Schools; Tests and Testing; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Minorities (US); Reading and Writing Skills; Mathematics; Education and Schools

PERSON: Alan Finder

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Wake County (Nc); North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



592 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Travel Magazine; THE GET; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Warsaw Weekend

BYLINE: By MAURA EGAN

 BODY:
Attention, culture vultures and aesthetes: Warsaw is calling. Drop into this gritty but groovy city for the weekend and you'll discover budding art stars, avant-garde fashion and Soviet-style buildings preserved in curatorial amber. 
All this and a buzzing night-life scene. Welcome to the next Berlin. MAURA EGAN
 city's first boutique operation (below), with all the trimmings: flat-screen televisions, DVD library, etc. The look is Art Deco, right down to the parquet floors, Tamara Lempicka prints and mother-of-pearl elevator. Some rooms contain immaculate reproductions of seccessionist furniture for a Viennese fin-de-siecle ambience, while others have a more African look, with zebra rugs and tribal masks.
6. Food and Beverage: Most locals subsist on pirogis, so the noshing options for gourmands are next to nil. Miedzy Nami (above) (Ulica Bracka 20; 011 48 22 827 94 41) offers quesadillas and lattes to demicelebs like MTV V.J.'s and weekending Brits who have flown over on Easyjet. The Poles take their drinking seriously, so for a masterfully concocted cocktail, head to Cinnamon (plac Pilsudskiego 1; 011 48 22 323 76 00) in the Metropolitan Building. The look (white leather banquettes) and the late-night antics (Hilton-style table dancing) are slightly South Beach, but it's ideal for an early-evening gin and tonic. (Photographs By Gregor Hohenberg For The New York Times)

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1. Architecture Old and New: Last year, the city received its first offering from the star architect Sir Norman Foster, the seven-story glass-and-concrete Metropolitan Building (right), a mixed-use structure that looks like an elegant spaceship in the middle of Marshal Pilsudski Square. After years of reviling yesterday's Eastern bloc monstrosities, design buffs are now enraptured by them. An example is the Palace of Culture and Science (Plac Defilad 1
011 48 22 656 60 00), an ominous Big Brother structure (above center) commissioned by Stalin as ''a gift from the Soviet people.'' Today, however, the towering Soviet worker statues (above) that dot the grounds look hip rather than haunting, while the cinema is one of those grand old popcorn palaces. Check out the Hotel Sofitel Victoria (Ulica Krolewska11
011 48 22 657 80 11), with its unabashed 1960's-Soviet-style architecture.2. Culture: ''After Communism, we first needed supermarkets,'' says Monika Fabijanska, the director of the Polish Cultural Institute in New York. ''Now we are finally getting museums.'' The city is enjoying a cultural face-lift, with the recent opening of the Warsaw Rising Museum, and the Museum of the History of the Polish Jews and the Warsaw Museum of Contemporary Art are scheduled to be completed in the next year or two. For now, modern-art fans can visit the Center for Contemporary Art at Ujazdowski Castle (below), a space for contemporary and political art that was formed in the wake of the 1980's Solidarity movement.3. Fashion: As in most Eastern European cities, H&M and Zara have conquered the high street. For less mainstream fashion, you need to go farther afield. Last year, the self-confessed fashion victim Robert Serek opened a Comme des Garcons guerrilla store (below), which recently moved from its original location, inside a pillar of the Poniatowski Bridge. Serek, who also edits the bilingual fashion magazine A4 and teaches statistics at the Warsaw School of Economics, opened his own shop, Orno (Ulica Wspolna 63
011 48 606 936 606), this month. There you can load up on Martin Margiela, Raf Simons and Undercover, as well as local talent like Anna Kuczynska and Gosia Baczynska. (The new Comme shop is right behind it.) Tucked in a courtyard, Fashion By (Ulica Bracka 20) is a sliver of a shop, stocking vintage Miu Miu shoes, Helmut Lang T-shirts and an odd pile of Day-Glo Gap tees. To get the full Eastern European tourist look, pick up a toile-pattern fanny pack (the locals refer to them as kidneys). Just across the square, you can log in serious hours of Grand Theft Auto at Play (Ulica Bracka 20), a plywood-and-drywall operation that also sells Tyvek paper clothes, Nike jackets and reworked vintage apparel.4. Art: As the Leipzig and Berlin art scenes have been picked over, international curators and collectors have migrated here to mine for lesser-known talent at cut-rate prices. The first stop on the shopping spree should be the Raster gallery and salon (Utica Hoz a 42/8
011 48 606 658 399), where the directors, Michal Kaczynski and Lukasz Gorczyca (above), look more like Green Day members than art machers in the making. Despite the gallery's grass-roots feel, the program is undeniably blue-chip: the painter Wilhelm Sasnal is already commanding five-figure prices, while the photographers Aneta Grzeszykowska and Jan Smaga are fast becoming regulars on the biennale circuit. Check out the paintings of Zbigniew Rojalski, which are being gobbled up by collectors like the Rubells. The Foksal Gallery Foundation (top) (Ulica Gorskiego 1a
011 48 22 826 50 81), hidden behind the fashionable shopping strip Nowy Swiat, works with provocative art stars like Maurizio Cattelan, Piotr Uklanski and Artur Zmijewski. Le Guern Gallery (Ulica Widok 8
011 48 22 690 69 69) highlights include young talent from Gdansk.5. A Boutique Hotel: The Hotel Rialto (Ulica Wilcza 73
 011 48 22 584 8700) is the

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (56%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: EASYJET PLC (55%)

TICKER: EZJ (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: Maura Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (64%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) POLAND (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (85%); UNITED STATES (69%) Warsaw (Poland) ; Poland

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2005



593 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: The Double

BYLINE: By DAVID KIRBY. 
David Kirby teaches English at Florida State University. His collection ''The House on Boulevard St.: New and Selected Poems'' will appear in 2007.

 BODY:
CODES, PRECEPTS, 
 BIASES, AND TABOOS
 Poems, 1973-1993.
 By Lawrence Joseph. 
 180 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. Paper, $16.

INTO IT
 By Lawrence Joseph.
 67 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $22.
You're having a cup of coffee, and bang! It's your neighbor, putting his car in the garage. Unfortunately, it's your garage and the door was down. This could be the beginning of a lawsuit -- or a poem.
 Undergraduate writing programs probably send as many students to law schools as they do to M.F.A. programs. Makes sense: whether you're writing a brief or a sonnet, you're gathering material, thinking about the order you're putting it in, adjusting tone to make the right impact. ''Inside every lawyer is the wreck of a poet,'' Clarence Darrow said, but in recent times there have been efforts to encourage the two professions to coexist peacefully. The prominent literary theorist Stanley Fish is the best-known academic to accept a joint appointment in English and law (at Duke University; he has since taken a similar position at Florida International University), and currently a number of law schools offer joint programs with English departments.
 For Lawrence Joseph, an attorney and a professor at St. John's University School of Law, the coexistence of law and poetry is not an alternative but a necessity. ''I don't know what I'd do without my Double,'' he says in one poem. Joseph is also the author of a book of nonfiction called ''Lawyerland: What Lawyers Really Talk About When They Talk About Law,'' in which he writes: ''We expect law to get to the bottom of things. But if you ask lawyers, 'Does law get to the bottom of things?' they'll laugh. Lawyers watch other lawyers steal, lawyers watch other lawyers lie all the time.'' In his new poetry collection, ''Into It,'' he even offers a lawyer joke of sorts, calling an acquaintance ''one of the most repellent human beings / I've ever known, his presence a gross and slippery / lie, a piece of chemically pure evil. A lawyer -- / although the type's not exclusive to lawyers.'' (He's right: believe it or not, there are some less-than-saintly poets out there.)
 Joseph was born in Detroit in 1948, the grandchild of Lebanese and Syrian Catholics who were among the first Arab-American immigrants to the United States, and his poems speak of his family's often trying experiences: the slights (his poem ''Sand Nigger'' is a near-iconic study of life lived between two cultures) and the violence, especially the 1967 riot that left sections of downtown gutted and the wounding of his father, a grocer, in a 1970 holdup attempt. He is the author of three earlier books of poems that are gathered in ''Codes, Precepts, Biases, and Taboos: Poems, 1973-1993'' as well as the new collection. 
 Not surprisingly, Joseph's earlier writings include a lot of who-am-I poems. One says, ''I don't know why I choose who I am: / I work and I remember, that's all.'' But as Joseph the lawyer makes his way up the ladder, Joseph the poet begins to use phrases like ''financial markets'' and ''decreased foreign investment'' as the voice in the poems expresses malaise: ''I make favors, complain, wear / a white shirt and blue suit. I'm tired.''
 If the first three books describe the slow working out of a sense of one's place in the world, Joseph's new poems are, though still self-interrogating, more assured in outlook. ''Into It'' begins with an invocation to the muse from Ovid that reads ''give me the voice / To tell the shifting story,'' and though Joseph invokes Wallace Stevens, another lawyer, in his epigraph and elsewhere, the voice that dominates ''Into It'' evokes New York after 9/11, recalling the weary, edgy voices of T. S. Eliot's personae making their way through postwar London. 
 Like Stevens and the other modernists, Eliot is a son of Ovid, charting the metamorphoses he sees with something like fascinated horror. Power is the subject of Joseph's new poems, and if power is frightening, it can be comely as well. In one poem, he writes of the beauty of a factory, how the gold of the sunlight mixes with the fire from a furnace. But when he looks at the fearsome machinery, he sees ''enormous engines / throwing great pounding cylindrical arms / back and forth, as if the machines / are playing a game, trying to see how much / momentum can be withstood before one / or the other gives way.''
 These lines recall Henry Adams's third-person description of himself prostrate before the dynamo in the Gallery of Machines at the Great Exposition of 1900, ''his historical neck broken by the sudden irruption of forces totally new.'' At the time, Adams was taken for a pessimist, though my guess is that Joseph would say he was simply being realistic. In ''History for Another Time,'' the poet looks back from the distant future to one nearer our own period, when ''the economic / cycle had peaked'' and ''Rats . . . are being considered / as the unit of currency by the new government.'' It's as though the doomsday machine in ''Dr. Strangelove'' has been triggered and is now ''impossible to untrigger,'' in the words of Peter Sellers's cackling doctor. The dynamo of our age is the computer, Joseph's poem continues, which ''contains no emblematic / power. You can no more describe the heart / of a computer than the heart of a multinational / corporation.'' The arson and the shootings in old Detroit seem pretty primitive, Wild West stuff compared with what Joseph calls the ''technocapital war'' that is going on right now, even if we only wake to it during days like 9/11 to blink wildly for a moment and then sink back into our luxuries. Like Henry Adams, Joseph seems to be writing ahead of actual events, and that makes him one of the scariest writers I know. The lawyers can't stop the doomsday machine, even if they want to. And the poets can only write about it.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Robert Buchta)Drawing (Drawing by Josh Cochran)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); LITIGATION (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (55%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%)

PERSON: David Kirby; Joseph Lawrence

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



594 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
Speaking Up Against War
Thousands of protesters gathered on the lawns south of the White House to demonstrate against the war in Iraq. The speakers included Ralph Nader, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Cindy Sheehan, who had held a protest near the president's home in Texas. PAGE 26

Deal Is Reached to Drop Debt of 18 Poor Nations
Finance ministers from around the world meeting in Washington reached agreement on a plan to wipe out as much as $55 billion in debt owed by impoverished countries. American and European officials said they were confident the plan would win approval of the World Bank's major shareholders. PAGE 4

Iran Referred to U.N. Council
Iran's showdown with the West over its nuclear plans intensified as the International Atomic Energy Agency referred it to the United Nations Security Council for violating the nonproliferation treaty. PAGE 6

Renewed Tensions in Gaza
After a night of Hamas rocket attacks, Israel moved troops to the border with the Gaza Strip and launched airstrikes this morning that hit a school and wounded 20 people. PAGE 8

Can Americans Drive Less?
In the last three weeks, Americans bought less gasoline than they did in the same period a year ago. And mass transit is up in some cities. Is this a turning point? WEEK IN REVIEW

Cheney Has Surgery
Vice President Dick Cheney underwent an elective procedure to treat aneurysms in arteries behind both knees, not just one as planned. His spokesman said the operation was a success. PAGE 14

SPECIAL TODAY

T: Travel
From the scooter-dotted streets of Sicily to the hard-to-reach mountains of Patagonia, The New York Times Style Magazine explores a kaleidoscope of fall destinations.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Chris Maddaloni/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); HAMAS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); HAMAS (56%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (92%); JESSE JACKSON (72%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



595 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Style: The Way We Drive Now: Motoring Toward A Post-Gasoline Age; Pg. 86

LENGTH: 3449 words

HEADLINE: Cars That Guzzle Grass

BYLINE: By Ted C. Fishman. 
Ted C. Fishman is the author of ''China, Inc.: How the Rise of the Next Superpower Challenges America and the World.''

 BODY:
The United States has an official vision of the automotive future. In his 2003 State of the Union address, George Bush expressed that view with a science lesson. ''A simple chemical reaction between hydrogen and oxygen generates energy, which can be used to power a car, producing only water, not exhaust fumes,'' he said, describing the catalysis in a hydrogen-fuel-cell engine. ''Our scientists and engineers will overcome obstacles to taking these cars from laboratory to showroom,'' he continued, ''so that the first car driven by a child born today could be powered by hydrogen and pollution-free.''
The time line from the Department of Energy looks like this: the first mass-market hydrogen cars start to show up by 2020; full acceptance comes sometime after 2040. That is because it takes 15 to 20 years for a new car to wear out and be replaced on the roads.
 Given that hydrogen fuel cells themselves are hardly the stuff of speculative fiction (the science behind them dates back to the mid-19th century), you can see why policy makers talk up their promise. Some experimental cars use them today -- as do spacecraft, ships, military installations and buildings that need independent and reliable sources of power. The Conde Nast Building in Times Square, for example, integrates power from hydrogen fuel cells with energy from New York's power grid. 
 Bush got the basic science right. There are several types of fuel cells, but all hydrogen-based fuel cells are characterized by the same fundamental operation: a catalyst splits hydrogen atoms into protons and electrons, which then take different paths through the fuel cell before being reunited to produce water molecules. Before they reach this end, however, the circulating electrons create a current of electricity that can be tapped. Thus fuel cells not only offer the prospect of reducing our petroleum dependency, but they also promise to reduce the environmental impact of cars, because heat and water are the only ''waste'' hydrogen fuel cells produce directly.

Miracles Still Needed
 Official optimism and the federal funds behind it -- the latest energy bill to pass Congress, according to the American Association for the Advancement of Science, authorizes $380 million for research into renewable energy, an amount that will rise to $852 million in 2009 -- also serve important political ends, of course. They counter the fears that haunt Americans at the gas station today, of penury, long wars, terrorism, disruptive natural disasters and an earth sucked dry of oil and overheated by global warming. Plenty of scientists, though, including researchers spending Department of Energy money, have their doubts about reaching the fuel-cell future, even if we are giving ourselves more than three decades to get there. Ralph Nuzzo, for one, whose labs at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign receive support from the Department of Energy to study materials, says that ''there is a lot of science and engineering that still has to be done to make the hydrogen economy possible.'' Obstacles include the devising of a hydrogen fuel cell that can be mass-produced and withstand the rigors of the road. A vast infrastructure to support such a car needs to be built as well. That involves producing hydrogen in a usable form and then somehow regularly distributing it in what is likely to be a pressurized and potentially explosive state to individual cars. In the halls of the University of Illinois, home to top academic departments in all the technical disciplines required to make the hydrogen economy a reality, some of the steps that science might have to take to create a hydrogen-run future are referred to as ''the miracles we need.''
 While hydrogen is often held up as an inexhaustible source of energy, it is not abundantly available for use in its pure form. You have to get it from hydrocarbon or water molecules -- and that takes energy. As Clark Bullard, a professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Illinois whose work focuses on energy systems, explains it: ''To make hydrogen from water you need to use electricity. By the time you do that, and compress the hydrogen and transport it to a filling station and then put it into your fuel cell and let the fuel cell turn it into electricity so it can turn the wheels of your car, that long daisy chain from electricity to electricity wastes up to 50 percent to 75 percent of the electricity you started with. And your only benefit is that you got portability.''
 Today hydrogen, which has a wide variety of industrial uses that have nothing to do with fuel cells, is produced in large quantities from natural gas through a process engineers refer to as reformation. It is possible that natural gas could supply hydrogen for cars; even the reformation itself could take place in a car. Hydrogen is easier to reform away from the car, though, so it is more likely to be isolated at factories and then shipped out or be reformed at individual filling stations. But while natural gas is a plentiful energy source, like oil it is scarce enough to be vulnerable to pinched supplies and price spikes. Coal and other nonliquid fossil fuels can be synthesized into gas for reformation, which would allow the United States to tap into its most abundant and readily accessible energy reserves. Still, whatever the original energy source, there's no escaping the fact that gas reformation produces carbon dioxide, the culprit in atmospheric warming.

It Isn't Easy Being Green. . .But Some Grasses May Make It Easier
 Despite the obstacles, even the skeptics concede that whatever steps are taken to realize the dream of a hydrogen-based future will almost certainly spur innovation and lead to a cleaner, more efficient use of the world's fuels. Every intermediate advance helps. At the NextEnergy Center in downtown Detroit, researchers are focusing on both the near and distant future. The center was set up by the Michigan State government following a study indicating that Michigan's automotive-manufacturing industries could be decimated by a widespread popular shift to cars with hybrid engines or hydrogen fuel cells. To Michael Quah, NextEnergy's chief technology officer, the United States (and Michigan's economy, presumably) must pursue a policy of energy diversity so that any of a wide variety of fuels can fill in for another whenever one is scarce.
 NextEnergy's current projects promote energy diversity across the alternative-energy landscape. These include, for example, working to help create viable markets for an array of biofuels, like biodiesels, that will run the same engines petroleum-based diesel does and that compete economically with petroleum. These fuels derive from crops that are already abundant in the United States (and can be even more plentiful if we choose to cultivate our land for power). Already, ethanol, which in the United States is refined from corn at plants across the farm belt, is a common additive to gasoline sold at the pump; its production has increased significantly in recent years, rising more than 50 percent from 2002 to 2004. Currently only about 2 percent of all liquid transportation fuels in the United States are biofuels, but the recently passed energy bill seeks to raise that percentage.
 The development of biofuels highlights one of the biggest changes under way in energy production: the influence of industries and disciplines that until now have been far from the center of the energy picture. Agriculture and biotechnology labs, for example, have been enlisted to engineer higher-yielding biofuel crops. One approach involves developing custom-made microorganisms that can digest biomatter into alcohol that can then be used to fuel cars. Another relies on creating new enzymes to help reduce the energy costs of processing corn into ethanol. New technologies are also moving the ethanol industry away from corn and into crops that require less energy and fertilizer to cultivate, like grasses, hays and trees.
 Energy derived from biomass may not necessarily find its best application inside cars; instead, it could be used to generate the electricity to produce hydrogen. If the hydrogen economy is to liberate us from fossil fuels, hydrogen will probably be isolated by subjecting water to electrolysis, which separates the liquid into hydrogen and oxygen. The great, earth-friendly advantage of electrolysis is that it depends on electricity and is indifferent to how that electricity is generated. It thus opens the door to the expanded use of biomass, not just to produce liquid fuel for vehicles but also to serve as an energy source for electric power generation.
 While the production of liquid ethanol relies on the energy-intensive farming of starch-rich corn, electric power plants could run on bamboolike grasses and other woody plants. Some varieties now in development are impressively high-yielding. At the University of Illinois, Stephen Long, a crop scientist, is exploring the properties of a tall grass called Miscanthus, a sterile hybrid (that cannot take over the landscape like kudzu) of two Japanese mountain grasses. The grass is already in use in electric power plants in Britain. Long's research reveals that the cost of Miscanthus production would be competitive with coal, but it comes with several advantages. Unlike corn, it is a perennial and so yields a generous crop each year without replanting. It is also nitrogen-conserving, meaning that it doesn't deplete nutrients from the soil. ''Miscanthus also grows in a wide variety of soils and needs little fertilizer and no pesticide,'' Long says. ''It also grows well on lands otherwise prone to erosion and flooding.'' American switch grass is another crop that may find its way to electric power plants.
 The economics of biofuels remains obscure, admittedly. So far, ethanol has been able to compete with gasoline on price only because corn growers and ethanol producers benefit from generous federal subsidies that add up to about a dollar a gallon of ethanol. And there is a long-running debate over whether ethanol takes more energy to manufacture than it produces as a fuel. If so, its clear benefits are limited to its form -- that is, a liquid that can burn in engines -- and a reduction in air pollution. Nature also places limits on how much energy crops can ultimately supply. According to the calculations of David Pimentel, a Cornell professor of ecology and agricultural sciences who once headed a Department of Energy panel on ethanol production (and who is one of the chief critics of corn-based ethanol), if all the cars in America ran on ethanol alone, the country would have to devote all but 3 percent of its landmass to growing corn for fuel. In short, liquid biofuels will at best be one component of a more diversified energy market. 
 The problem for biofuels is that they compete with petroleum, an extremely high-energy biofuel already created over millions of years by geologic activity. To Ralph Nuzzo, the problems biofuels pose arise in nearly every alternative-energy plan. ''When you look at the problem, which is how to move a person long distances at 60 miles per hour, there's an energy cost that is well understood. Gas does a very good job. It has high density, it is easily transportable and it is easy to convert into mechanical functions. Anything that displaces it will have to have those properties and be consistent with the scale of the problem.'' In the United States there are 221 million registered vehicles on the roads. Cambridge Energy Research Associates reports that the average American drives 13,000 miles a year. ''You need multiple terawatts to drive the global economy,'' Nuzzo says, ''and there is no source other than fossil fuels big enough except the sun. Every other source misses by orders of magnitude.''

Driving the Power Grid
 If hydrogen cars replace gasoline ones, and the hydrogen comes from electrolysis, the electric-power industry would have to undergo a vast expansion, one suitable to a diversified mix of biofuels and other alternatives like wind and solar power. That could radically reshape the economic landscape of the country. Rural communities might enter into the energy business, replanting lands now filled with heavily subsidized crops with high-value energy-producing ones. While fossil fuels would remain part of the energy picture, they would constitute a lesser part. And if the new electric-power-generating infrastructure used to isolate hydrogen can draw on all sorts of fuels, energy supplies in general will be less vulnerable to disruption from geopolitics, natural disasters or dwindling supplies of petroleum. ''Think of it as a web approach to energy, the way the Internet is a web approach to information,'' Michael Quah says. ''If one supply goes down in one place, the system can quickly fill the gap with supplies from another.''
 One of the most appealing prospects of automobile fuel cells is their ability to generate energy for use outside the vehicle. Cars wouldn't just consume power; they could deliver it. A hybrid can do that now. ''Electric cars produce very high-quality electricity,'' Bill Reinert, national manager of the Advanced Technology Vehicle Group at Toyota in the United States, says. ''We're already demonstrating the technology in a Prius as an emergency generator.'' A vehicle with a hydrogen fuel cell would do more than help in a pinch. It could be connected to a house and supply power that does not come from a central grid. The power required to run a midsize car on the road today is about 30 times what is needed to run an average house with every light and appliance on. Because cars typically spend only a small fraction of the day actually on the roads, they could be put to work supplying power to other things the rest of the time. At work, for example, cars in a garage could plug into and power office buildings -- for a fee, no doubt. Cars could sell energy back into the power grid too. That could be better than a break-even proposition for car owners with fuel cells, even when electricity was originally used to isolate the hydrogen: if the electricity used is consumed during off-peak hours when the price of power is low and distributed from fuel cells at peak hours when the price of power is high, there may well be money to be made.
 Amory Lovins, the chief executive of Rocky Mountain Institute in Old Snowmass, Colo., which Lovins describes as an entrepreneurial nonprofit with an emphasis on energy systems, is an advocate of this commercial-power-plants-on-wheels vision. In his view, hydrogen will come largely from the reformation of natural gas. ''If all the cars and light trucks on the road had fuel cells on them, they could make 6 to 12 times the amount of generating capacity that all the power companies now own. It doesn't take many people liking this value proposition -- that you make money generating power at your desk -- to put coal and nuclear companies out of business.'' Lovins, a MacArthur fellow, says he believes that the first two million people who can sell power from their fuel-cell-run cars will be able to pay off the entire cost of their cars with their proceeds.

Cars in Aisle 6 at Best Buy
 The drift toward electric cars that has begun with hybrids will also change how drivers travel in cars. ''Almost certainly within the next 10 years,'' Lovins says, ''major mechanical functions in cars will start to be replaced with electronic components, the way they have already been replaced in airplanes.'' Cars are packed with electronics now. An internal combustion engine joined to an alternator produces enough power to run car lights, wiper motors, stereos and other electronics. Cars already have a couple of dozen reliable low-cost computer chips controlling a wide variety of under-the-hood functions and equipment, from fuel flows and emissions controls to brakes to the diagnostic systems that light up ''check engine'' and other icons on the dashboard. Motorola, which got its start by putting radios in cars, today fills vehicles with chips. Kieran O'Sullivan, who works in the company's vehicle telematics group (which involves the use of information technology in cars), foresees the electronic controls in cars becoming ever more tightly integrated, reducing the size and weight of cars and thereby making them more energy efficient.
 Hybrids have already started the process of turning cars into giant consumer-electronics devices. In other words, they are increasingly controlled by electronic means rather than mechanical ones. Eventually the result will be cars stripped of much of the heavy metal that connects their different parts. Steering wheels may no longer be connected to steering columns, for example -- or they may be replaced altogether by video-game-like control pads in which directional controls, shifting, acceleration and braking are all manipulated by fingers and thumbs. Mitsubishi has already created a prototype car with in-wheel motors, which eliminate the need for rear axles and the transmission. As cars become more electric and more electronic, the clutch, differentials, starters and alternators could all vanish. The disappearance of heavy internal parts increases the mileage a car can get.
 Such cars could also be controlled with a precision far greater than is possible today. Combine on-board communications systems that let cars talk to one another across networks on the road with electric motors and electronic controls and on-board computing, and you have vehicles that can make intelligent decisions even when their drivers cannot. Cars could act on their own to override drivers' decisions in dangerous situations, for instance. Given the right mix of communications technology and fine-tuned controls, they could travel at high speeds along the highway only inches apart, thus mimicking the energy-saving qualities of locomotives and becoming, in effect, ad hoc public transportation systems. These are speculative visions to be sure, but technologically feasible.
 Cars can grow so automatic, Bill Reinert of Toyota says, that drivers may come to favor those that allow not just the best handling or feel for the road but also deliver the best entertainment systems, or that let a rider continue the work of the office while on the road. ''The car becomes less of an emotional decision,'' he says, ''and more of an infotainment decision.'' Reinert acknowledges that society and its drivers will have to decide how much infotainment in a car is enough and the extent to which cars should be allowed to make decisions for their operators.
 Imagine a car thus transformed, and it is easy to see why Michigan's economic stewards were so shaken up by visions of future cars. As cars merge with consumer electronics, they become less obviously the domain of the auto companies. Lovins, the inventor of what he calls a Hypercar vehicle (a concept incubated at Rocky Mountain Institute), sees future cars manufactured from light, strong carbon-fiber composites, running at first on hybrid engines. They will be collections of components in much the same way that personal computers are today. These vehicles could be manufactured virtually anywhere by any company willing to enter the business. Companies may well be able to take orders on a Monday and have the car assembled and delivered by Wednesday. They may well come out of electronics factories in China.
 The vision of a car as a lightweight consumer-electronics device may provide some hope to those who would otherwise believe the challenges in developing a mass-market hydrogen-fuel-cell car will keep the world waiting for generations. An ultralight car half the weight of current models combined with better tires and aerodynamics ''reduces the wattage needed to power the car by two-thirds,'' Lovins says. And ''because fuel cells are three times smaller than usual, drivers can pay three times more per kilowatt to drive them.'' Lovins also notes that with more efficient cars around smaller fuel cells, there is no need to develop new storage technology for hydrogen because you can use smaller tanks, which would require less hydrogen under pressure. What's more, as with most electronics, fuel-cell cars would be likely to drop in price, not grow more expensive. Lovins cites the production costs on thousands of different manufactured goods. ''Every doubling of cumulative production volume,'' he notes, ''drops the cost 20 percent.'' If this vision of the future car starts to take real shape, Michigan has its work cut out for it. Texas, however, home to Michael Dell, might be a bit less fearful.


GRAPHIC: Drawings: The car in the future is about finding the right balance among automotive values.
The Future of Driving seen through the eyes of eight illustrators and designers.: Brian Cronin: Smaller, more fuel efficient, less wasteful.
Michael Bierut: Want to get consumers to convert to more fuel-efficient cars? Let highway signs describe distances in dollars instead of miles, updated hourly to reflect runaway inflation.
Mirko Ilic: Aerodynamic. If a pole is added, this car can be parked in a vertical position in order to save some parking space. It has in-wheel motors, therefore the need for a rear axle and the transmission is eliminated.
Brett Ryder: Transport will be so advanced, you won't even see it
Christoph Niemann: Grasoline. Not only will cars be friendlier to the environment
they will also be much fuzzier.
Jorge Colombo: The morning commute's movie was about primitive travel.
Knickerbocker: The design of the hydrogen car is based on the letter H, the symbol for hydrogen on the periodic table of elements. This branding would help promote the progressive energy it uses and help revolutionize the way we drive.
 Chip Kidd: I'm hoping that in the near future when you charge for your car's fuel, it will be with a plug as opposed to a credit card. (Drawings by Karlsson Wilker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (92%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (91%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); GAS STATIONS (76%); SPACECRAFT (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



596 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; EUROPE'S 'IT' CITIES -- DESIGN: COPENHAGEN; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Heavyweights and newcomers bring focus back to the shore

BYLINE: By ARIC CHEN. 
ARIC CHEN writes frequently about design and architecture.

 BODY:
It lacks the buzz and hype of London and the familiar ring of Bilbao. But Scandinavia's Oresund region, which includes the Danish capital, Copenhagen, and Malmo in southern Sweden, has -- at least for the moment -- taken Europe's center stage for new architecture. 
 Since its completion in 2000, visitors have gawked at the Oresund Bridge, a nearly five-mile-long engineering feat that helps shuttle thousands across the Oresund Strait, between Copenhagen and Malmo, each day. But in recent weeks, attention has returned to the cities on shore, with the near-simultaneous completion of buildings by architecture heavyweights like Santiago Calatrava, Zaha Hadid and the MVRDV firm. 
In all respects, the most high-profile newcomer is the Turning Torso, www.turningtorso.com, a spine-tingling residential and commercial tower in Malmo that spirals 54 stories above the Western Harbor, a former shipyard area that many see as a model for urban redevelopment. The building is the work of Mr. Calatrava, the Spanish architect who has also designed the new transit hub for Lower Manhattan. ''I was asked to create a new sign for the city,'' he said of his tower's iconic presence in Malmo. 
 Rising alone on the skyline of the once heavily industrial city, Mr. Calatrava's design is a vertiginous stack of nine twisting cubes braced by a finlike steel exoskeleton. Its form closely follows that of a six-foot-tall marble and steel sculpture that he created in 1991 and that will be included in ''Santiago Calatrava: Sculpture Into Architecture,'' an exhibition that opens Oct. 18 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
 Not to be outdone by its neighboring upstart, the perennial design bastion of Copenhagen -- which is less than an hour away by car, or 40 minutes by train -- unveiled its own architectural showstoppers this summer. Ms. Hadid's addition to the Ordrupgaard, the art museum in suburban Charlottenlund at Vilvordevej 110, (45-39) 64-11-83, www.ordrupgaard.dk, oozes with flowing linear volumes in black concrete. And on the city's waterfront, in the Havnestad neighborhood, the leading Dutch firm of MVRDV transformed two grain silos into the Gemini Residence, a dazzling housing complex where the apartments have been hung off the existing concrete cylinders like stacks of glass rings. 
 Indeed, Copenhagen has long been steeped in the cachet of Danish design, but like many other cities, it has taken to luring star names from abroad. Opened last year in the former Royal Boathouse, the Danish Jewish Museum, at Proviantpassagen 6, (45-33) 11-22-18, www.jewmus.dk, was designed by the New York-based Daniel Libeskind, who retrofitted the early-17th-century building with the gashed and tilting surfaces that are among his signatures. 
 Nevertheless, plenty of room remains for native talents. Perhaps the most prominent and spectacular building to rise recently is the Copenhagen Opera House, Ekvipagemestervej 10, (45-33) 69-69-69, www.operahus.dk. Designed by the veteran Danish architect Henning Larsen and opened in January, it sits on a small island in the harbor, its glass facade bulging beneath an enormous cantilevered roof. Mr. Larsen, however, doesn't mind the new competition, saying, ''I think it's very inspiring, and brings in new thoughts.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Copenhagen Opera House, designed by Henning Larsen, makes a striking presence on a small island in the harbor. (Photo by John McConnico for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (87%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXHIBITIONS (69%); TRAINS (67%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (60%) Travel and Vacations; Architecture

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (54%) Aric Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) DENMARK (95%); SWEDEN (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%) Copenhagen (Denmark); Denmark

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



597 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Housing Plans Nudged For Chance at More Jobs

BYLINE: By GREG CLARKIN

 BODY:
THE lot on the western end of downtown Stamford faces a parking lot, and the constant drone of traffic on I-95 is unavoidable. The site was going to be developed into housing for lower-and middle-income residents, units designed to meet the growing need for more affordable housing in a growing city.
 A development deal to lure the Royal Bank of Scotland to Stamford has forced a change in those plans. The city has decided to use the lot for the bank; the housing complex, which was to have about 60 apartments, will have to find a new site. 
But housing advocates are not concerned. The city, they said, has long shown a commitment to build such housing and the mayor said last week that the city is close to finishing negotiations on a new location for the displaced complex. 
 ''I would give this city higher marks than a lot of other places,'' said Ross Burkhardt, president of New Neighborhoods, a Stamford-based developer of affordable housing. ''It doesn't mean they're perfect, but they've supported us.''
 Advocates said one reason the city has been so supportive is its desire to attract companies, which choose locations based on many criteria, including access to a work force at all ends of the pay scale. And those workers need somewhere to live.
 ''There's not going to be any interest in any company to move here if it's not going to have the work force to meet their needs,'' said State Senator Andrew McDonald, a Democrat of Stamford. ''We need to have housing in close proximity to places of employment.''
 Mr. McDonald said ensuring that workers can live in the city they work in is ''a critical element to a dynamic work force.''
 Jeffrey Freiser, executive director of the Connecticut Housing Coalition, a statewide network of affordable housing organizations, said development plans must include more than just jobs. ''Clearly we need to have affordable housing linked to economic development,'' he said. ''They go hand in hand.''
 There are a number of ways of determining who is eligible for affordable housing units, depending on where the financing for the unit comes from. Under some federal programs, an annual income of $70,000 or below is the norm. Other programs allow for incomes in the Stamford area of up to about $85,000.
 Mr. Burkhardt said there are just not enough affordable apartments to meet the demand.
 ''The market for people who are earning below $75,000 a year is really tough,'' he said. ''It's very hard to find anything.'' ''We could build it day in and day out and fill it all tomorrow,'' Mr. Burkhardt said. 
 Mayor Dannel Malloy said the city is negotiating for two other locations to build the housing displaced by the bank, both in the same general area as the previous site.
 ''What we have done is broken the mold,'' in terms of affordable housing projects, Mr. Malloy said. As the city has grown, affordable units have been integrated into the neighborhoods so that that are ''cheek to jowl with market-rate units,'' he said.
 Michael Freimuth, the city's director of economic development, estimated that during the past two to three years, 100 units the city deemed affordable had been put on the market, with another 200 in the pipeline. Rents on the units are often based on income, with qualifying families expected to pay 25 percent to 30 percent of their income.
 To illustrate the gap between wages and housing costs, Mr. Freiser said research from the National Low Income Housing Coalition found that workers need to earn $27.63 an hour to afford the rent on a ''modest'' apartment in Stamford. ''That's what you need to earn per hour, full time, to afford a two-bedroom apartment in Stamford,'' Mr. Freiser said.
 He calculated that a minimum-wage worker would need to work upward of 23 hours a day to afford a ''modest'' apartment.
 But it's not just minimum-wage workers who are dealing with a shortage of housing. The pool of people eligible for affordable-housing programs has grown in recent years to include many in what was considered the middle class.
 ''There is significant stress for those earning even middle income,'' said Larry Kluetsch, executive director of the Mutual Housing Association, a Stamford based affordable-housing developer. ''It cuts across everybody. Affordable housing has hit the middle class and it's no longer a dirty word.''
 Mr. Kluetsch said one growing trend is the movement of Stamford residents out of the city in search of affordable housing. While it is a decades-old trend, Mr. Kluetsch said he has seen more residents moving north to the Bridgeport area.
 Sandra Clarke is one of them. She attended elementary, middle and high school in Stamford, but she found it too expensive to buy a house in the city.
 Two years ago she moved to Bridgeport, buying a four-bedroom house for about $200,000. Ms. Clarke takes a bus to the Bridgeport train station and commutes to Stamford, where she is an executive assistant at Pitney Bowes. 
 ''It was never doable,'' Ms. Clarke said about buying in Stamford. ''I couldn't even put a bid on anything.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A housing complex was planned on the site for the bank. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); LABOR FORCE (87%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Housing; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Bank of Scotland Plc

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (72%); RBS (LSE) (72%); RBS (AMS) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (73%) Dannel (Mayor) Malloy; Greg Clarkin

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Stamford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



598 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: Another Deal, Another Tax Break

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
WHAT'S a job worth these days? State officials looking to bring the Royal Bank of Scotland to Stamford said they thought jobs at the bank were worth about $87,000 each. That's how much the state offered in tax credits to lure the bank to Stamford. To some, that sounds like an expensive gamble. To others, it's a bargain.
 Proponents of these kinds of deals make a straightforward case. Connecticut needs to create jobs, and companies with lucrative salaries and benefits aren't coming here free. With the state lagging in job creation as compared with the rest of the country, it's an argument that has proved persuasive in the Legislature in the past.
But there are many skeptics. 
 ''I'm not saying that every one of these deals fails, but most of them are questionable,'' said state Senator Anthony Guglielmo, a Republican on the Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee.
 The officials who set up the Stamford deal portray it as anything but questionable. The Royal Bank of Scotland, one of the biggest banks in the world, plans to build a headquarters with a trading floor in Stamford across the street from UBS, another major financial institution that built its headquarters with assistance from the state. 
 The Royal Bank of Scotland already has employees in Greenwich at RBS Greenwich Capital, but those 700 workers and another 550 from New York would move to Stamford. If the bank grows at its projected rate, the move will bring 1,150 jobs to Connecticut within five years, according to the state's economic analysis of the deal. To bring them here, the state has pledged $100 million worth of tax credits, as well as additional sales tax exemptions for construction materials.
 The announcement of the deal contained some inconsistencies. While Gov. M. Jodi Rell said in a statement that the bank would build a 500,000-square-foot headquarters in Stamford, a consultant's economic analysis said the building would take up 550,000 square feet, and the City of Stamford announced it would be 700,000 square feet.
 And while Ms. Rell's release said the move would bring 1,150 jobs as the company grows, Stamford Mayor Dannel P. Malloy announced the project would bring ''2,000 initial jobs,'' and 1,000 more ''to be added later.'' He also estimated that the deal would indirectly create 7,000 other jobs.
 Mr. Malloy said Ms. Rell's figures represented the minimum number of jobs the bank would have to bring to the city to get the tax credits. His job figures, he said, are ''ultimately closer to what we're talking about.'' Mr. Malloy also said the bank's headquarters could encompass as much as 700,000 square feet once all plans are final.
 The bank itself isn't ready to give details about the move. Peter Ward, the senior vice president and head of corporate communications at RBS Greenwich Capital, said on Tuesday that the company would not comment on the deal until it is final.
 Greg LeRoy, a critic of tax incentives for businesses who wrote the book ''The Great American Jobs Scam: Corporate Tax Dodging and the Myth of Job Creation,'' said it's not uncommon to find discrepancies in the figures cited by public officials for large taxpayer-financed deals.
 ''It raises issues of rigor by public officials,'' Mr. LeRoy said. ''Do they know what they're getting in exchange for the package?''
 Oley Carpp, managing director for the State Department of Economic and Community Development, which worked on the deal, said the state's figures were based on conservative estimates that would give legislators a clear picture of how the company is expected to perform. 
 Legislators will have a chance to review the deal and the incentives. If enough of them question the deal, they can bring it to a vote.
 Representative Demetrios Giannaros, a Democrat on the Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee, said he would urge his colleagues to scrutinize the deal. If it comes to a vote, he said he would oppose it.
 ''One hundred million dollars is a lot of money,'' he said in an interview on Monday. ''We could give $100 million of tax cuts.''
 He said he was concerned that the taxpayer-financed breaks allow one company to have an unfair advantage over its competitors.
 ''I think most of it is a waste of money that favors specific businesses and stockholders at the expense of other businesses and taxpayers,'' he said.
 Supporters of the bank deal said it was particularly solid because the company must meet performance goals to receive the credits. In addition, even though Connecticut would be sacrificing revenue because of the tax breaks, the state would net $204 million in new tax revenues and $63 million in local tax revenues from the deal over 10 years, according to the governor's statement.
 Even if this deal goes through, however, some officials and outside critics say the state needs to examine its policies regarding tax incentives to corporations as well as taxpayer-financed loans and grants.
 The state's record on job creation has been mixed, as detailed in a report sent to the Legislature last November by the Department of Economic and Community Development, one of three state agencies focused on helping businesses create jobs. A private consultant surveyed 183 companies that had received state financing over the previous 10 years about their employment statistics and found that 68 of them, or 37 percent, had not met job targets.
 James Watson, director of legislation, regulation and communication for the economic development department, noted that the job figures represented a ''snapshot in time,'' that did not give a full picture of the state's gains. Ten of the companies that did not meet their targets had job targets they still had time to meet, the report said. But 13 of the companies had either gone out of business or were in bankruptcy, and 29 others had either paid penalties or negotiated new agreements with the state. As of the date of the report, the state had recovered $5.2 million of the incentives from 21 companies that had failed to meet job targets.
 Mr. Watson said the agency's record was very strong; even the companies that had failed to hit their job targets had created 72 percent of the jobs they had pledged. Those that did hit their targets had created 142 percent of the jobs they pledged.. Over the past 10 years, companies receiving incentives added about 7,000 jobs, according to the report.
 Mr. Guglielmo said he was concerned, however, that the state had given loans and grants to too many borderline companies, putting taxpayer money at risk. When deals are strong, he said, companies can generally get private financing.
 ''If a deal is a good deal economically there's no need for government to be involved,'' he said.
 Mr. Watson acknowledged that many of the companies the state deals with are ''right on the margin.''
 Mr. Guglielmo said he thought companies know that states like Connecticut are hurting for jobs, so they threaten to go elsewhere unless they get tax incentives or grants. That leads to a bidding war, particularly in areas like the New York region where three states vie for companies' attention, he said.
 Mr. LeRoy, the critic of corporate tax incentives, said the fight among New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for jobs has made the area a hub for corporate tax breaks.
 ''You're subsidizing a company to move around the same labor market,'' he said. 
 Companies have flirted with Connecticut in the past, announcing major moves only to change their minds and take packages from other states at the last minute. Critics said the companies simply threaten to leave their states with the understanding that they can be lured back with enough taxpayer money.
 In the late 1990's, the state offered Zurich Centre Group, an insurance and financial services company, $190 million in tax credits to relocate 400 jobs to Stamford. The deal, worth about $475,000 per job, was among the most lucrative ever offered. But after announcing its plans to move, the company decided to stay in Manhattan, buttressed by a $5.8 million incentive package from the city. 
 It happened again, on a smaller scale, earlier this year. The state offered a $4 million loan to lure a Rhode Island manufacturer, Brown & Sharpe, to North Stonington, which would get a $2 million grant to fix up the site. A bidding war ensued between the states, with Rhode Island Gov. Donald L. Carcieri proposing to double Connecticut's financial commitment. In June, the company passed on Connecticut's deal. 
 But for every Brown & Sharpe, proponents of tax incentives argue, there is a UBS, the investment banking giant that Stamford lured from New York in the early 1990's. In that deal, the state offered $145 million in corporate tax credits to UBS, formerly Swiss Bank, as long as the company met certain performance goals, said Mr. Carpp, the managing director for the Department of Economic and Community Development. The company has since expanded and restructured its deal with the state. It now has the largest trading floor in the world, Mr. Carpp said. More than 4,000 people work at the building either as employees of UBS or as contractors, he said.
 Now, another financial services company is trying to replicate that success. Adding the Royal Bank of Scotland to an area that already has a company like UBS, Mr. Malloy said, would put Stamford over the top.
 ''The payback on this transaction is going to be very rapid,'' he said. ''It solidifies our position as one of the major financial-services cities in the country.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Royal Bank of Scotland will be on an empty lot across the street from UBS, above. The bank's current office in Greenwich, left. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES TAX (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (70%) Banks and Banking; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Tax Credits

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Bank of Scotland Plc

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (94%); RBS (LSE) (94%); RBS (AMS) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (75%); M JODI RELL (75%) Avi Salzman; Greg Leroy

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; Stamford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



599 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Rich Nations Reach Deal To Drop Debt Of Poor Ones

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Finance ministers from around the world reached agreement on Saturday on a plan to wipe out as much as $55 billion in debt owed by impoverished countries.
 The deal still needs to win support from the major shareholders of the World Bank, which would forgive a large portion of the outstanding loans, but American and European officials said they were confident the plan would win approval on Sunday.
The agreement, which will initially affect about 18 countries, came after two years of grinding debate between the United States, Japan, Britain and most of the wealthy nations in Europe.
 ''The breakthrough is that we now have a set of proposals that are supported by the whole international community,'' said Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer for Britain and the chairman of the International Monetary Fund's policy-making committee. 
 If all goes according to plan, the 18 highly indebted low-income countries could be freed as early as the end of this year from the need to repay a total of about $1 billion a year in interest and principal. 
 Though the nominal amount of debt at stake is about $55 billion, the actual cost of forgiving the debt immediately is closer to about $18 billion.
 Eventually, as many as 35 countries could qualify for debt relief and the total cost to wealthy countries would climb higher.
 The criteria for eligibility was one of the most difficult issues, with the United States, Japan and Germany adamantly opposed to opening the door to an ever-expanding list of nations.
 When the plan was first hammered out last summer by the United States and Britain, the idea was to make it available to countries that are currently categorized as ''highly indebted poor countries.''
 But fund officials said eligibility had to be based on a specific formula that would apply the same standards to all countries. 
 The exact criteria remained unclear on Saturday, though Mr. Brown said it was based on a nation's per capita income. In addition to being poor, however, a government has to follow ''sound'' economic policies and meet standards for good governance.
 The immediate goal of the plan is to give hopelessly indebted nations a chance to wipe the slate clean. The broader goal, supported by the Bush administration and a broad coalition of anti-poverty activists, is to shift future aid to outright grants and away from loans.
 The biggest political obstacle to the plan stemmed from demands by some European countries, as well as by Paul Wolfowitz, the new president of the World Bank, that wealthy countries make firm commitments to pick up the full cost of debt relief.
 On Friday, the Group of 8 industrial nations signed a letter explicitly promising that they would cover the cost ''dollar for dollar'' and that they would not reduce their regular contributions to the World Bank in order to make up for the cancelled debt repayment. 
 Even as they closed in on an agreement to wipe out billions of dollars in debt for poor countries, finance ministers meeting here this weekend were far more divided about the long-term roles of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
 American officials proposed that the fund cut back on its loans for specific projects in low-income countries while playing a more aggressive role in pressuring countries -- implicitly China, though it was not cited by name -- that may be manipulating their exchange rates.
 The fund, he said, should have a ''limited'' role in providing assistance to low-income countries. But it should ''not shy away from tough judgments'' on a nation's exchange-rate practices.
 Treasury officials are hoping that the fund could put new public pressure on China to let its currency float more freely. China has pegged its currency, the yuan, at a fixed exchange rate to the dollar for more than a decade. 
 Many economists say the yuan is heavily undervalued, making Chinese exports cheaper than they would be if the yuan traded at market rates. 
 But Rodrigo de Rato, the fund's managing director, had already cautioned Friday that it would be ''unrealistic'' to expect the fund to achieve much by berating countries over their exchange rates.
 Instead, Mr. De Rato has focused on prodding governments to shore up their underlying policies. On Saturday, he warned that the United States needed to reduce its large budget deficits and huge foreign indebtedness.
 ''As the net external liabilities of the U.S. continue to rise, so do the vulnerabilities of the nation's economy,'' Mr. De Rato said in a speech at the annual meetings here of the fund and the World Bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); APPROVALS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (57%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations; Credit; Foreign Aid; Third World and Developing Countries; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; International Monetary Fund; Group of Eight

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (55%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe; European Union

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005



600 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Agency Votes to Report Iran to U.N. Security Council for Treaty Violations 

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER<

DATELINE: VIENNA, Sept. 24 

 BODY:
Iran's showdown with the West over its nuclear ambitions entered a new, more volatile phase on Saturday, as the board of the International Atomic Energy Agency voted to report the country to the United Nations Security Council for violating its obligations under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
 The decision, by a vote of 22 to 1, with 12 countries abstaining, was expected. But it reflected continuing, often bitter, divisions within the agency's governing board about how firmly to handle Iran.
Only a flurry of last-minute diplomacy at the agency's headquarters here persuaded Russia and China to abstain rather than oppose the measure. Venezuela cast the sole no vote. 
 The resolution declares Iran guilty of ''many failures and breaches of its obligations,'' but leaves open the timing of a report to the Security Council. Russia and China opposed an earlier draft of the resolution, which would have reported Iran to the Council immediately.
 The United States, which strongly backed the European-drafted resolution, expressed satisfaction, saying that it clearly raised doubts about the peaceful nature of Iran's nuclear program.
 ''We're concerned that Iran's activities pose an increasing threat to international peace and security,'' said the American ambassador to the agency, Greg Schulte. ''Iran's pattern of deception, its concealment, its confrontational approach, increasingly worries the world community.''
 Iran condemned the move as part of a politically motivated campaign orchestrated by the United States and Britain.
 ''The United States and United Kingdom left no screws unturned to forge consensus here,'' said the chief Iranian delegate, Javad Vaeidi. ''They failed. There is no consensus on the way to go forward.''
 Mr. Vaeidi did not say whether Iran would resume its enrichment of uranium or abrogate its agreements with the agency. Iranian officials hinted at that possibility in two unsigned letters they showed to several board members and the agency's director general, Mohamed ElBaradei, on Friday night.
 ''For us, good will begets good will, while threat invokes threat,'' Mr. Vaeidi said after the vote.
 The open-ended nature of the resolution suggests there will be another round of diplomacy in Vienna before the dispute is referred to the Security Council. The Council could impose sanctions, but is more likely simply to step up the pressure on Tehran to abide by the nonproliferation treaty.
 ''I hope everybody will go back to the negotiating table,'' Dr. ElBaradei said after the vote. ''I've always said this is the only way forward.''
 Russia and China opposed reporting Iran to the Security Council because they said the action would exacerbate an already tense situation. Both have strong economic ties to Iran, particularly Russia, which is constructing a nuclear power plant in Bushehr, in southern Iran.
 Russia said it agreed to abstain only because the timing of a referral was left open, according to a Western diplomat who attended the meeting and asked not to be identified because it was a closed session. China urged Iran to be more forthcoming, the diplomat said, but expressed worry that the matter would be removed from the agency.
 British, German, and French diplomats labored all week to avert no votes from Russia and China because they hold permanent seats on the Security Council and could scuttle future action against Iran.
 Europe's push for this resolution came after its own diplomatic initiative with Tehran collapsed last month, when Iran abandoned a pledge to suspend sensitive work on nuclear fuel processing. 
 The vote was the culmination of two and a half years of confrontation between Iran and the atomic energy agency, which began in 2003 after the agency's inspectors uncovered evidence that Iran had concealed efforts to enrich uranium, a crucial building block for nuclear weapons.
 ''It's an excellent outcome, given the circumstances,'' said Gary Milhollin, the director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, a research group in Washington. ''It shows that if you force countries to choose between opposing proliferation and defending their economic interests, it's hard for them to say, 'We don't care about proliferation.'''
 Perhaps the biggest surprise was India, which initially opposed the resolution but voted in favor of it.
 The Bush administration last July proposed sharing civilian nuclear technology with India, a step that would require the approval of Congress. Mr. Milhollin said that prospect probably played a part in India's decision to support the United States here.
 The debate over Iran this week was more contentious than any in the agency's recent history. Most of its resolutions are passed unanimously. Abdul Samad Minty, the head of the South African delegation, complained that Britain forced a vote without giving countries time to digest the revised resolution. South Africa abstained.
 Western diplomats, however, played down the divisions, noting that several nonaligned countries voted in favor of the measure.
 ''The fact that Peru, Singapore, Ghana, India and Ecuador voted to support this resolution undercuts Iran's argument that this is purely Western political pressure,'' said a Western diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity, citing the delicacy of the negotiations.
 Dr. ElBaradei appeared eager to put the whole episode behind him. ''Of course it would have been better to have a united board to send a unified message,'' he said. ''But I still think the message is quite clear.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); TERRORISM (59%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Uranium ; Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) International Atomic Energy Agency; United Nations

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (59%) Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAN (79%); FRANCE (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%) Iran; Russia; China; Venezuela; Great Britain; France; Germany; Iran

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2005

 
