

601 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
In Europe, Too, Social Security Isn't So Secure

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
THE "contract between the generations" that underlies most national pension systems in Europe, as well as Social Security in the United States, is headed inexorably for trouble, in less than a decade in many countries.
When the post-World War II baby boom generation retires, younger generations may not be able to keep their part of the bargain. In most developed countries, people are living longer while having fewer children, spelling disaster for "pay as you go" pension systems that tax current workers to finance the retirement of their elders. 
 The problem is even more acute in Europe than in America, because Europeans rely more heavily on government pensions. And Europeans of the generations that experienced World War II and its aftermath regard the generational contract as part of a sacred commitment to eliminate the economic insecurities and injustices that helped spawn that conflict.
In a hedonistic, materialistic age that takes peace for granted, "pay as you go" pension systems are soon going to require young people to sacrifice a good part of their own well-being to keep their elders living in style. Will they want to?
 
Don't Bet on It
 Don't bet on it, according to the 29-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, which is encouraging its members to start thinking now about switching to pension systems financed by investment plans. Switching isn't easy.
This week voters in New Zealand will start going to the polls in a referendum asking whether the country should move to a compulsory retirement savings plan and gradually give up the tax-based system that has provided pensions for the past 100 years.
The referendum may fail because of fears that mandatory retirement savings would cancel out tax cuts promised by the conservative coalition elected last year. But New Zealanders are not alone in their reluctance to bite the bullet.
In 1995, when a conservative Government in France announced that it would require locomotive engineers on the state-operated railways to work beyond the age of 50 -- like everyone else -- before they could collect pensions, a national transportation strike shut down the country until the Government backed off. Most people, according to polls, supported the strikers, thinking the Government was trying to weasel out of a half-century-old commitment to public servants.
This June, the French replaced the conservative Government with a Socialist one that immediately canceled tax incentives for private retirement investment plans.
The French system, too, is headed for trouble. French pensions pay retirees about 70 percent of their average wages. Right now, with about three workers for every person drawing a pension, financing pensions requires an average payroll tax of about 25 percent of gross salary, with employers paying more than employees.
 
Pure Pain
 But in the year 2015, France will have only two workers per retiree; by 2030, according to recent projections, 30 million French workers and their employers will be expected to finance pensions for 18.6 million retirees. Pure "pay as you go" would mean pure economic pain for those paying.
The curve is similar in Japan and Germany, Italy and most other European countries except Britain, where since the 1980's 5.5 million people have opted out of the state system, taking advantage of tax incentives offered by Conservative governments to encourage private investment plans.
Prime Ministers Margaret Thatcher and John Major may have been able to change pensions, but they never tried seriously to do away with cradle-to-grave socialized medicine in Britain because people loved it too much. Continental Europeans feel much the same about their pension systems, which eliminated one of the main causes of social insecurity in the first half of the century.
In Germany, runaway inflation and the two world wars twice destroyed the entire life savings that earlier generations had counted on to pay for their retirements.
In France, the trauma of defeat, the German occupation and collaboration in World War II -- and pressure from the Communist Party, which emerged as a leader of the Resistance -- created a powerful demand for a system of postwar social solidarity that, like the rest of the welfare state, would heal past divisions.
Fifty years later, the French and other Europeans consider their social benefits as rights, and governments, mindful of the French experience in 1995, are skittish about paring them. The result is that in most countries, few people are even aware of the looming gap in pension funding.
The most obvious solution is what Conservative governments did in Britain: encouraging people to provide for themselves, using Social Security as a fallback. But people can feel abused when, as in Britain, governments change and the incentives for private investment are reduced.
For continental Europeans, that strategy is too harsh in any event. People who invest their savings wisely or with a bit of luck could end up living high off the hog, while others, they fear, could end up with less.
Another possible solution is to reduce benefits. In Germany, where pensions already take 20.3 percent of every salary (shared evenly between employers and employees), Chancellor Helmut Kohl's coalition has proposed gradually letting pension benefits erode from the current level of 70 percent of a person's last net salary, to 64 percent by 2030. But the Social Democratic opposition has so far blocked any change. In the United States, where Social Security takes 10 percent of salaries, split evenly between employees and employers, benefits are just over 40 percent of average earnings.
Some economists suggest that the retirement age, now 65 in most countries with "pay as you go" systems, should be gradually raised to 70 to keep enough money flowing in to stave off bankruptcy. But by far the preferred solution, according to Douglas Fore, an O.E.C.D. economist, is to switch to fully funded investment systems.
Chile did that in 1981 on the day most people around the world celebrate as Labor Day, May 1.
 
Passing the Buck
 And today, 93 percent of Chile's population participates in a system that allows employees to contribute 10 percent of their annual salary, up to $20,000 a year, into one of 15 retirement investment funds under Government supervision.
Jose Pinera, the architect of the plan, said recently that he had persuaded authorities in Argentina, Peru and Colombia to move toward similar systems, and that Mexico, Bolivia and El Salvador were headed that way.
But in countries with less dynamic economic growth, as a recent OECD study put it, "There are no painless solutions. The younger generation will have to pay the bulk of the costs one way or another."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Longer Lives, More Retirees"
Increased life expectancies for baby boomers around the world will mean more people collecting government pensions but fewer workers to pay for them. A look at people over age 65 as a percentage of the working-age population, and projections for the future. Charts show people over age 65 as a percentage of the working-age population for the United States, Britain, France, Japan, and Germany. (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (87%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT (OECD) ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); PARIS, FRANCE (87%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TRENDS (87%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); AGING (78%); STRIKES (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); TAX LAW (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); REFERENDUMS (69%); TRAINS (66%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



602 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Pulp Nonfiction;
The Running of the Tomatoes

BYLINE: By AL GOODMAN 

DATELINE: BUNOL, Spain

 BODY:
ON Wednesday, as on the last Wednesday of August every year, the village square of Bunol turned red in a giant food fight with ripe tomatoes. Upwards of 20,000 people pelted one another for an hour -- and, before and after, bought food and drinks and acted like tourists.
The sticky frenzy is called La Tomatina. It has attracted television cameras from abroad and listings on the Internet. A restaurant named Tomatina opened last year in St. Helena, Calif., decorated with a photo of the fight and a door painted to look like it was just splattered with a tomato. 
 This is no small feat for Bunol, a working-class town of 9,300 people formerly renowned for its cement factory. The town, in fact, formerly had nothing to do with tomatoes. It still does not grow them or process them, and its bars don't even serve Bloody Marys.
But in Spain's crowded field of town fiestas, that's no matter. Spain has its old festivals -- Pamplona's running of the bulls is the best known -- and now its new ones, the throngs attracted by cute themes that have no roots to speak of in local tradition or culture.
Pamplona was running bulls through town back in the 16th century. In Valencia, 24 miles from Bunol in eastern Spain, the "fallas" festival is traced to medieval carpenters who burned excess wood shavings on March 19 to honor their patron saint, St. Joseph. It has grown to become a spectacular blaze of papier-mache figures on a single night, with hundreds of thousands of onlookers.
In gaining recognition for its fiesta, Bunol had competition not just from these two, but from many towns whose fiestas tapped centuries of tradition. And Bunol had little of its own.
The town banned bullfights in the 1930's, considering them to be cruel. But a decade later, a tomato fight broke out on the town square during a local procession. There are varying explanations of why the tomatoes started flying, but all agree that more tomatoes were thrown the following year, and the fiesta took seed.
It remained mainly a local event until 1983, when Spanish national television showed up. Tomato T-shirt sales followed soon after, and this year one villager started selling waterproof disposable cameras for $10 to tourists about to enter the fray.
Joining in the action last week were travelers from San Francisco, Washington, London and Tokyo who said that making tomato sauce in public was their principal reason for visiting Spain.
 
Museums. Big Deal.
 A booming firework signaled the start, and six large trucks filled with 137 tons of pear-shaped tomatoes entered the town square in a staggered procession.
"It was like being caught in a blender," said Martin Lenick, 33, a chemical engineer from Chicago who first heard about the fight the previous night while enjoying a Bloody Mary in Valencia.
When the exuberant crowd surged to grab tomatoes dumped from the trucks, the sheer force of motion pulled Mr. Lenick out of his $80 handmade leather sandals purchased days earlier in Milan. They were lost in the slush, and he happily fought barefoot.
The bragging rights seem to be irresistible for foreigners. "Everyone sees museums," said Deirdre Goggins, 31, who works at a San Francisco software firm. "But how many can say, 'When I was in Spain I participated in a tomato fight'?"
After the fight, everyone cleans up the streets and building facades, and many go home for a meal of tomato salad and gazpacho, a less-than-ancient tradition.
Other Spanish villages have also discovered that fiestas need not be historically certified.
In the isolated southern mountain town of Berchules, bar and discotheque owners were fed up with power failures in December that more than once left their New Year's Eve galas in the dark. So the town, population 860, invented a fiesta three years ago to celebrate New Year's Eve in August. This year, foreigners were among the 5,000 people who paid top dollar to uncork champagne, dine, dance and kiss each other at the stroke of midnight.
Government officials say fiestas add variety for tourists who would be visiting Spain anyway for its beaches or art museums. Tourism generated 10 percent of the nation's $582 billion gross domestic product last year and accounted for one out of every eight jobs.
There are no data on the impact of the fiestas, but some towns have estimates. Valencia, Spain's third- largest city, spends about $3 million a year to build its papier-mache "fallas," and in recent years has taken in more than $65 million from the fiesta.
Bunol's main expense is tomatoes, about $14,000 worth this year. All of them, except for those from local gardens that might end up in the gazpacho, are trucked in from the next province.
That is still closer than the original home for tomatoes, which Spanish explorers brought back from Mexico and Peru. Bunol is nestled at the foot of a 15th-century castle. And if someone could locate a local ancestor who sailed with the conquistadors, the problem of the tomato fight fiesta's short pedigree might be solved after all.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sauced: revelers at La Tomatina in Bunol, Spain. So what if the town's history has little to do with tomatoes? (Santiago Lyon/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NAVARRE, SPAIN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUNOL (SPAIN); SPAIN; SPAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NAVARRE, SPAIN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FESTIVALS; TOMATOES FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FESTIVALS (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BULLFIGHTING (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); CEMENT MFG (54%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, AL

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



603 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: What's Ahead for Working Men and Women

 BODY:
Twenty-five years ago, had anyone ever heard of "telecommuting" to work? Twenty years ago, was there such a thing as a "contract worker"? The working world isn't what it used to be, and more change, no doubt, lies ahead. What can American workers expect in the future? Here are a few scary -- and optimistic -- answers.
 
Paul Krugman is a professor of economics at M.I.T.
 Most people assume that the jobs of the future will be related to the technologies of the future. They imagine that we will become a society of telecommuting nerds.
Historically, however, the opposite has happened: job growth tends to be greatest in the occupations that new technology affects the least. We have become supremely efficient at growing food; that is why there are so few farmers. 
In the Labor Department's list of "occupations with the largest job growth," the top five categories are cashiers, janitors and cleaners, salespeople, waiters and waitresses, and nurses. All of these jobs involve "being there" -- having face-to-face contact with the consumer, or dealing in a hands-on way with the unpredictable messiness of the physical world. To put it a bit differently: the typical worker of the 21st century will be doing precisely the kinds of thing that you can't do over the Internet.
 
Lester C. Thurow is a professor of economics at M.I.T.
 The era of lifelong company jobs with regular promotions and annual real wage increases is over. It is your responsibility to manage your own lifetime career. But you won't have a lifetime career.
No one can manage his or her own career without a road map, and economic road maps cannot be drawn unless there are career ladders across companies. And they simply don't exist.
In Europe, the Middle Ages saw vast numbers of masterless laborers wandering back and forth across the countryside. Walled cities and towns were the answer. The Japanese talk about the chaos of having samurai without masters. Our future is the masterless American laborer, wandering from employer to employer, unable to build a career.

Studs Terkel is the author of "My American Century."
 With the teamsters' astonishing victory against United Parcel Service, a word long considered quaint -- solidarity -- has found a new resonance among the great many, hitherto unconcerned. How come? Consider the pervasiveness of part-timers and temps in the workplace. Less pay, fewer benefits, no security.
You, a long-time, full-time employee of the company, seemingly secure, find yourself side by side with a part-timer or temp. What's to prevent you from becoming one of them if it's to the advantage of Mr. Big? Subliminally, images of George and Lenny appear. John Steinbeck's ranch hands -- part-timers, temps -- may have worked in the fields. Today, George and Lenny work in banks, law firms, insurance companies or perhaps at your workplace. You bet you're concerned.

Arlie Russell Hochschild is the author of "The Time Bind: When Work Becomes Home and Home Becomes Work."
 In the next great shift, the American work force will bifurcate into two groups, the overworked and the underworked. Fewer of us will strike that elusive balance between work and the rest of our lives. Every time a company downsizes, it exacerbates this split.
Workers who are let go will face a market filled with jobs less secure, less well paid, more often temporary or part time than the ones they had before. They will wonder how to plan family events and pay next month's rent. For those who work long hours in understaffed offices or factories, home becomes a branch office in which to schedule brief "appointments" with loved ones at home.

Scott Adams is the author of "The Dilbert Future: Thriving on Stupidity in the 21st Century."
 The biggest change in the workplace of the future will be the widespread realization that having one idiot boss is a much higher risk than having many idiot clients. Employees will flee their corporate jobs in increasing numbers, setting up shop as independent contractors. Every person will be a microbusiness.
 I base this prediction on two forces. The first is economics. Contract employees have less management burden. They don't have to attend mandatory safety meetings, mandatory diversity-awareness classes, or mandatory anything. They just work. A contract employee can charge double the cost of a regular employee and still be a bargain.
The second factor: a growing popular understanding of the relative risk of working alone versus the risk of working for one person who can fire you or make you miserable.
When enough people fire their bosses and succeed on their own, it will become increasingly obvious that the greatest risk is a failure to diversify your boss's influence on your fate. That will be a bad time to be a boss.
 
William Julius Wilson, a professor of social policy at Harvard, is the author of "When Work Disappears."
 With changes in technology and the globalization of the economy, knowledge-based industries will soon dwarf all other industries in the economies of Western nations. While many better-educated workers will benefit from these changes, the demand for low-skilled workers will plummet to the lowest depths in human history. In the United States, this pattern will be reflected in extreme and growing wage differentials between the economic haves and have nots.
Increased trade with developing countries will aggravate the economic woes of low-skilled workers. A good deal of domestic production will be displaced by imported products. However, the depressed wages of low-skilled workers will lower the economic incentive to import these products. Nonetheless, the growing wage inequality will enhance economic class antagonisms. As the recognition grows that diminishing wages cut across all groups, political pressures to address this problem with domestic programs will become increasingly multiracial in nature.

Elizabeth Perle McKenna is the author of "When Work Doesn't Work Anymore."
The unfinished women's revolution continues. For all this country's talk about valuing families, we all still work in a world where we're best rewarded if we pretend we don't have any. This fantasy has persevered largely because women, out of necessity, have focused on getting the jobs they deserve, not changing a business culture.
As more women work, our values and needs come with us. Since business must attract and keep talented women, the shift to a "humanized" work world has begun, led by the half of the human race still primarily responsible for taking the dog to the vet.
This shift will mean work environments where careers aren't traumatized by the birth of a child, where "flex time" and "job sharing" aren't synonyms for "mommy track," where companies see the wisdom and profit of less stressed-out workers, and where the definition of success is rewritten to include balance, meaning and connection as much as money, power and prestige.

Michael Moore has just completed "The Big One," a documentary.
I believe the next big labor trend will be the exciting new growth industry of privately owned prisons. For years we've had to settle with accepting inferior products made by inmates in far-off countries. I bought an umbrella made in China the other day and the darn thing fell apart before I even got home. I thought, "If this had been made by American prisoners with good ol' American know-how, I'd be dry."
Why should we go all the way to China to have things made with prison labor when we can do that right here? Many American companies are already doing this. We have the largest prison population ever, and there are only so many license plates to be made.
What an underutilized resource! Why not convert all our closed-down factories into sparkling new prisons? All we have to do to get our old jobs back is turn to a life of crime.

Albert J. Dunlap is chairman and chief executive of the Sunbeam Corporation.
The key to economic growth in the global economy is the freedom and flexibility inherent in America's free enterprise system. But too many workers have not been able to reap the benefits.
This is why some of America's most innovative companies have developed a policy that should become a model: awarding stock options to all workers. A piece of equity in the company should not be traded for wage concessions, but rather be provided in addition to regular compensation. Stock options do more than just increase employee compensation. They shake up the corporate culture and change employee attitudes. Waste gets eliminated, supplies are used more effectively, and employee time is used more productively. It's high time for all C.E.O.'s and boards of directors to take the lead and turn workers from renters into owners.

Claudia Shear is an actress and the author of the play "Blown Sideways Through Life."
 To me, the next great shift for American workers as they drift, tethered together only by computer cables in the arid landscape of the communication revolution, is that there isn't anyone to order lunch in with and split the fries.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Michael Schwab Studio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); TELECOMMUTING (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



604 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Rationing Higher Education;
Why College Isn't for Everyone

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
WELFARE has had to change. Health care has had to change. The corporate world has had to change. Now it's higher education's turn.
In the same way that America is having to make hard choices about distributing finite resources in those other areas, so it is being forced to decide whether what passes for a college education today is worth the price, and whether society can afford degrees for all who want or think they need one. 
 The crunch is coming, especially for public universities, because states are putting brakes on higher-education spending just as the children of baby boomers are projected to swell enrollment by 2 million, to 16.4 million, by the year 2006. The result, from the City University of New York with 200,000 students to the University of California with 165,000, is new debate on who should go to college and why, the quality of what is offered, and academic productivity.
"For a century, this has been a growth industry," said Arthur Levine, president of Columbia Teachers College. "Now government is saying, we have lots of priorities, like health care and prisons, and we can't afford to put another nickel into higher education, and we're going to ask lots of questions."
 
A $180 Billion Industry
 Since World War II, a major aim of public policy has been to make higher education more available, and it has succeeded remarkably. Today two-thirds of all high-school graduates go on to college, nearly 80 percent into public systems. President Clinton would like to make two years of college as universal as high school.
But while educating the elite few was cheap, educating the many is expensive. As college has become more central to society, higher education has grown into a $180 billion industry, nearly 3 percent of the economy, from $2.4 billion, less than 1 percent, 50 years ago.
That growth attracted the attention of state legislators in the early 90's, as tax revenue fell and pressure to cut spending grew. From 1990 to 1994, higher-education spending declined from 14 percent of state budgets to 12.5 percent, according to the Center for the Study of the States at the Rockefeller Institute in Albany. To make up the difference, tuition climbed.
While many states have begun to spend more again, some educators predict that the growth will be limited and carefully monitored. Despite the coming surge in enrollment, said David W. Breneman, an economist and dean of the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia, "I think the growth rate will be grudging."
The public pressure on budgets comes even as more Americans see college as a necessity and a right. In a CBS News poll this month, 75 percent of the 1,307 people questioned said college is needed to get ahead in life, compared with 49 percent in 1978; 86 percent said that "every capable person has a right to receive a college education, even if he or she cannot afford it."
But as Americans demand more education, they are divided over paying for it. In the CBS poll, which had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points, 48 percent of the respondents said the Federal Government was responsible for insuring that every qualified person gets a college education, but 47 percent said it was not. Similarly, 47 percent said that the cost of a college education is justified by what people get out of it, while 40 percent disagreed.
Like health care, higher education faces sentiment that the private sector should do more and government less, that public institutions are bloated, that technology should cut costs. So as more people enroll, public systems grow as targets for politicians and voters.
Nowhere is that more evident than in New York, where admission to the City University of New York is guaranteed to anyone with a high school diploma or its equivalent. Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani criticize CUNY for spending too much effort on remedial classes and for graduating too few of its community-college students.
 
Open Admissions at What Cost?
 The city university's trustees have asked questions going to the heart of the debate: the purpose of the public system. Is it there to get all citizens launched according to their needs -- whether studying engineering, learning English or mastering high-school math? Or is its responsibility to maintain high standards?
"CUNY is the last artifact of the people who created open admissions, where the notion of open access for all continues to be celebrated," Carl T. Hayden, chancellor of the New York State Board of Regents, said recently. "The tradeoff is, if you really are committed to access for all, you are going to be admitting people who are not ready to do college work."
CUNY is approaching a crossroads, he said, but so is all of higher education, "because in large measure, issues of quality have not been addressed."
Some CUNY trustees long for a return to the days when fewer people went on to college and City College drew educated second-generation immigrants who couldn't afford private colleges and Jews, who faced quotas. Today private colleges often recruit the city's best students, while CUNY remains the gateway for tens of thousands of the most disadvantaged, including students living below the poverty line, immigrants who know little or no English and adults working to support their families. Some of these students go on to careers as academics or professionals, CUNY data show, but many drop out after a few semesters.
The trustees are asking whether students should take remedial courses before enrolling. They are looking at ways to measure student progress, in pursuit of what some trustees call "open admissions with standards." They want to shrink the administration while holding CUNY's 15 colleges to more explicit standards.
"We probably have hit the high water mark in terms of revenues from the city and state and have to be judicious in what we cut," Ronald J. Marino, the head of CUNY's fiscal affairs committee, said last week.
For CUNY, nearly all issues are on the table. From state to state, the emphasis varies: in Minnesota, how to dismiss tenured faculty when their programs are superfluous; in California and Texas, how to encourage minority students when affirmative action programs are shut down; in most states, how to make colleges and their faculties more accountable.
Some educators see opportunities to tighten a system grown lax. "We have taken this system as far as we can stretch it, and it's been wonderfully inventive, but less and less of what we do matches society's needs" said Frank Newman, president of the Education Commission of the States, an advisory group.
Perhaps the biggest concern is that what is most likely to be lost in any transformation is access for the most disadvantaged.
"The question is, do you want to help people succeed?" said C. Peter Magrath, president of the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges. "If so, you have to help. Of course, since resources are finite and you don't want to deprive others, you don't want to have students who hang around forever. The question is whether you keep open your doors."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Higher Education: Enrollment Up, Spending Erratic"
Federal and state financing has made higher education available to more people. But in recent years, as college enrollment and tuition costs have gone up, Federal spending has fluctuated and state spending has remained relatively flat. Graph tracks the following: total full-time and part-time fall enrollment in public and private 4-year institutions; average tuition and fees paid per student, per year for public and private 4-year institutions; Federal education support for college, university and vocational programs after high school; and state appropriations for higher education for public and private institutions. Graph runs from 1980 through 1997. (Sources: U.S. Dept. of Education, National Center for Educational Statistics; Center for Higher Education, Illinois State University)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (50%); ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); CHILDREN (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



605 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
Where Even Cops Get Robbed

BYLINE: By PHILIP M. BOFFEY

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG

 BODY:
Crime, or more precisely a rising fear of crime, has become the most serious threat to the success of South Africa's fledgling democratic government. Even a short-time visitor to the nation's chief commercial city is struck by its beleaguered atmosphere. Tour guides warn you not to venture out alone unless you know where you are going. Hotels have ramped down their operations, and many businesses have fled to the suburbs. Whole blocks of apartments have been taken over by drug dealers. Residents of the tonier suburbs live behind walls topped with barbed wire and protected by private security firms, their bedrooms sealed off by internal rape-prevention gates.
The statistics are appalling. South Africa's murder rate is eight times that of the United States, its rape rate three times as high. But the crimes that most disturb residents are brazen carjackings, hijackings and robberies that can hit literally anyone. The president of the nation's top constitutional court was robbed at gunpoint in his own driveway. The police superintendent of a crime-ridden slum was robbed of his car and valuables by gun-toting thugs. Various police stations have been looted of an automated teller machine, a supply of cash and diamonds, and electronic equipment in what were either brazen robberies or inside jobs. 
 The only encouraging trend is that crime is no longer spiraling out of control. The latest quarterly figures show all categories of serious crime either holding steady or declining, albeit at high levels. Government officials are not certain whether crime has really gotten a lot worse than under the previous apartheid regime or whether it has simply invaded previously white areas that had been protected by a repressive police state. Some officials contend that the problem has been exaggerated. But there is no doubt that fear of crime is having an adverse impact. People who emigrate cite it as one of their reasons for leaving. Businesses cite it as a deterrent to expanding their operations. Government officials fear that it may deter badly needed foreign investment.
"Crime is probably the most serious obstacle in the path of our political, economic and social transformation," says Azhar Cachalia, the central Government's secretary for safety and security. "Democracy can only flourish where our people feel safe and in fact are safe in their homes, their businesses and their streets."
The roots of the crime problem lie deep. Widespread poverty, a 40 percent unemployment rate and appalling social conditions are a breeding ground for criminals who now have easy access to richer neighborhoods with their tempting targets. Illegal guns are plentiful, and more open borders since apartheid have allowed criminal syndicates to flood the country with drugs and to traffic in stolen cars, setting off a wave of carjackings. The police in some areas seem overwhelmed, with detectives handling up to 80 cases at a time, four times the number deemed manageable. Some police engage in criminal activities and corruption themselves.
"So far the police have been incredibly inattentive and ineffective," says William Bratton, the former New York City Police Commissioner, who now runs a private consulting firm that sought to advise the South Africans on crime control. Indeed, on a half-hour tour of downtown Johannesburg in the company of a police official, I saw little evidence of a police presence. The most visible sign of authority was in a violence-ridden suburban slum where military troops manned roadblocks and my police escort rode with his gun unholstered.
The Government is approaching the problem with a long-term strategy to improve the training and professionalism of police and to develop effective interaction between police and communities that have long feared and hated the men in uniform. A business executive has been brought in to improve the management and allocation of resources, and consultants have helped some police stations overcome a shocking inability to keep their police and vehicles on patrol. At several stations I saw evidence that residents are beginning to support and help the police, even providing tips that help catch criminals. But it will all take time.
Meanwhile, some 5,000 new police officers and civilians are being hired, and the Government will focus additional police resources on Johannesburg and a few other high-visibility areas that have a disproportionate impact on the nation's image abroad. That could drain resources from some of the poor black areas that helped vote the Mandela Government into office. It could be a risky political choice, but it is one the Government feels it must take if South Africa's promising democratic revolution is to succeed. PHILIP M. BOFFEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ROBBERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); CARJACKING (88%); VEHICLE THEFT (79%); VIOLENT CRIME (79%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (79%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (79%); TRENDS (78%); SUBURBS (76%); SLUM DWELLINGS (75%); HIJACKING (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (74%); MURDER (74%); FIREARMS (72%); GUN CONTROL (72%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (66%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (55%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



606 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 8; Page 15; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Backtalk;
Seeking a Way to Win Athletes' Mind Games

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
So a week after college football (Big Boys Acting Badly) starts and in the middle of the United States Tennis Open (Brathood on Parade), here comes pro football (Fat Men Fighting). May we call this the Psycho Season?
"I wouldn't go that far," says the psychologist, speaking softly, picking his words carefully, "but there is no question that the competitive aspects are tightening; we demand more from our superstars and give them more." He picks up speed, speaking without punctuation. "The owners are stretched and need more money so they raise prices and the fans want to see a winner not someone kicked in the face and left on the ground for dead like they are every day of the week and I ask you where does it all start?" 
 He gives only a beat for my answer and, hearing none, plunges on, the cords in his neck taut, the blue headlights of his eyes on bright. "Now that is the mother of all questions," he snarls, "because it starts with the parents I'd like to kick the hell out of some of them especially after they dump their kid in my office and say, 'Fix her!'."
The psychologist, Jim Loehr, slips back into a relaxed slump, smiles, breaks the dry bagel he ordered into the "carbo-bites" he advises clients to snack on all day. "It's about balance. Little League, world class, it doesn't matter, you have to help people create some kind of sanity inside the nightmare field of forces."
The concession stands of Nightmare Field offer drugs, religion, sexual violence to help athletes fuel their competitive edge. In past years, teams have offered employee assistance programs for players with substance abuse problems. Intervention before the problem shows up on the scoreboard is a more recent trend.
Loehr was in town this week for the Open -- he has clients playing -- but he is being measured by his best-known current head case, John Daly. If the pro golfer can control his alcoholism and abusive behavior while regaining his world-class talent for the game, the psychologist will be able to raise his visibility in his nightmare field of the moment, the big-buck corporate asylum. Squads of stressed-out stockbrokers will not only pay the nut on LGE Sport Science, Loehr's health and training facility in Orlando, Fla., but subsidize what he calls his most important work: educating the parents of children for whom sports will never be a career, but will haunt or enhance them forever as the "dress rehearsal" for their "real lives."
Loehr, now 54, became a pioneer in hands-on sports psychology 22 years ago after running a conventional mental health clinic in his native Colorado. He was sick of dealing with the sick, especially since they were not getting better. His contempt for traditional long-term therapy seems both pragmatic and self-serving. In sports psychology, as in sports itself, the player, not the coach, takes ultimate responsibility, and recovery can be measured in putts and baskets sunk.
"Sure, talk out that gnarled ball of old garbage in your gut," Loehr says, "but don't dwell on it. Move on. Get better. And realize there's not a thing you can do about the system. The only thing you can change is yourself. "
In a conversation that began last month in Orlando and continued here last week, Loehr described himself as a good high school baseball pitcher pushed hard by his father. He was relieved when he hurt his arm bad enough to quit baseball and concentrate on tennis, which was less familiar to his father.
His experience would eventually inform some of his main psychological reference points. Many injuries, even in the pros, are in a sense self-inflicted or at least become ways of excusing failure; abusing alcohol and drugs is another way of avoiding a full commitment to the game. And then there's the Dad problem.
"So much seems to be about whether Dad has been able to keep the experience joyful, as Tiger's and Monica's seem to have done, or made the kids nervous, gave them guilt," Loehr says. His rangy body hunches, his face scrunches up, the voice coarsens. " 'I spend all this money, I give up my job, can't you at least practice, give it all you got?' "
Afraid of becoming that kind of father, Loehr never pressed his two older sons, Mike and Pat, to spend more time on their backyard tennis court. By the time they asked for his help, he says, it was too late; although good high school players, they had missed the early window in which motor skills are developed. By contrast, he worked from an early age with his youngest son, Jeff, who is now 23 and starting out on the pro tour.
Tennis was Loehr's first chance to use sports as "a laboratory to help people understand how to respond to life." He made a deal with an early client, Tom Gullikson, to exchange free psychological sessions for non-confidentiality; in effect, publicity for his counseling. Gullikson's ranking improved, and as a Davis Cup captain he became a credible endorser. Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, Jim Courier and Monica Seles followed. Tennis, of course, is a shrink's waiting room. Loehr is not the only psychologist who would have loved to try out his game inside John McEnroe's head.
Golf has begun to replace tennis as a public character test. We are watching Greg Norman struggle against pressure, Tiger Woods grow up, John Daly try to recover.
"People relate to John's weaknesses," Loehr says. "We all get beat up, we're all tempted, we slip into old destructive patterns. We'll love him if he gets his life together in the face of all that brutality. We'll take it as a signal that we can heal, too. But he'll have to win. Fans don't care about nice guys unless they win."
The brutalization of children by adults seduced by sports fame has become a recurring theme in Loehr's work. He finds himself torn by the image of Kerri Strug risking permanent injury in the 1996 Olympics to vault into America's heart and marketplace. He concedes that the decision she made -- if indeed it was a rational decision and not an attempt to please Coach Bela Karolyi -- had positive economic repercussions for her, but it sent a dangerous message to all the child gymnasts and the small-town coaches who push their buttons.
"Coaches understand the psyche all too well," Loehr says. "So many of them use love and guilt. Young men are manipulated by coaches who channel their fear into anger so they go out and bully the oppponent. They turn the player into a head case."
Bobby Knight of Indiana is Loehr's prototype "nightmare coach," and he looks askance at the posturings of Pat Riley and Phil Jackson. His "dream coach" is John Wooden, whom he believes allowed his U.C.L.A. basketball players a chance to develop as balanced human beings.
In Loehr's "contagious virus," a player gets hurt and loses confidence after the coach, the news media and the fans get down on him. In reaction, the player often performs poorly to punish his critics when only performing well can break the cycle and give him personal options, including being traded to another team. Loehr transposes this scenario into the pressure-packed, down-sized corporation.
Loehr and his partners, Jack L. Groppel, a nutritionist, and Pat Etcheberry, a fitness trainer, have developed programs for stockbrokers, law enforcement officers and business executives. Flattering them as the "real athletes" with no off seasons, a playing career 10 times longer than most pros and an even less forgiving culture, Loehr tests their medical and emotional health and offers plans for exercise, sleep, nutrition, mental toughness and positive thinking. Corporations, which generally pay the fees, are promised increased production from healthier, happier workers. The individual clients are captivated by the connections to their sports stars.
While a river of psychobabble runs through Loehr's books ("Stress for Success") and his $13,000-an-hour lectures ("growth occurs during recovery waves"), the talks also carry a bracing message -- you can make yourself better and winning is not the only thing.
"Winning is fantastic," lectures Loehr, "but it's not as important as what happened to you as a consequence of pursuing the goal. And so you don't win an Olympic gold medal. What's so terrible about that? It just puts you with all the rest of us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tennis has been the psychologist Jim Loehr's laboratory for helping athletes meld sport and the rest of their lives. He spoke last week with a tennis player he works with, Geoff Grant. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGISTS SPORTS (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); ATHLETES (78%); TENNIS (78%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (76%); GOLF (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); TRENDS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (62%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (62%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (62%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); SECURITIES BROKERS (50%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT; LOEHR, JIM

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



607 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Boxed In by Bias, Czech Gypsies Look to Canada

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: ROKYCANY, Czech Republic, Aug. 26

 BODY:
Stefan Miko has provided much of what his family needs in post-Communist life here: a good apartment, modern appliances, new clothes, a car.
But as a Gypsy with jet-black hair and olive skin, Mr. Miko -- who owns a small construction company -- cannot go to any of his local bars to have a beer, he said. His teen-age children are barred from the nearby disco, he said, and his 14-year-old son is afraid to start classes at a school for bricklayers for fear of being beaten up by skinheads. 
 The Mikos say they feel like prisoners in their homeland and are thinking of packing up and leaving for the West.
In a startling exodus -- one not prompted by war, revolution or famine -- more than 700 Czech Gypsies have fled to Canada in the last year and filed claims for asylum on grounds of racial discrimination, according to the Canadian authorities.
After a documentary on Czech television this month showed newly arrived Gypsies leading fruitful lives in Canada -- which has canceled visa requirements for Czech citizens -- many more Gypsies crammed the flights from Prague to Toronto. Airlines say that flights are sold out until October, and hostels in Toronto are filled with Czech Gypsies awaiting refugee status.
Human rights advocates in the Czech Republic, elsewhere in Europe and in the United States say that the Gypsies' flight illustrates the widespread lack of tolerance toward a minority that numbers about 200,000 in a population of 10 million.
There are significant numbers of Gypsies elsewhere in Central Europe. In Slovakia there are about 300,000 in a total population of five million. In Hungary, estimates range from 600,000 to 1 million in a population of 10 million.
In both of these countries, there are reports of widespread discrimination. In what is considered a landmark case in Hungary, a bar owner in the city of Pecs last month was ordered by a court to pay a fine of $750 and to take out newspaper advertisements apologizing for refusing to serve a Gypsy.
But the spotlight has fallen on the Czech Republic in the last several years, in large part because of citizenship laws introduced by the Czechs after the division of Czechoslovakia. The laws have had the effect of denying many poorly educated and impoverished Gypsies basic services like schooling and health care.
The Czech Prime Minister, Vaclav Klaus, rejected an appeal this week from Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, who after learning of the exodus to Canada urged the Czechs to revise their citizenship laws. After the Czech Republic and Slovakia split in 1993, the Czech Government made people re-register for citizenship. Requirements like those on length of residence and ancestry were seen as biased against Gypsies.
"This letter uses the same old arguments that the Government has encountered for four or five years," Mr. Klaus said.
The hostility to Gypsies -- who have been called the Romany people since they left India centuries ago and often call themselves Roma -- was clearly expressed by a Mayor in the eastern part of the Czech Republic. Seeing that large numbers of the town's Gypsies were selling their possessions to go to Canada, she offered to ease their way.
The Mayor, Liana Janackova, said the city of Ostrava would pay $600 toward the air fare of every Gypsy who wanted to go to Canada, provided the departing family handed its apartment over to the city. She justified her offer by saying it would be cheaper to pay Gypsies to leave than to continue to pay welfare benefits.
The plight of the Gypsies in the Czech Republic is easy to see in the statistics.
In a country where the unemployment rate is 4 percent -- the lowest in Europe -- about 70 percent of Gypsies are without work. In what critics see as a form of state-sanctioned segregation, about 80 percent of Gypsy children are sent to elementary schools for the mentally handicapped, which effectively means they cannot go on to any form of higher education.
Well-educated Czechs in top jobs freely concede that they would not want to live in the same neighborhood as Gypsies, saying they are shiftless and prone to crime.
This summer, two public pools in the Western part of the Czech Republic -- in Kladno and Kamenny Ujezd -- forbade Gypsies to swim there, said Ondrej Gina, a Gypsy who heads the Fund of Hope and Understanding, a community group financed by the Soros Foundation.
Mr. Gina, a former member of the Czechoslovak Parliament, estimated that 30 to 40 percent of Czech Gypsies were considering leaving.
"There is a large consensus by a mass of people that conditions are bad enough that they want to go," he said. He said that Gypsies were facing increasing violence from skinhead groups and that the police had failed to protect them.
The European Roma Rights Center in Budapest says that 35 Gypsies have been killed in Czechoslovakia or the Czech Republic in racially motivated attacks since 1989.
One of the tragedies of the exodus to Canada, Mr. Gina said, is that it threatens to take away some of the most valuable people, those with the money, self-esteem and the courage to go. Mr. Miko is an example.
"I'm well off," he said. "I have money but I can't use it because I don't have any rights." Mr. Miko, a muscular 40-year-old, talked as he sat at his kitchen table with two of his five children, Stefan, 21, and Gabriela, 18.
"My company works all over the region of western Bohemia, but when the workers get thirsty they can't get served in a bar," he complained. He said he wanted his son to go to a trade school in Rokycany. "But skinheads stand outside and they will prevent him from going in."
"How can I be sure my kid will be safe?" he said. "The school couldn't guarantee his safety and said he had to commute." But his children, including Stefan, were too scared to catch a train, he said, because in the confinement of a carriage they felt vulnerable to skinheads.
As immigration to Canada has picked up, Mr. Gina said he and other Gypsy leaders were pressing the Czech Government to give Gypsies equal protection under the law and eliminate discrimination.
For its part, Canada is trying to discourage newcomers by making it clear that luxurious living, high wages and assured jobs do not await asylum seekers, the Canadian charge d'affaires in Prague, Terence Mooney, said.
But if Canada no longer seems so attractive to Mr. Miko, other places do. Mr. Miko said a relative in her 50's had recently moved to Belgium with her husband and were happy there.
"We have no life here," he said. "The Minister of Interior was on television and said it would take three generations to change the attitude. We can't sit around waiting for three generations."

GRAPHIC: Photos: There has been an exodus of Gypsies from Prague since Canada canceled visa requirements for Czech citizens. Gypsy claims for asylum cite racial discrimination. A Gypsy boy kissed his sister goodbye at the airport as she left for Toronto. In Prague's Old Town, a Gypsy musician played his dulcimer. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse)
 
Map shows the location of Rokycany, Czech Republic: In Rokycany, long-reviled Gypsies cherish a dream of life in Canada.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (99%); CANADA (96%); EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CZECH REPUBLIC; CZECH REPUBLIC (99%); CANADA (96%); EUROPE (92%); HUNGARY (92%); SLOVAKIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

SUBJECT: GYPSIES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DISCRIMINATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); REFUGEES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (87%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TRENDS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); AIRLINES (72%); CITIZENSHIP (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); FAMINE (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE VACLAV KLAUS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



608 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Black Leaders Send Message To President Who's Nearby

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: EDGARTOWN, Mass., Aug. 30

 BODY:
The former Black Panther wondered why her son, a college graduate, was working in a supermarket. A justice's onetime accuser wondered why she saw so many Confederate flags in Oklahoma. And the law professor wondered how to keep people from withdrawing to islands -- metaphorical ones -- when faced with the subject of race.
These concerns were voiced within the white clapboard walls of the Old Whaling Church here on Friday night as 10 of the country's foremost black intellectuals led a sometimes measured and sometimes passionate, humorous or prickly discussion over whether and how to hold a national conversation about race. 
 The participants included Kathleen Cleaver, the former Black Panther; Anita Hill, whose testimony during the 1991 Supreme Court nomination hearings of Clarence Thomas started a national debate over sexual harassment, and Patricia J. Williams, an author and law professor at Columbia. But the man who is trying to lead that conversation during the next year, President Clinton, did not attend. His aides said that he was concerned about disrupting both the event and his own three-week vacation here on Martha's Vineyard.
"I'm not concerned that he's not here," said Prof. Charles J. Ogletree of Harvard Law School. "I'm concerned if he's not hearing."
But if Mr. Clinton eventually listens to the tape of the evening's debate that his aides said he would receive, he will hear a decidedly mixed message -- about his race initiative, about the state of black-white relations and about the economic and political condition of black Americans.
And that outcome clearly delighted the moderator, Henry Louis Gates Jr., the chairman of the Afro-American studies department at Harvard and director of the W. E .B. DuBois Institute for Afro-American Research, which organized the event, as well as similar ones in past years.
Martha's Vineyard is the setting for the annual panels, which have dealt with subjects like affirmative action, in part because of the island's history as an integrated resort, and in part because so many potential panelists unwind here. More than 400 people paid $50 to attend.
The air of privilege that pervaded the church clearly nagged at some of the participants, as did the uniformity of the panelists, all of whom were black and most of whom were Harvard academics. Ms. Williams, of Columbia, said she worried about "a sort of island -- and I don't mean Martha's Vineyard -- a sort of islanding of the conversation."
That same issue -- how to draw very different people into a productive discussion of race -- preoccupied another panelist, Ms. Hill. She said a conversation on race in Norman, Okla., where she lives, would be far different from the one here.
Ms. Hill said she saw many Confederate symbols near the license plates of pickup trucks in Norman. "I wonder what it is they are trying to say about race," she said of the drivers. "But how do we ever begin the process of asking those individuals that question?"
Ms. Cleaver, now a visiting professor at Cardozo School of Law, wondered how a discussion on race could take place when "Republican goon squads" were trying to bring back "not merely the symbols but the substance of white supremacy." She cited the return of chain gangs as an example.
Cornel West, the author and Harvard professor, addressed himself to the absent President when he heatedly declared: "The budget deal is the conversation on race, in part. Do not think you can balance the budget on the backs of working and poor people and then have a conversation on race on the side." Then he grinned and added, to laughter, "And I say that lovingly."
Orlando Patterson, a Harvard sociology professor, repeatedly rebutted those who argued that black Americans were losing ground. When Ms. Cleaver said that her son, a college graduate, was working in the deli of a Stop and Shop, Mr. Patterson shot back, "We can have this conversation on race by drawing on anecdotes, or we can have it by drawing on facts." He added, "The fact is that, now, today, the poverty rate among African-Americans is the lowest it has ever been."
Ms. Williams offered an illustration of how racism could seep into the lives of even successful blacks. She said her bankers had tried to stiffen her mortgage after they learned that she was black.
Ms. Williams said the bank had informed her that the reason the loan had become more expensive was that property values in her new neighborhood were suddenly falling. The reason they were supposedly declining, she deduced, was that she was moving in. Ms. Williams eventually got the mortgage on the original terms, but, she joked, she found herself hiding in her house, wondering "whether the very appearance of myself will diminish my collateral."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS LAW SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (54%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: WEST, CORNEL (PROF); OGLETREE, CHARLES J (PROF); GATES, HENRY LOUIS JR; WILLIAMS, PATRICIA J (PROF); PATTERSON, ORLANDO (PROF); CLEAVER, KATHLEEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



609 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Gubernatorial Understudy Steps to Center Stage

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Gone is the mercurial William F. Weld from the Governor's corner office on Beacon Hill. Gone is the glamorous Joseph P. Kennedy 2d from the much-anticipated 1998 gubernatorial contest, and Massachusetts political pundits, ever portentous, are proclaiming Mr. Kennedy's renunciation of the race an earthquake, a bombshell, a cataclysm.
And the lead man left standing in all this turmoil, polls indicated, was the solid, straight-shooting and -- it must be said, and often is -- comparatively dull Argeo Paul Cellucci, the longtime Lieutenant Governor who stepped up and took over from Mr. Weld. 
 The rest of the state political scene is shifting and swirling around Mr. Cellucci, a Republican. A raft of possible new contenders is said to be considering a run now that Mr. Kennedy is out, among them former Mayor Raymond Flynn of Boston, a Democrat. The other candidates, Attorney General L. Scott Harshbarger, a Democrat, and State Treasurer Joseph D. Malone, a Republican, were both happily proclaiming themselves to be beneficiaries of Mr. Kennedy's exit on Thursday.
But for Acting Governor Cellucci, the challenge is clear. His one-month-old incumbency is his audition for the governorship, and he must play his heart out to voters used to the captivating ways of Mr. Weld, who, restless, resigned to seek the ambassadorship to Mexico.
"I really want to focus on doing a good job," Governor Cellucci (pronounced sell-OO-chee) said in an interview in his new Statehouse office, with the soaring ceilings and pure silence accorded high executive power. "And whether I'm sitting up here for 18 months or for 6 years or for 10 years, I want to be able to look back and know that I got some things done that were of benefit to the people of Massachusetts.
"I also know," he added, "that if I do a good job, it will give me the credibility to be a competitive candidate next year."
Asked whether he had been struggling to come out from under Mr. Weld's shadow, Mr. Cellucci, who bears a striking resemblance to a clean-cut Robert DeNiro, mole and all, responded readily that "whether you're Vice President or Lieutenant Governor, there's always a stature gap."
"I'm now the Governor," he said, "and I'm certainly different from Bill Weld -- I think Bill is more from the head and I might be more from the heart," pronouncing it "haht" in an accent that bespeaks his rural Massachusetts hometown, Hudson, not the patrician Beacon Hill.
A 49-year-old lifelong politician who began his career on a town charter commission at the age of 22 and has never lost a race, Mr. Cellucci is also more of a hands-on public servant than Mr. Weld was, he said, happiest to focus on "how the day-to-day stuff of the government gets done," from consensus-building in the Legislature to budget balancing. He likes the "day-to-day work of government that isn't always sexy or exciting."
Mr. Weld kept a stuffed armadillo in the Governor's office; Mr. Cellucci has installed the office's first personal computer and replaced the armadillo with some wooden elephants. A portrait of James Michael Curley, the notorious "rascal king" of a Massachusetts Governor, that Mr. Weld had hung there has been replaced by one of John Volpe, a good administrator and one of two other Italian-American Governors.
In his first month in office, Mr. Cellucci has announced and pushed initiatives in three areas: overhauling education, cutting taxes and stemming domestic violence.
But his central task, he said, is to keep up the vigor of the Massachusetts economy, which suffered more in the recession beginning in the late 1980's and has rebounded more strongly in the recovery than the rest of the country.
For those already starting to yawn, there has been one scandalous blot on Mr. Cellucci's record: disclosures by The Boston Globe last year that he was carrying $70,000 in high-interest credit-card debt among a total debt of about $750,000.
That story received wide attention. But Mr. Cellucci noted stoically that no one seemed to notice much when he announced last September that he had paid off his credit cards.
In general, he said, the debt came from family expenses -- he has two daughters in college. "Every family has loans and bills and a mortgage on their home, as do I," he said. Nonetheless, he said, "as I indicated at the time, my assets exceed my liabilities."
Focused as he is on his current job, overseeing a budget of $18.4 billion and some 64,000 state employees, Governor Cellucci is reluctant these days to start campaigning actively. But Mr. Cellucci, whose main idiosyncrasy is such a powerful addiction to movies that he sometimes spends meetings with top legislators discussing them, offered a special sneak preview:
The continued economic health of the state will be pivotal in the election, he said, and "there's a compelling argument that, given the success we've had in the last seven years, a competitive two-party government has been good for Massachusetts."
That argument says it has worked to have a Republican Governor and a Legislature led by Democrats, and because the Legislature will stay Democratic, the Governor should be Republican.
Since the Weld-Cellucci team took office in 1991, the Governor said, unemployment has retreated to 3.9 percent from nearly 10 percent, the highest in the nation. The budget has been balanced, and the rainy day fund, once bankrupt, is up to about $850 million.
"This is working," Mr. Cellucci said. "Let's not go back to the monopoly of one party that led us to fiscal and economic disaster in this state."
In fact, it has been working so well that even Mr. Cellucci's Democratic colleagues in the Legislature praise him, if not with fire, then with respect.
"His word is good, which is very important," said Thomas F. Birmingham, president of the State Senate. "I don't mind a disagreement on policy matters, but I like to hear it straight, and he's been entirely straight so far, and that's the way it should be."
Thomas M. Finneran, the Speaker of the House, offered this comparison with Mr. Weld: "If Weld is a Renaissance man, Cellucci is Everyman. He's the grandson of immigrants; he worked his way through college and law school; he worked washing cars. That story can only occur in the United States of America."
But it remains to be seen whether it is a story powerful enough to win Mr. Cellucci the governorship in a race that Mr. Malone described as "very much like the job selection process, where you have to leave the interviewer with the best possible impression."
A poll ordered by The Boston Herald after Mr. Kennedy's announcement on Thursday found that at this point, Mr. Cellucci would beat Mr. Harshbarger, 44 percent to 39 percent. The margin of error was 5.7 percentage points.
Just four or five months ago, Mr. Cellucci was losing to Mr. Harshbarger, 42 percent to 27 percent, said R. Kelly Myers, a researcher at RKM Researchers, the company that did the poll.
"It's pure speculation what will happen between now and November of next year," he said. But Mr. Cellucci's "moving in to take over the reins early seems like it was a smart move. They pulled it off, and it seems to be working just as planned."
Now, said Jim Gorman, a Democratic political consultant and adviser to Mr. Harshbarger, the race is likely to settle down into a more normal seasonal rhythm, having lost the stars that heated it up so prematurely.
"It's normal people running for a normal office in a normal election," he said, with perhaps just a hint of relief.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Paul Cellucci of Massachusetts, left, spoke with Scott G. McNealy, the chairman of Sun Microsystems, on Thursday in Burlington, Mass. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; UNITED STATES (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT GOVERNORS (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MAYORS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: CELLUCCI, PAUL (GOV); WELD, WILLIAM F; GOLDBERG, CAREY ROBERT DE NIRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



610 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Job Programs Say They Need More Time

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

 BODY:
Officials at New York City's Comptroller's office were disturbed last spring when they scrutinized the 10 agencies that are paid about $2.24 million annually to place welfare recipients in jobs.
Several agencies running "job clubs," or work-readiness programs, were unable to meet a contract requirement that they find jobs for 20 percent of the welfare recipients in their four-week programs. One agency reported placing only 11 percent. 
 And the Federation Employment Guidance Service, an employment agency based in Manhattan, had decided not to renew its contract with the city altogether, saying it was impossible to find jobs for welfare recipients in only four weeks.
This summer, city officials decided to extend the agency contracts only through December, while they test new ways to get jobs for welfare recipients.
"We had concerns about whether job clubs in their present form are the best way to place people in jobs," said Renelda Higgins Walker, a spokeswoman for the Human Resources Administration, which administers the city's welfare program.
The job clubs are for those in workfare programs who have not found jobs, community college graduates and others. Participants write resumes, practice interview techniques and search for work.
After the program, the city assesses those who are still unemployed, sending them to workfare programs, basic education courses, English language classes or a combination.
But while the city requires the agencies to place a certain percentage of welfare recipients in jobs, the contracts do not actually define a job.
Agencies that place welfare recipients in two-week temporary jobs, or part-time jobs, for instance, receive the same placement credit and financing as those that find long-term, full-time ones.
Partly because city officials do not contact employers to verify placements, it is almost impossible to determine how many job club participants have actually found jobs. Of the nearly 8,000 women who have been assigned to the clubs so far, about 20 percent found work, city officials say.
All told, about 290,000 people have left the welfare rolls since 1995, said Anthony P. Coles, an adviser to the Mayor, who says most are now self-sufficient. But the city includes among its "documented job placements" anyone who has withdrawn a welfare application, been rejected for benefits or had their benefits reduced, even though it is unclear whether they actually found jobs, city officials say.
City officials declined to discuss the strategies publicly, but one, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said administrators were trying to extend the length of the program, to allow recipients more time to prepare for the job market and to search for work.
Until this year, the job club programs lasted up to two months. But new Federal laws, which require that 25 percent of all welfare recipients work in 1997, limit job search time to four consecutive weeks. Those who take longer to find jobs cannot be counted toward meeting the strict work participation rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (66%); 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL L

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



611 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Seeking More Influence Over Education

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
As vacations end and 52 million students return to school, their elders find themselves in a historic tug of war pitting the traditional local control of education against a growing national presence that is making Washington a bigger player in education now than at perhaps any other time in the nation's history.
When Congress convenes in September, President Clinton will try to win support for the first truly national performance tests in the schools, and Republicans in Congress will mobilize to kill the initiative. 
 In a radio address yesterday in which he promoted his testing plan, the President said he was encouraged by a report on long-term trends that showed student improvement in some subjects. [Page 18]
Republicans and a few Democrats will push for proposals to increase vouchers and school choice, a California Congressman will argue for a bill designed to upgrade teaching by linking Federal aid to improved state teaching standards, and other issues like national reading initiatives and development of a national curriculum will receive enormous attention.
Experts disagree on how much of what is happening reflects a long-term shift toward greater Federal involvement or is a result of a historical moment: a politically adroit President intensely focused on education, aging baby boomers who have made education a leading national issue and an absence of competing issues.
And some of the same factors are making education issues equally contentious at the local level, as evidenced by the election-year scrapping in New York City between Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and a Democratic challenger, Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan, over who is responsible for classroom overcrowding.
But experts say that educational issues, traditionally the province of state and local officials, have become national ones to an unusual extent. Indeed, both supporters of an expanded national presence in education and those who decry it seem equally willing for now to use the power and bully pulpit of Washington to further their agendas.
"This is a country that is trying very hard to figure out how to do something no nation on earth has done before, which is to have national standards without a national ministry of education, and the competing pressures are just enormous," said Marc Tucker, president of the National Center on Education and the Economy, which has helped develop voluntary national standards. "It's changed education from an issue that national politicians wouldn't touch with a 10-foot pole to one they feel they can't afford to be silent on."
Secretary of Education Richard W. Riley said the Administration respected the degree to which the power to run America's schools is and should be based at the state and local levels. But as education becomes increasingly critical to the nation's economic future, he said, improving student achievement must be seen as "a state responsibility, a local function and a Federal priority."
"I'm a former Governor and the President is a former Governor, and we have complete respect for the state and local role in education," Mr. Riley continued. "But this is the education era, and the future of the country is dependent on the ability of children to master the basics and get a good education."
But critics, particularly conservatives, say Mr. Clinton's approach, and especially his proposal for voluntary national tests developed by the Federal Government of fourth-grade reading and eighth-grade mathematics represents an unwarranted growth of Federal power.
"Once you have the Federal Government saying what children should know, the next step is to prepare the teachers to teach to those new standards," said Representative Bill Goodling, Republican of Pennsylvania, who is chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. "What we're seeing now is the next big step in the federalization of elementary and secondary education."
The United States has one of the most decentralized education systems in the world, and for all the wind blowing from Washington, the money and power still reside largely in state governments and local school districts. Only 7 percent of the nation's education spending comes from the Federal Government.
But, just as he made education a central focus of his tenure as Governor of Arkansas, President Clinton has focused as compulsively on the nation's schools as any President in history. That attention, along with the growth of education to a position near the top of most polls of subjects of national concern, has meant that Washington is no longer a bystander on most education issues.
Mr. Goodling has vowed to attach an amendment to the House Appropriations bill that would prohibit the Administration from going ahead with its proposed national tests.
He and other critics say the tests would be a $90 million waste of money and an unwarranted step toward a national curriculum, but proponents say it would allow states, schools and parents to spur achievement and gauge how their students are doing compared with national standards.
In his radio address, Mr. Clinton insisted the tests were needed and said he wanted an independent bipartisan board already created by Congress to develop and administer them. He said that would insure that the tests would not represent an expansion of Federal power.
"High standards are essential to providing our children the best education in the world, and I intend to do whatever is necessary to make sure we move forward," he said.
Existing tests either are not based on common national standards or, like the National Assessment of Educational Progress, the best national benchmark, are given to samplings of students and provide only broad national data, not results for individual schools or students.
Clinton Administration officials say they have the authority to go ahead with the tests with or without Congressional authorization, but they are mobilizing their forces to defeat Mr. Goodling's amendment.
Congress is also likely to vote on a school-voucher bill whose sponsors include Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, and Senator Daniel R. Coats, Republican of Indiana; the House majority leader, Dick Armey, a conservative from Texas; and Representative Floyd H. Flake, Democrat of Queens. The bill would create a scholarship fund that would enable 2,000 low-income Washington students to go to the private or parochial school of their choice. While the bill would specifically affect only Washington, a main purpose, sponsors say, would be to stimulate further national debate on vouchers for low-income students.
"It will force us as a nation to confront the palpable anger many parents in urban areas are feeling and force the education establishment to tell these poor families who simply want the best for their children why they can't have the same choice in education that most middle-class and upper-class families already enjoy," a spokesman for Mr. Lieberman said in a statement.
Similarly, Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, following the recommendations of a national commission on the nation's teaching force, has introduced legislation that would require states receiving Federal education financing to set clear standards for teacher quality and help schools recruit and train better teachers.
And Republicans are likely to offer an alternative to Mr. Clinton's proposed America Reads tutoring initiative and offer their competing vision of how to improve reading skills.
These issues and others are striking evidence of a historic national focus on education. From the G.I. Bill after World War II to the Great Society programs of President Lyndon B. Johnson, to the development of special education and Title I financing for low-income students in the 1970's, education issues have cropped up in Washington.
But education historians say those periods did not see the sustained national attention that the current education-reform movement has had for more than a decade, beginning with the Education Department's landmark "A Nation at Risk" report in 1983, which said the nation's economic future was imperiled by a declining school system.
Education experts say there are many reasons for this sustained attention. There is Mr. Clinton's longstanding interest in education at a time when peace and prosperity and a comparative relative absence of compelling national issues has given it unusual visibility. There is the maturing of baby boomers into parents obsessed with their children's schools. Perhaps most of all there is the widespread sense that the economic prospects of children and the nation are dependent on an educational system that is not performing well enough. Given those factors, it was inevitable for politicians in Washington to assert their influence now, some experts say.
"If you've got a hammer, everything looks like a nail, and if you're a politician in Washington, the natural tendency is to use the power you've got," said Frank Newman, director of the Education Commission of the States.
Mr. Newman said a proper balance could be struck between national leadership and local control as expressed in the dictum that efforts toward common standards or tests would be national and voluntary, not Federal and mandatory.
But whether that balance can be achieved is anyone's guess.
David Tyack, an education professor at Stanford University, said that in some ways the intense global competition for educational achievement created pressure for a concerted response from Washington.
"There's so much pressure to think internationally, to compare ourselves to other nations, to look at a much smaller, more interdependent world, and that almost demands a national response," Mr. Tyack said. "But that goes against the deeply ingrained distrust of a centralized government, especially in education. There's a fascinating tension playing out that will take a long time to resolve itself."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "AT ISSUE: Test Scores: A Regional Disparity"
A recent assessment of long-term trends in student performance shows improvement in some subjects but not in others over two decades. It also shows a continuing disparity among parts of the country. Graph compares percentages of 13-year-old students in the Northeast, Central, West, and Southeast with mathematics scale scores at or above 250.* It also compares percentages of 9-year-old students in each region with reading scale scores at or above 250.+ Figures are provided for 1978, 1986, 1990 and 1996. (Source: National Center for Education Statistics)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); HISTORY (78%); CURRICULA (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MAYORS (76%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); AGING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); SCHOOL CHOICE (69%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



612 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Survey Gives Students Mixed Scores

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
American students over the last two decades have shown significant progress in science and mathematics, a generally flat performance in reading and declines in high school writing, according to the latest assessment of long-term trends in the nation's schools.
On the positive side, students are taking harder courses in mathematics and more advanced placement courses over all. On the negative side, they do not do much homework, with a third of 17-year-olds saying they do not have any homework or do not do any. 
 While President Clinton and Congressional Republicans fight over proposed nationwide tests, results from the existing ones show that the road to educational progress is long and convoluted, and that many nuances go into making sense of the test results.
On Saturday, the Education Department's National Center for Education Statistics released the latest version of its long-term trend assessment: analyses of tests in science, mathematics, reading and writing given to 9-, 13-, and 17-year-old students since the early 1970's.
Secretary of Education Richard W. Riley stressed the progress in math and science and said areas with less progress underscored the need for a voluntary national test to spur student achievement at pivotal stages in their educational development: fourth grade, in reading, and eighth grade, in math.
The existing national tests given by the Government, the National Assessment of Educational Progress tests, are not broken down for individuals or schools.
"The results of these tests tell us that our nation's schools are consistently doing a better job in teaching match and science at every age level tested," Mr. Riley said. "Reading scores are stable, which is not good enough. We can do better. And high school juniors need to take their writing skills much more seriously if they expect to do college-level work."
Still, as officials admit, the data are difficult to interpret simply. Results are complicated by changes in demographics, varying patterns of progress or stagnation and tantalizing trend lines that do not provide definitive information.
Experts say the math and science results reflect in part the focus on those subjects after a 1983 report, "A Nation at Risk," which said lagging educational performance was imperiling the nation's economic future. The math results provide the clearest signs of progress. For example, in 1978, 20 percent of 9-year-olds were proficient in adding, subtracting, multiplying and dividing whole numbers. In 1996, the figure was 30 percent. For 13-years-olds, the percentage increased to 79 percent from 65 percent.
The level of comparable proficiency for reading showed increases only to 18 percent from 16 percent for 9-year-olds, and to 61 percent from 58 percent for 13-year-olds. Although 89 percent of 11th graders wrote at that level of proficiency in 1984, only 83 percent did in 1996.
Marshall Smith, the Acting Deputy Secretary of the Education Department, said the figures reflected different degrees of emphasis on different subjects, and, to some degree, the changing racial and ethnic character of the nation's schools, with many immigrants coming from non-English-speaking countries. He said, however, that the disappointing trends for reading and writing applied to whites as well as minorities. In 1982, 81 percent of the nation's students were white. The percentage has since fallen to 71 percent.
Some officials say that the improvements in math and science and the steady scores in reading reflect a significant achievement at a time when students have become substantially poorer and increasingly non-white, with their numbers including many more students for whom English is a second language.
But most educators and business leaders argue that changes in the economy and international competition make past achievement levels inadequate for today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CENTER GROUP DIV (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; MATHEMATICS; READING AND WRITING SKILLS MATHEMATICS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TRENDS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); STATISTICS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); 

PERSON: RILEY, RICHARD W (SEC); APPLEBOME, PETER BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



613 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Sharpton Says Brutality Issue Will Propel Him to a Victory

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
The Rev. Al Sharpton said yesterday that the large turnout at the march on Friday protesting the alleged assault of Abner Louima by the police was a sign of his own rising political strength, and that outrage about the incident would carry him to victory in the Democratic primary on Sept. 9.
Mr. Sharpton, who marched with Mr. Louima's family to City Hall and gave one of the more spirited addresses at the demonstration, said that the official police estimate of 7,000 marchers was deliberately low. Mr. Sharpton, speaking at the weekly rally at his offices in Harlem, put the turnout at 15,000, and said the enthusiasm prefaced a changing political climate that would become evident on primary night. 
 "They come back and talk about 7,000," Mr. Sharpton said, a mocking tone in his voice. "See, on Election Night, they can't get away with that, because we're going to count for ourselves."
"I want to thank Sal and Ruth for getting me in shape," Mr. Sharpton continued. "And then it's going to be me and Rudy, down to the main bout."
Mr. Sharpton was referring to two of his opponents in the Democratic primary: Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, and Sal F. Albanese, a City Councilman from Brooklyn. Both candidates also marched on Friday, but drew much less atention than Mr. Sharpton.
Ms. Messinger had no public campaign events on her schedule yesterday. Mr. Albanese walked and shook hands across neighborhoods in Queens, seeking to draw attention to what he sees as one of his main political strengths: his appeal to people living outside Manhattan.
About 10 volunteers escorted Mr. Albanese around Sunnyside. But his main escort was Peter O'Donnell, a member of Community Board 2 and Community Council 108, who carried a walking cane and sang Mr. Albanese's praises to the neighborhood.
"This is Sal Albanese," he said in a brogue to passers-by. "Give him a chance. Pull the lever on Sept. 9. He's the best."
At one point, Mr. Albanese seemed concerned that his charming escort might be stealing the show. "That's Albanese, not O'Donnell, for mayor," the candidate said.
Mr. Sharpton, in his speech, asserted that the success of the march proved that the issues around which he had framed his candidacy from the start -- police brutality and unemployment -- were now defining the campaign as it entered its last days. He said his opponents were trying now to come on board, but Mr. Sharpton said it was too late.
"It is not just police brutality," he said. "When I came in the race, we were the ones that raised the question of unemployment. They were not talking about it. They were not discussing it. Look at the record."
Mr. Sharpton devoted as much time at the rally yesterday to criticizing the Mayor as his Democratic opponents, clearly enjoying the difficult position that the march had put Mr. Giuliani in because of the Republican Mayor's close identification with the Police Department.
He took note of the fact that so far in the campaign, Mr. Giuliani had routinely ignored him -- Mayor Giuliani's aides have acknowledged that the Mayor has instructed them not to respond to anything Mr. Sharpton says -- but Mr. Sharpton said that would soon change.
"You're been running from me for the last four years," Mr. Sharpton said, his voice swelling as the crowd responded with shouts of "Amen!"
Then, giving a preview of the speech that Mr. Sharpton presumably expects to give after the primary, he continued: "But now it's me and you, Rudy, and I'm going to whip you all over town!"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; ELECTION ISSUES; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); MAYORS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CITIES (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); RIOTS (73%); WALKING & JOGGING (69%); 

PERSON: SHARPTON, AL (REV); MESSINGER, RUTH W (BORO PRES); ALBANESE, SAL F (COUNCILMAN) ; HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE AL SHARPTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



614 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-13
 
Diana Dies in Accident In Tunnel by the Seine
Diana, the Princess of Wales, died after a car accident in Paris that also killed Emad Mohammed al-Fayed, who was the Harrods heir and her companion recently, and the car's driver. A bodyguard was injured. The crash occurred while photographers on motorcycles were pursuing the car, the authorities said. 1
 
Migrant Flow Overstated
The first formal migration study to be sponsored by the American and Mexican Governments found that the number of undocumented Mexican workers who have settled in the United States in the 1990's is far lower than some politicians have suggested, only about 105,000 a year. 1 

Limerick Rising From Ashes
The Irish city of Limerick at first felt ridiculed by the memoir, "Angela's Ashes," but now people there seem to agree that the book is talking about an unlamented past of poverty, and not the Limerick of today. 1
 
Asian Economies Rocked
After gyrations in stock and currency markets, some experts are wondering how secure the foundation is under the Asian economic miracle. 6
 
Accusations Precede Albright
Palestinians and Israelis exchanged more bitter accusations ahead of a visit by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, who will try to bring the peace talks "back from the abyss," a spokesman said. 11
 
Rioting in Belfast
There was rioting in West Belfast, but officials said it would not affect the decision to invite the Irish Republican Army's political arm to take part in peace talks. 13
 
NATIONAL 14-23
 
School Issues Moving To National Arena
Experts say educational issues are becoming national in scope to an unusual extent. President Clinton plans to try to win support for the first truly national performance tests in schools, and Congressional Republicans will try to stop him. 1
 
The latest national assessment of student performance found gains in math and science, but reading scores stayed about the same. 18
 
Baptist Leader Under Siege
As the National Baptist Convention U.S.A. Inc. holds its annual meeting, it is facing the question of whether its leader, the Rev. Henry J. Lyons, should resign because of allegations of financial improprieties. 14
 
New Politics in Massachusetts
With the resignation of William F. Weld, the new Governor, Paul Cellucci, is getting a chance to audition for Massachusetts voters. 14
 
No. 1 Ranking Is No Blessing
Students, administrators and alumni are upset about a ranking of the University of West Virginia as the nation's top party school, saying it unfairly perpetuates negative stereotypes about their state. 14
 
New Tactics in Bombing Case
Terry L. Nichols faces the same murder and conspiracy charges as Timothy J. McVeigh in the Oklahoma City bombing, but the case against him is quite different. 16
 
Florida Crops at Risk
After battling the Mediterranean fruit fly, Florida agriculture officials are confronting a tomato plant virus and citrus canker. 18
 
NEW YORK/REGION 25-30
 
A Billion Dollars Dedicated to Clean Water
Cities across the nation are developing programs to prevent pollution of drinking water at its source, but nothing approaches the magnitude of the cleanup that has just begun in the 2,000 square miles of hills and river valleys funneling water to the eight million people of New York City. 1
 
Jobs Elude Welfare Mothers
New York City is pushing thousands of welfare mothers into the job market for the first time in years. But while nearly 8,000 women are pounding the pavement, the vast majority fail to find work, officials say. 1
 
OBITUARIES 31
 
Diana, Princess of Wales
The former wife of Prince Charles and the mother of the future king of England was 36. Diana was a teen-ager when she was thrust into the world spotlight through her relationship to Prince Charles and their 1981 marriage, which ended in divorce last year. She became one of the world's most glamorous women at the same time that she pursued humanitarian causes. 31
 
Emad Mohammed al-Fayed
The heir to the Harrods fortune was 41. Mr. al-Fayed, the eldest son of Mohammed al-Fayed, the owner of Harrods of Knightsbridge, dabbled in film production. 31
 
Weather 32
 
Styles 33-36
 
Weddings 36-38
 
TV Update 38

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); ISRAEL (79%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); ISRAEL (79%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); RANKINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); MURDER (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); RIOTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); MATHEMATICS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (69%); ACADEMIC TESTING (69%); GRADES & GRADING (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (61%); RELIGION (61%); CROP DISEASE (60%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (60%); CITRUS GROVES (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); CURRENCIES (52%); 

PERSON: PRINCESS DIANA (73%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



615 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2077 words

HEADLINE: In Bronx Club, Welfare Mothers Prepare for Jobs, and Then Wait

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

 BODY:
Linda Bailey walked nervously into the world of work, smoothing the wrinkles in her cream pants suit, fiddling with the pearls around her neck, reading and rereading her crisp new resume and imagining that she belonged in the crush of professional women in midtown Manhattan.
Then she swung back to reality and her brittle confidence cracked. 
 The suit was the only one she owned. The two dollars in her wallet had to last for two days. She had promised her sons 50-cent ice creams and the world "once Mommy has work." But Ms. Bailey has not worked in eight years. Ms. Bailey is on welfare. And on days like these, she fears she will never escape the dole.
"Sometimes I think these people got all the jobs," said Ms. Bailey, 33, dazed by the throngs of workers shoving past as she hawked her resume from office to office. "Will there be any jobs for me?"
New York City is pushing thousands of anxious welfare mothers into the job market for the first time in years, sending them to job readiness programs to learn to dress professionally, to write resumes, to give an employer a firm, confident handshake and to believe in the prospect of financial independence and newfound self-respect.
But while the four-week programs, known as job clubs, have already sent nearly 8,000 women to pound the pavement with resumes and newly fired dreams, the vast majority of these women fail to find work, city officials say. Of the 13 women who participated in a Bronx job club with Ms. Bailey last month, 3 found jobs to push them off the welfare rolls. Ms. Bailey was not among them.
One year after the passage of the landmark Federal welfare law, the experiences of the women in the Bronx job club reflect the challenges confronting states as they struggle to move welfare recipients with little education and little work experience into jobs.
Most states offer job readiness programs for welfare recipients and some have demonstrated marked success. But until recently, New York City has focused more on placing women in six-month workfare assignments, where they work for their benefits, than on programs to place them directly in permanent jobs.
But this strategy has been criticized for simply shuttling some welfare mothers from workfare assignments to job clubs and back. And this summer, as the City Comptroller's office reported faltering job placement rates at several clubs, city officials decided to extend the contracts of the private agencies that run the programs only through December, while they consider a new plan.
"The problem was that job clubs were expending government money and people weren't getting jobs," Alan G. Hevesi, the City Comptroller, said. "But the city is in the process of developing different models that will provide much better results. We are encouraged."
But while the city ponders, the clock ticks inexorably toward the day when the Bronx women and millions of others will lose benefits for good. Under Federal law, welfare recipients can receive public assistance for only five years in a lifetime. And as time passes, the unanswerable question echoes with increasing urgency:
When the deadline hits, will the women on welfare be working?
The task is formidable. In New York City, where about 200,000 welfare mothers must find work by the five-year deadline, more than half lack high school diplomas. Unemployment is nearly double the national average. Welfare mothers have only four weeks in job clubs. A cumbersome city bureaucracy sometimes leaves them without their child-care checks.
Ms. Bailey, for instance, had to give her baby sitter milk and eggs instead of cash last month while she waited for her $304 child-care check.
Of course, some women stumbled on roadblocks of their own making. Mary Frantzis, 49, who reluctantly accepted a job at a thrift shop, quit two days after she was hired.
"You got to stand all day and hang up clothes," she complained. "I said, 'To hell with that.' "
But most of the 14 women who filed into the job club in the red-brick building on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx last month were desperate for work.
For Josie Cuello, the 30-year-old daughter of working immigrants from the Dominican Republic, finding a job would mean an end to four years of shame. She earned an associate's degree this past spring in business administration. But nothing eased her sense of disgrace.
"I want out," Ms. Cuello said fiercely. "This is not a way of life."
For Adriana Perdomo, 31, who had spent nine years on welfare, finding work would mean she could hold her head high when her older brother, a construction worker, asked yet again, "Why don't you just get a job?"
And for Denise Sullivan, 38, a job would mean never having the lights cut off in her apartment, never having to plead for milk at the local food pantry and, perhaps, the chance to buy tiny luxuries for her three girls.
"They see the gold earrings in the stores and say, 'Mommy, look, they glitter,' " said Ms. Sullivan, who has been on welfare for 10 years. "Gold earrings, the ones that don't turn green every three months. That would mean everything to them."
But as the women masked their private dreams with shy smiles, many voiced fears that the job club, like the workfare programs many had participated in, would lead nowhere.
Ms. Bailey, the daughter of a retired construction worker, had applied for a job at the city's Department of Transportation, where she had spent six months as a workfare worker. But she ended up right where she started: unemployed and on welfare. "They gave us false hopes," Ms. Bailey said, referring to workfare officials.
"We'll be right back where we started," said Ms. Perdomo, another former workfare worker.
Audrey Stewart, the job club coordinator, hushed their chatter and passed out copies of the welfare reform law that has changed their lives. "Welfare reform is here, ladies," Ms. Stewart said briskly. "Are you going to find jobs so you can take care of yourselves? Or are you going to stay on the system and be stuck four years from now?"
 
Learning Tricks Of Job-Search Trade
With her sunglasses perched on her blond hair, Ms. Bailey looked her imaginary interviewer dead in the eye. "I'm a hard worker," she said. "I'm friendly. I'm dependable. I'm a fast learner. When I was working in the schools, I was there every day on time." Her voice faded as she considered her work as vice president of the parent-teacher association at her son's school.
Then she added hastily, "And whenever somebody needed me, I was there and I stayed late."
Her colleagues cheered. It was mid-July and the 14 women had just spent two weeks at the job club run by Goodwill Industries of Greater New York, learning the tricks of the job-search trade.
Women with baby-sitting jobs wrote "child care provider" on their resumes. Those with long gaps between jobs typed up resumes without dates. And together they practiced answering 16 tough interview questions, like "Why have you been out of work so long?" "Tell me about yourself" and "Why should we hire you?"
"Never stop believing in yourselves, ladies," said Grace Velez, the job club instructor, as she prepared them for their last two weeks of the program, the actual search for work.
Ms. Velez had reason to be hopeful. Of the 14 women participating in the workshop, only 2 lacked high school diplomas. One had a bachelor's degree and three others had associate's degrees.
Under its contract with the city, Goodwill had to place at least three of the women in jobs. The agency would ultimately meet that goal. But even with an unusually well-educated group, the agency would not manage to push more women into full-time work.
Ms. Velez urged the women to consider even low-wage jobs. But with little sense of their qualifications, the women often sought jobs beyond their reach. Ms. Cuello dreamed about working in an investment bank. Ms. Perdomo, who had no training on computers, wanted a job as an executive secretary.
At a time when Wall Street and high-technology firms produce many of the city's new jobs, and when service-oriented companies favor applicants with some college education, the options for low-skilled women on welfare are limited, economists say.
But the women knew none of this. And as they finished their training, even the toughest skeptics began dreaming about working in the gleaming skyscrapers of Manhattan, just visible from the job club windows.

Looking for Work And Finding Failure
The recruiter peered at the resume, nodding as her eyes rolled down the neat, crisp sheet. Bilingual. Receptionist. Child-care provider. Typing, 70 words per minute.
"Can you take a test?" the woman asked. "A typing test on the computer?"
Ms. Perdomo froze.
"Ay, Dios mio," she thought. "Oh my God. Not on computer. I don't know computer."
"Yes," she said finally, managing a small smile. "Of course."
Twenty minutes later, the test was over and the recruiter at the employment agency in Manhattan was steering Ms. Perdomo away from secretarial work and suggesting a job in the stockroom at Sears.
"That's a first step," Ms. Perdomo said hopefully. "They said they'll call and let me know."
But Sears never called. No one called. And next month, Ms. Perdomo will rejoin the workfare force.
"I'm going in circles," she said bitterly. "Circles that have no end."
And so the stories unfolded. The women scoured the Yellow Pages and the classified ads, blackening their fingers with newspaper ink. They borrowed skirts and jackets from friends and relatives, tailoring them with safety pins and tightly clasped belts.
But no matter how well dressed they were and no matter how well they glossed over the gaps in their resumes, the response was still the same: You need more experience.
In the Bronx, Ms. Sullivan was losing hope. Her father, a retired military man, had just died. Her food stamps had run out. And her three girls were sitting at the kitchen table, eating grits and liver, the last of the food in the house.
But her dying father had told her, "Don't you give up." And she thought about that when her head lay heavy against the pillow. She thought about her girls. She thought about winter coming. "I have to save $5 every two weeks," she reminded herself. "So when it gets cold they have new boots."
In the end, Ms. Sullivan refused to take time off to mourn her father. She filled out nearly a dozen job applications. But she did not find a job. In September, she will be assigned a workfare position. And this winter, her daughters will squeeze into last year's boots.
Ms. Cuello called hundreds of companies, polishing her routine with each conversation. But as the weeks passed, she began to fear she would never find what she wanted. Who could compete, she wondered, with the legions of experienced workers?
But as she slumped on her couch weary with frustration, her 8-year-old son looked into her worried eyes and said, "Don't worry, Mommy. I'm going to find a job."
"No, you won't," said Ms. Cuello, newly determined. "I will."
This month, she found one. She now weighs gold bracelets and necklaces for a company that sells jewelry to department stores. She says her boss, who pays $8 an hour, was impressed by her associate's degree in business administration.
This fall, she will leave the welfare rolls and take college courses at night, this time moving toward a bachelor's degree. "I'm not giving up," said Ms. Cuello, who still dreams of working as a stockbroker. "I'm going to make it."
Ms. Bailey, who spent weeks trying to figure out what went wrong, is still on welfare. But when she walked through the supermarket recently, the store manager offered her a part-time job. And she accepted.
Her first paycheck in eight years was not enough to take her sons to the amusement park, but the $20 was enough to cover dinner at McDonald's. "Now I don't feel like a failure anymore," she said.
But last week, the supermarket closed. And Ms. Bailey, who had worked for only three weeks, was back to the business of searching for work.
Ms. Bailey still talks about casting off the shame of government charity. But her brush with the job market has convinced her that the future may hold only short-lived, low-wage jobs that promise no insurance, no security and no way off welfare.
"Finding a full-time job, a real job to get me off welfare," said Ms. Bailey, shaking her head. "Now, that's going to be really hard."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Linda Bailey, 33, seeking job leads in a work-readiness program. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Denise Sullivan with her children, from left, Atrellia, 15, Antoinette, 3, and Alexandria, 5. Ms. Sullivan did not take time off from her recent job search to mourn the death of her father. But she has not found work. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LABOR; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WOMEN; STATES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); WOMEN (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (73%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL L

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



616 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-MEXICO STUDY SEES EXAGGERATION OF MIGRATION DATA

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 30

 BODY:
The first formal migration study to be sponsored by the American and Mexican Governments has concluded that the number of undocumented Mexican workers who have settled in the United States in this decade is far lower than some politicians have suggested, only about 105,000 a year.
Drawn from a two-year analysis of American and Mexican census and other data, the figure is the first authoritative estimate of the net annual flow of illegal Mexican workers into the United States, which has been an elusive statistic at the center of political and academic dispute on both sides of the border. 
 During the last Presidential campaign in the United States, some conservatives made immigration a powerful issue, with lurid portrayals of an America overrun by illegal Mexicans, a million of whom were said to pour across the border each year, taking jobs from Americans and driving up welfare costs.
The new estimate appears alongside a series of other groundbreaking conclusions in a new Binational Study on Migration. The document was commissioned by Presidents Clinton and Ernesto Zedillo in early 1995 and brought together 20 prominent demographers and scholars -- 10 Mexican and 10 American -- for two and a half years of research, field work and analysis.
"No controversy ever really ends, so it would be ingenuous for us to think this will resolve all the disputes over migration," said Francisco Alba Hernandez, a demographer at the Colegio de Mexico who took part in the study. "But this is our attempt to arrive at the most reasonable overview."
The study was circulated Friday to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, Attorney General Janet Reno, Foreign Minister Jose Angel Gurria of Mexico and other senior officials; it is to be made public Tuesday. A contributor to the study provided The New York Times with its executive summary and key chapters.
Migration is one of the most contentious issues dividing the countries, and for three decades each Government has molded policies to suit its own needs. The joint study is part of a shift toward increased cooperation, officials said.
"We have focused on protection of migrants' rights," Mr. Gurria said in a recent interview, "and you in the United States have focused on containment, meaning stopping them with physical obstacles or more agents or whatever. Now we're trying to find common interests, to develop a few common approaches, and just deciding how we are going to manage our differences over the things we cannot agree upon."
Among the study's conclusions were these:
*Migrant workers in the United States, both legal and undocumented, most of whom in the past have returned to homes in Mexico at least once a year, are tending to stay longer north of the border. "The rate of back-and-forth movement seems to be slowing," the study concludes.
*The average income of Mexican migrants has dropped in this decade. In 1996, 11 percent of recently arrived families headed by a Mexican-born person had incomes below $5,000, as against 5.5 percent in 1990.
*Mexican migrants are no more likely to receive welfare than poor Americans. But many local governments pay more in services to Mexican-born households than they receive in taxes, largely because the migrants, earning little, pay little. The largest expense is education.
*The most important direct result of the migration is the money that migrants send home to Mexico, estimated at $2.5 billion to $3.9 billion each year. That is the equivalent of about half the direct foreign investment in Mexico, the study says.
*The migration's primary beneficiaries are the migrants themselves, as well as American business people, farmers and consumers. The American economy grows through employment and consumption generated by the migration.
If the study itself is a sign of the two Governments' increasing willingness to work together on migration, sharp differences remain. Just last week, for instance, the United States began the latest in a series of border crackdowns, this one focused on channeling hundreds of new Border Patrol agents to the lower Rio Grande Valley, where many migrants have recently been crossing.
The Mexican Government reacted angrily, convening an urgent meeting of its border-based consular officials in San Antonio to discuss ways of protecting migrants. About 80 migrants have died this year trying to cross the border in the desert and other remote areas as a result of toughened American enforcement in border cities and towns.
If the latest disagreement focuses on American enforcement tactics, migration statistics themselves have been just as hotly disputed in recent years.
The Mexican-born population living in the United States numbers 7 million to 7.3 million, of whom 4.7 million to 4.9 million are legal residents and 2.3 million to 2.4 million are "unauthorized residents," the study says.
In the 1980's, some American demographers said the number of undocumented Mexicans living in the United States was far higher; one influential study put the figure at 5 million to 6 million, said Jeffrey S. Passell, a demographer at the Urban Institute in Washington.
Even more vigorously argued in the 1990's, however, have been estimates of the annual growth in the population of Mexican illegal aliens living in the United States. This figure has been especially difficult to estimate because neither country has any direct way to measure the flow of migrants illegally crossing the border.
Apparently using extrapolations of the law enforcement detention figures, politicians who made immigration a major issue in the 1996 Presidential campaign -- including Pete Wilson, California's Governor, and Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator -- suggested that the population of undocumented Mexicans in the United States was exploding. Mr. Buchanan implied that it was growing by a million or more a year.
In a 1993 op-ed article in The Washington Times, for instance, Mr. Buchanan referred to "the soaring cost of services for illegal aliens, perhaps a million of whom walk into the United States every year from Mexico."
But based on analysis of American census and other data, the binational study concludes that from 1990 to 1996, the total increase in the population of undocumented Mexican migrants was 630,000, an annual average of 105,000.
"This is obviously lower than the popular impression put out by the politicians," said Frank D. Bean, a demographer at the University of Texas at Austin who worked on the Binational Study. "It was not that Buchanan was telling a falsehood, but he was leaving out part of the equation. He talked about migrants pouring in, but neglected to talk about migrants pouring out. He was putting out numbers that invited misinterpretation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); REFUGEES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



617 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3775 words

HEADLINE: TROUBLED WATERS -- A special report.;
Billion-Dollar Plan to Clean New York City Water at Its Source

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The flow of drinking water to New York City begins as far away as a damp spot under some leaves on a mountainside 120 miles north of Times Square. For 155 years, the city has maintained a complicated network of reservoirs and aqueducts to carry rain and melted snow from distant hills to bathtubs in Brooklyn and sinks on Staten Island.
Now the purity of that flow faces the gravest threats ever, from both old sewage systems and a new wave of unbridled development in the watershed. To combat those threats, a growing force of scientists, engineers, special police officers and others from the city's Department of Environmental Protection has fanned out this summer across suburbs and farmland to explain and enforce the first new pollution rules for the watershed in 44 years. 
 They have 10 years and a billion dollars to fix faulty sewage treatment plants, to rebuild barnyards and pastures to control the flow of manure, and to buy tens of thousands of acres of land to build a buffer zone against encroaching development. Cities across the nation are developing programs to prevent pollution of drinking water at its source, but nothing approaches the magnitude of the cleanup that has just begun in the 2,000 square miles of hills and river valleys funneling water to the nine million people who use New York City's system.
But the grand experiment has shaky underpinnings: scientists have only an embryonic understanding of the forces that keep water pure or allow pollution to accumulate. And the plan depends on a fragile political alliance between rural upstate communities and New York City that can be upset at any time.
In essence, the city's task is to control three distant, sprawling regions where, since 1911, it has had the right under New York State law to limit water pollution. But for decades the main goal of city water officials was to increase the supply of water; its purity was rarely at issue. Now, the bureaucracy is forced to reinvent itself and to put the emphasis on cleanliness.
The Federal Government has made the rules clear: if the city cannot insure purity by managing the far-flung watershed, it will have to spend billions on a filtering plant. And while all involved emphasize that there are no health problems today with the flow of what a succession of New York City mayors have called "the champagne of drinking water," the problems are mounting.
Already, 10 out of 19 reservoirs are chronically overloaded with unwanted nutrients, which are carried in runoff from pastures, parking lots and lawns and in waste water from more than 100 sewage plants. This excess phosphorus and nitrogen produces algae blooms, discoloration and foul odors. Lacking oxygen, the water in those 10 reservoirs no longer fosters biological activity to filter or destroy pollutants.
The amount of waste water flowing from rural and suburban sewage treatment plants into the reservoirs has doubled in 20 years, reaching 11 million gallons a day. In prosperous Westchester County villages like Katonah and poorer Catskills villages like Andes, thousands of antiquated septic fields leach waste into the water.
Around the reservoirs in the suburbs east of the Hudson River, asphalt parking lots and fertilized lawns are increasingly supplanting woodlands and wetlands, reducing the ability of soil and streams to clean the water naturally. And a new building boom is under way.
Despite the scope and cost of the watershed management plan, there are already signs that it may fall short of the goals set by the city and Federal environmental officials. Indeed, several senior state and Federal officials involved in the effort say it is already evident that the new pollution rules will have to be made stricter to insure that water quality does not decline.
If the plan falters, there will not be a day when city residents open faucets and suddenly find brown ooze. Instead, water experts say, there will be a steady decline in water quality, like the ancient torture of death by a thousand cuts, ultimately damaging economic growth and the quality of life.
In a telephone interview yesterday, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said that when he took office in 1994, the threat of long-term water problems "was one of the things that probably concerned me the most."
"Water is critical to the ability of a city to have large numbers of people coming here, congregating, living," Mr. Giuliani said, adding that the cleanup would be intensified if necessary. "This assures that 40 or 50 years from now our water will still be among the best in the country."
Any tightening of the rules is likely to renew legal challenges by upstate communities around the reservoirs, which formally agreed to abide by the plan in January after years of fighting the city in court.
And surprises are already popping up. New research in the watersheds by city scientists has shown that the main source of a dangerous intestinal parasite, cryptosporidium, is apparently not farms or sewage plants -- as most water scientists had presumed -- but runoff from streets and storm drains in developed areas.
This means that the city's plans to eliminate barnyard runoff and add sophisticated filters to sewage plants may be misdirected.
Also, loopholes in the accord between the city and the watershed communities permit development to continue even around some of the most vulnerable reservoirs.
But even with the gaps and weaknesses, environmental officials at every level of government say that this cleanup is the last best chance of averting a 1992 Federal order to build what would be the world's largest filtration plant, for the 90 percent of city water that flows from reservoirs in the rural Catskills and the Delaware River Valley. Along with the estimated $5 billion construction cost, the plant would cost more than $300 million a year to operate, driving up city water and sewer rates even more than the steady annual rise of 7 to 9 percent during the last few years. Already, the city has committed to spending $825 million for a smaller filtration plant for its most degraded reservoirs, those in the Croton watershed, surrounded by the crowded suburbs of Putnam and Westchester Counties.
City water officials approached the new cleanup program with a queasy mix of doubt and hope.
As Ira Stern, the city's chief watershed diplomat, began a 100-mile drive early one morning to meet some village officials upstate, he described the importance of pushing ahead, despite the uncertainties.
"Common sense tells me that all the things we're doing add up to something," Mr. Stern said. "But will you see a difference in a glass of water in the city? I don't know."
His determination to make the plan work, he said, stemmed from one central, controlling thought. "You really don't want to take chances with a lifeline like this," Mr. Stern said. "You don't want to take chances when it's your water."
 
The Plan
Wars Over Water, Upstate and Down
New York City's first water crisis occurred in 1832, when a cholera epidemic killed 3,500 people and an investigation disclosed that 100 tons of human waste was filtering into Manhattan's ground water each day, tainting the wells that were the only water source.
Two years later, the State Legislature granted the city the right to condemn land and obtain water rights in the pastoral regions to the north, areas that are now the densely populated suburban belt of Westchester and Putnam Counties.
By 1836, the first aqueduct and the city's Croton dam were being built, and almost immediately a tussle arose between resentful watershed residents and the thirsty city to the south.
After generations in which the city routinely condemned entire villages to make way for dams and reservoirs -- razing schools and churches, bulldozing farms, relocating cemeteries -- in January the city signed something of a peace treaty with its neighbors to the north that cleared the way for the watershed cleanup.
The deal emerged after 18 months of intensive negotiations among the city, the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, New York State and the communities around the reservoirs.
The need to negotiate -- instead of simply enact -- a cleanup plan grew out of the sharp shift in power in Albany since the turn of the century, when New York City controlled the State Legislature and easily gained the right to encroach on upstate communities for more water.
Now, the city depends on the cooperation of upstate legislators for programs ranging from rent control to education. The talks between ancient foes from upstate and downstate were brokered largely by Gov. George E. Pataki.
A critical element of the resulting plan is one of the most intensive land-buying programs ever undertaken in New York State, with $260 million earmarked for buying up to 355,000 acres as a buffer against encroaching development and the pollution it creates.
More than $200 million will be spent to improve treatment of waste water flowing into reservoirs from sewage plants, or to divert some of that flow out of the watersheds altogether.
Up to $35 million is being spent to clean up several hundred dairy farms. The farmers are voluntarily cooperating in hope that the improvements to their barns and pastures will help preserve their livelihood. City water engineers have learned that keeping clean farms in business is better for the reservoirs than shutting them down through onerous regulations and watching the land be sold off and split into suburban-style lots.
Under the deal, New York City also agreed to give watershed communities nearly $60 million to spur what it hopes will be "environmentally sound" economic development. Another $12 million in "good neighbor" payments -- essentially salve for old wounds -- has already gone to 35 watershed communities, which plan to spend the money on such needed oddments as a new firehouse roof, a pump for a community swimming pool and a road-paving program. In return, the communities have pledged to be partners instead of antagonists in the fight to clean the water that drains from their hills toward city taps. But not everyone has clasped hands eagerly: More than 100 landowners are now in court seeking a total of over $100 million in claims for lost value to their property because of the tighter pollution rules.
To insure that the water is protected, a new environmental enforcement division of the city's 93-year-old watershed police force is tracking down willful polluters, like a restaurant owner in Brewster who the authorities say tried to cut costs by pumping raw sewage from a storage tank into a storm drain leading to a reservoir.
These officers patrol country roads and condominium complexes around the reservoirs, carrying chemistry kits along with side arms, sniffing for failed septic tanks or watching streams for ribbons of toxic froth and fining or arresting the polluters.
This is a marked change from just a few years ago, when the city uniformly ignored or forgave polluters. In a telling shift, the program is run by Capt. Ronald A. Gatto, a 15-year veteran of the watershed police who six years ago testified before the City Council that supervisors had actively discouraged him from enforcing reservoir pollution laws.
 
The Problems
Rule Loopholes And Leaking Sewage
Within the sprawling Delaware, Catskill and Croton watersheds, the landscape ranges from crowded suburbs to pristine forests. Some of the water destined for New York City bubbles from mountainside springs, but some comes from the Croton Falls Reservoir, which receives 30,000 gallons of waste water daily from a Putnam County hospital's sewage treatment plant.
The watersheds stretch from the upper branches of the Delaware River in the west, near the Pennsylvania border, to the city line of Danbury, Conn., in the east. The area draining into the Pepacton Reservoir alone covers 370 square miles and includes more than 6,400 buried septic fields and 6 sewage treatment plants.
On a recent trip through the communities around the Pepacton Reservoir, Mr. Stern -- who is in charge of a newly created division of the Department of Environmental Protection dealing with water quality, planning and community affairs -- drove through Andes, which is seventh on a list of the 22 most important villages with failing septic systems. The city was going to pay nearly $14 million to replace all the old systems. But first it had to find them.
Passing through the village center, Mr. Stern waved at a row of quaint Colonial cottages tucked along a watershed stream. "For all these homes," he said, "no one really knows where the septic fields are."
And the Pepacton lies at the rural end of the system, where the population density is only 45 people per square mile. East of the Hudson River, around the reservoirs packed into the suburbs closer to New York City, the population density is 10 times that.
Altogether, New York City owns less than 4 percent of the watershed land area. In contrast, Seattle, for example, owns 92 percent of the forested land draining into its water supply.
The main goals of the new plan are to buy as much land around the reservoirs as possible, and to tighten rules governing pollution on land that the city does not own. But the negotiated settlement with the watershed communities includes significant loopholes, both in the rules and in the land-buying effort, according to a variety of environmental groups and some city officials.
Eric A. Goldstein, a lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private environmental group, said the gaps emerged because the closed-door talks leading to the watershed plan were too often focused on political and legal issues, and not often enough on chemistry and biology.
"There were 10 lawyers for every scientist in the room," said Mr. Goldstein, whose group was one of many that sought to participate in the talks, but were excluded.
One of the biggest weaknesses, Mr. Goldstein said, is that the plan allows an unlimited number of new sewage plants to be built in most of the Delaware and Catskill watersheds, a concession that could indirectly spur more growth and pollution.
He and other critics also say the plan is weak in its treatment of the threat from phosphorus, a nutrient that tends to wash into reservoirs mainly from sewage plants and storm runoff. Since 1993, the city's own top experts on water quality have been saying that the reservoirs' maximum allowable concentration for phosphorus must be cut by 25 to 50 percent to preserve long-term water quality.
In a strongly worded report in December 1993, the city water experts concluded, "It is essential that more stringent standards for phosphorus loading to New York City reservoirs be adopted."
But the new set of regulations keeps the maximum phosphorus concentration where it has been for decades.
The agreement also sharply restricts where the city can buy land for buffer zones. Watershed communities insisted on barring the use of any land within their incorporated limits, for fear that they would lose part of their tax base if New York City bought land with commercial potential. Critics say it will put glaring gaps in the buffer zone right in places where storm runoff and other sources of pollution are the greatest threat.
In addition, a ban on construction of impervious surfaces like parking lots extends only 100 feet from the banks of important watershed streams, and includes exemptions for commercially zoned areas.
In contrast, Boston -- one of the only other big cities with a substantial number of people living around its reservoirs -- allows no alteration of land within 200 feet of a reservoir tributary, with no exceptions.
Boston also allows no construction or filling of any wetland bordering a reservoir stream, no matter how small. In contrast, New York City's rules allow wetlands under 12.4 acres to be developed, Mr. Goldstein said.
Another threat comes from the intensifying construction of corporate parks, malls, movie multiplexes and subdivisions around the reservoirs after half a decade of relative inactivity.
More than 7,100 acres of land draining into city reservoirs in Putnam County -- the fastest-growing county in New York State -- is slated for development or has new construction under way, according to Nell Keeler, an analyst at Hudson Riverkeeper Fund, a private environmental group.
Several enormous construction projects, including the expansion of the International Business Machines Corporation headquarters and a new headquarters for Swiss Re, an insurance company, are under way near the most important reservoir in the system, the Kensico, a holding basin near White Plains that is the last stop for the clean water from the Delaware and Catskill systems.
Adding another element of uncertainty, relations between the city and some of its upstate neighbors, which had improved in the wake of watershed negotiations, are beginning to fray.
At a recent meeting of Putnam County's six town supervisors, Joseph Belvedere, the supervisor from Kent, gave what a colleague described as a "call to arms": a speech calling for the towns to coordinate a defense against the city as they seek new routes to growth.
Supporters of the watershed plan say the best feature is a provision that allows it to be strengthened in several years if little progress has been achieved.
But Daniel A. Ruzow, an Albany lawyer for the watershed coalition, said, "The city can seek changes, but they know that puts everybody back at square one."
 
Recreating an Agency
When Quantity Cedes to Quality
Perhaps the most critical element determining the fate of the city's water is the ability of the city Department of Environmental Protection to change its ways after decades of letting conditions around the reservoirs deteriorate.
Significant changes in the staff and structure of the 800-person water division of the department have been made by Mayor Giuliani in the last year.
Senior water officials say that the days when city water engineers spent off hours moonlighting as consultants for real estate developers are also fading.
But inside the widespread department bureaucracy, experts in water quality still sometimes do battle with engineers whose main concern is delivering water in quantity. Examples of problems have been disclosed both in investigations by private environmental groups like the Hudson Riverkeeper Fund, in audits by Alan G. Hevesi, the New York City Comptroller, and also in interviews with more than two dozen agency employees.
One city water engineer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there was often a lack of urgency in identifying and solving problems. He said the skills of many talented biologists, engineers, and other experts in the agency -- some of the world's best -- are often squandered.
He described an incident last fall in which hundreds of gallons of fuel oil leaking from a storage tank at a library in Westchester seeped into the aqueduct carrying water toward the Bronx and Manhattan.
Even though some employees at the Jerome Park Reservoir in the Bronx had to be evacuated because of strong fuel odors, the agency's response appeared to be following the old, slow pattern.
"I made three anonymous calls to the state spills hot line," the engineer said. "That was the only way I could be sure it would get taken care of."
He added: "We squeaked by by the skin of our teeth. Nobody knew how to respond to the situation."
David Gordon, an environmental lawyer for Riverkeeper, has "Reservoir Keeper" printed on his business cards. He spent two years deeply involved in the negotiations leading to the city plan and said he feels it is a good road map. But that map must be carefully followed if the water is to stay pure, he said.
"The deal does not lock in watershed protection," Mr. Gordon said. "It locks in the right to protect the watershed. The D.E.P. now has that. But if D.E.P. doesn't function properly, this is just doomed."
Joel A. Miele Sr., who was appointed Commissioner of Environmental Protection for New York City last summer, said his agency was becoming more integrated and would be able to carry out the ambitious water-protection plan. But he acknowledged that problems persist. "Better horizontal communication is needed," he said. "We've got to keep pushing."
 
Watershed Allies
Common Worries Unite Former Foes
In large measure, the success or failure of the water plan rides on an assortment of New York City allies who have emerged in communities around the reservoirs. They are working to clean the water for different reasons: either to take advantage of the money coming from the city or because they have an inherent, separate interest in preserving open space or streams.
They range from fly fishermen eager to preserve trout habitat to suburban homeowners fed up with the persistent spread of strip development. One of the most unlikely supporters is Alan Rosa, the town supervisor of Middletown. Mr. Rosa once helped lead the coalition of watershed communities that fought the city for years in court. Now he helps run the Catskill Watershed Corporation, a nonprofit entity created under the agreement to dole out New York City money for economic development programs.
On a recent afternoon, Mr. Rosa answered a steady string of phone calls about aspects of the watershed deal. Mainly, people were worried about the new regulations. "A lot of people here feel we can fight them, but we can't," Mr. Rosa said. "The state gave New York City the right to build, maintain and regulate a watershed. The best we can do is work with them."
He said that the deal struck this year offered the only significant chance for watershed communities and the city to build a mutually beneficial relationship, but that it would be a slow process.
People came and went, including Beth Atkins, a schoolteacher from Margaretville, a postage-stamp village near the Pepacton Reservoir. She was worried about the septic field at a house she inherited. It was surely failing. Would she qualify for the city program to pay for replacing hundreds of old septic fields or would she face fines?
Mr. Rosa said she should be patient; the program would focus on known problems first. In crowded villages like Fleischmanns, a few miles away, the ground was essentially saturated with waste. There were more calls, and -- as always in the hills around the reservoirs -- there was an unexpected problem.
At 4 P.M. an undertaker arrived. A cemetery was crumbling into a watershed stream.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scientists from New York City's Department of Environmental Protection testing for impurities at the Kensico Reservoir, near White Plains. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart/Photos: "From Rain To the Tap"
New York City's water supply faces a number of threats as it flows through a system of small and large waterways to reservoirs and eventually into city taps.
 
TRACKING THE FLOW OF WATER
 
SOURCE -- Rain and melting snow feed small creeks and streams that give rise to rivers. More than 90 percent of the city's water supply originates as surface runoff from precipitation. Photo: Source of the West Branch of the Delaware River on Mount Jefferson.
 
FARMING -- Runoff from dairy farms containing animal waste and fertilizers washes into streams and rivers. The nutrients feed algae growth, which can make water undrinkable. Photo: A watershed stream on a dairy farm in Kortright.
 
DEVELOPMENT -- Healthy streams and the spongy properties of soil and vegetation can filter pollutants before they enter reservoirs. Construction and paving limits this natural cleansing. Photo: Development near Kensico Reservoir, where a stream was buried.
 
SEWAGE -- More than 100 sewage treatment plants dump waste water directly into the water supply. Also, an unknown number of failing septic systems leak waste into rivers and streams. Photo: Hospital waste water discharging into the Croton Falls Reservoir.
 
RESERVOIRS -- The city built 19 huge reservoirs as holding tanks that help clean the water by allowing pollutants to settle. Also, microorganisms in unpolluted reservoirs help by eating organic material, and sunlight helps to kill bacteria. Photo: Excess water spilling from the Croton Reservoir dam.
 
DELIVERY -- Before the water reaches the city, it is lightly chlorinated to remove bacteria. Relatively little pumping must be done because most of the reservoirs are higher in elevation than the city. Photo: A drinking fountain in Battery Park City. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pgs. 28 & 29)
 
Map/Graph: "Locating the Threats"
Map of New York City's watersheds highlights the following:
 
Cannonsville
THREATS: Runoff from dairy farms and dumped sewage.
 
Pepacton
THREATS: Sewage from septic systems and water treatment plants.
 
Neversink
THREAT: Some failing septic systems.
 
Rondout
THREAT: Dumped sewage.
 
Ashokan
THREATS: Dumped sewage and failing septic systems.
 
Kensico
THREAT: Encroaching development. Holds water from Catskill and Delaware reservoirs.
 
Schoharie
THREATS: Dumped sewage and runoff from development, including ski resorts.
 
Croton Watershed
Includes 12 reservoirs labeled below
THREATS: Runoff from developed areas and dumped sewage.
The city plans to filter water from this area.
 
Rating the Reservoirs
The ability of a reservoir to keep water clean can be evaluated using the trophic index, a formula that combines measurements of phosphorus content, chlorophyll concentration and water clarity.
 
AVERAGE OF THE TROPHIC INDEX OF EACH RESERVOIR FROM MAY TO OCTOBER, 1989 TO 1996
 
DELAWARE AND CATSKILL RESERVOIRS (Source of 90 percent of New York City's water.)
 
Cannonsville -- 57
Schoharie -- 45
Pepacton -- 48
Ashokan -- 46
Neversink -- 44
Rondout -- 45
Kensico -- 43
 
CROTON RESERVOIRS (Source of 10 percent of New York City's water.)
 
Middle Branch -- 51
Boyd Corners -- 44
West Branch* -- 46
Bog Brook -- 46
East Branch -- 55
Diverting -- 59
Croton Falls -- 56
Titicus -- 50
Amawalk -- 55
Muscoot -- 53
Cross River -- 51
New Croton -- 52
 
*The West Branch reservoir serves mainly as a settling basin for the Delaware reservoirs.
 
Sources: New York City Department of Environmental Protection; Natural Resources Defense Council; Hudson Riverkeeper. (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available WATER POLLUTION (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); WATER QUALITY (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); SUBURBS (74%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); MAYORS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1997



618 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Morgantown Journal;
A No. 1 Ranking Few Are Celebrating

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: MORGANTOWN, W.Va., Aug. 27

 BODY:
As honors go, many West Virginians say this one is wholly undeserved. An annual survey of students at 311 colleges and universities published this month in a Random House guidebook ranked the University of West Virginia as the No. 1 party school in the country.
Students, administrators and alumni say that was right 10, maybe even 5, years ago when student celebrations outside bars on Sunnyside Avenue included the burning of sofas, chairs and other combustibles. It was certainly true in the 1970's, after Playboy magazine rated party schools and put West Virginia at the top of the list. 
 Now? If David C. Hardesty Jr. has concentrated on anything since he returned to his alma mater as president in 1995, it is restoring wholesomeness. Traditional events that fed the party reputation with mass consumption of alcohol, rowdy behavior, even shootings, have been replaced by tamer activities, along with greater vigilance by the local police and the state Alcohol and Beverage Control Commission. Several of the university's 10 fraternities recently outlawed alcoholic beverages.
Students still get drunk now and again. And Morgantown's police chief, Robert A. Lucci, said the number of university students arrested each year for driving under the influence of alcohol holds steady at about 60. But no incidents have occurred like the one in Baton Rouge, La., where four Louisiana State University students were hospitalized this week after heavy drinking at a party. One, a 20-year-old junior, died.
So when the Random House guidebook named West Virginia No. 1 for fun, "everybody's response around here was, 'Where have I been?' " said Josh Greene, 23, a West Virginia senior and city editor of the university newspaper, The Daily Athenaeum. "Or, they say every place else in the nation must be pretty pathetic."
For Mr. Hardesty, the ranking was particularly stinging because it followed a swirl of new programs, especially for freshmen, that the university started as a way to improve academic achievement while job markets are growing more demanding.
But beyond that, many people here in Morgantown say the party appellation plays to familiar old stereotypes that have bedeviled state residents for decades: of West Virginians as grass-chompin', slow-talkin', barefoot hillbilly mountaineers who drink moonshine and use outhouses.
Take it from the Mountaineer himself, Andy Cogar, a 21-year-old senior from Gassaway, W.Va., who won the job last year to be university mascot. That means he can dress up in buckskin, lead cheers at university events and appear on post cards.
"I encounter a lot of jokes," Mr. Cogar said. "You learn to harden yourself, but it does upset me when people make comments about the state. I was talking to a person from Virginia the other day and he asked me if we made fun of them as much as they do about us. We're the butt of countless jokes."
The stereotypes linger despite strong improvements around the state in a variety of issues. New investment has cut West Virginia's unemployment rate nearly in half over the last 10 years, to 5.8 percent from 9.8 percent, one of the largest decreases of any state. Nearly all of the state's public school classrooms have computers connected to the Internet. The rugged terrain of mountains and valleys has helped turn many areas into popular vacation spots.
"You know, if U.C.L.A. was named the top party school, people would think they were just a bunch of crazy Californians," said Gaston Caperton, a former Governor of West Virginia.
"But I think our stereotypes are dying out, and when people say things like that, it's from what they were thinking about five years ago," he said.
While some people at the university shrugged off the party ranking, some were outraged, and none more than Rachel Welsh, a graduate student from Spencer, W.Va., who was elected student president in March.
In the campaign, Ms. Welsh and her running mate emphasized that they were nondrinkers. She wondered nonetheless whether that would disqualify them as true representatives of the student body, especially with several other tickets sponsoring keg parties as a way to gather support.
The Welsh ticket won handily.
After the ranking was announced, Ms. Welsh wrote to the editors of the rankings to question their judgment and to explain how an affordable state university helped her, the daughter of poor parents, receive a high-quality education. She invited the survey takers back "to take a look at the real West Virginia University."
"It saddened me," Ms. Welsh said in an interview. "Some people I've talked to were proud of the ranking until I asked them how they'd feel if they go to a job interview and someone says, 'I guess you went to that No. 1 party school,' and laughs at your resume. Then they pretty much agree with me."
Mr. Cogar, the mascot, said: "It's most harmful to bright in-state students. We want to keep our talents in West Virginia, but people so often leave. If there's any harm at all, it's to the university's efforts to retain the brightest students in the state."
As a former student at the university and a police officer for 25 years, Mr. Lucci, 43, has watched craziness come and go. These days, he said, students still get arrested for alcohol-related offenses, like destroying property and urinating in public. But with the number of bars in town dwindling to a handful in recent years, the arrest rate, he said, is not alarming.
"Since Hardesty has taken over, it has helped us tremendously," he said. "It's not the old days. They just don't party like they used to. It surprises me we were No. 1."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about reaction to a university's being named the No. 1 party school in the nation in a survey misstated the name of the school. It is West Virginia University, not the University of West Virginia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rachel Welsh, the student president at the University of West Virginia, and Andy Cogar, who portrays the university's mascot, say the university's ranking as the country's top party school is inaccurate and damaging. (Ron Rittenhouse for The New York Times)
 
Map of West Virginia showing the location of Morgantown: Stereotypes linger at University of West Virginia, in Morgantown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MORGANTOWN, WV, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA; RANDOM HOUSE UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA (94%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA; RANDOM HOUSE UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF WEST VIRGINIA (94%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MORGANTOWN, WV, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); RANKINGS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997



619 of 619 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: VIEWPOINT;
A Pension Gap for Women

BYLINE: By MARY RUDIE BARNEBY and JENNIFER KELLY; Mary Rudie Barneby is president of Delaware Investment and Retirement Services, a Philadelphia firm that manages retirement plans, and of the National Defined Contribution Council, an organization of plan providers. Jennifer Kelly is a freelance journalist in Walpole, N.H. Both are working mothers.

 BODY:
BY the latest count, there are 58 million working women in the United States. In 1995, women made up 46 percent of the American labor force, according to the Labor Department. Although they are still concentrated in technical, clerical and sales occupations, women now hold 48 percent of all managerial and executive jobs and nearly 53 percent of all professional positions. They also own eight million businesses; companies led by women are among the fastest-growing sectors of the economy, the Small Business Administration says.
Despite this growing participation in nearly every part of the labor force, women still lag behind men in traditional pension and Social Security benefits. And because they live longer, women actually need more retirement savings than men, not less. 
 Fortunately, several legislators have recognized the need for better retirement savings vehicles for women. Measures now in Congress would go far to address women's interests in these key areas:
* Retirement savings during maternity leave. About half of all women drop out of the work force at some point to have or care for children. During maternity leave, women make no contributions to their companies' pension plans. They may not be eligible for traditional individual retirement accounts, either, if their spouses have pension coverage and their income exceeds threshold levels.
A bill sponsored by Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, addresses this problem. The proposal would allow nonworking spouses to make tax-deductible contributions of up to $2,000 to I.R.A. accounts, even if they are married to people who participate in an employer-sponsored retirement plan.
A similar provision was enacted into law this summer as part of the balanced-budget agreement. But the deductibility phases out for couples with incomes between $150,000 and $160,000. Senator Gregg's measure would allow women (and men) at every income level to continue building retirement assets tax-free during periods when they drop out of the work force to care for children. It also allows larger "catch-up" contributions by parents returning to work.
* Faster vesting for pension coverage. Women have just 3.8 years of tenure, on average, at their current jobs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Because some pension plans begin to offer vesting only after five years, frequent job shifters may not earn adequate pension coverage. Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, has introduced a bill that requires companies to offer vesting after three years instead of the current five.
The Graham bill also addresses other issues: It lifts the restriction that permits employees to contribute only 25 percent of their salaries to defined-contribution pension plans like 401(k)'s; under that rule, lower-paid employees are unable to contribute the maximum $9,500 per year allowed better-paid workers. And, like the Gregg bill, it allows catch-up contributions to retirement plans after unpaid maternity or paternity leaves.
The bill would also provide some benefits to the spouse of a deceased Government employee, even if the employee died before becoming eligible for benefits.
* More equitable division of pension assets after a divorce. Nearly half of all married women get divorced -- and in many cases suffer a drastic drop in their standard of living. New legislation by Senator Carol Moseley-Braun, Democrat of Illinois, would help insure that divorced spouses at least have a chance to share in pension benefits.
The bill would require employers to notify spouses of divorced employees that they may be eligible for pension benefits. The spouse would then have to present divorce papers to the employer. If a court has not already decided how pension assets should be split, the divorced spouse may be entitled to half the pension benefits earned during the marriage. Another provision would set up a hot line for questions about women's pension issues. Representative Barbara B. Kennelly, Democrat of Connecticut, has introduced a companion bill in the House.
Clearly, these bills would help level the playing field and help women save for retirement. They would add to an increasing menu of options, like the new I.R.A.'s for nonworking spouses and an array of small-business retirement vehicles.
It is encouraging that legislators are looking for more ways to help women save for retirement. Women, and men, should actively support this legislation. But just as important, women need to be aggressive in taking advantage of all corporate or organizational retirement savings programs available to them. In our rush to provide so much for our families, we often forget to provide financial security for ourselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); LABOR FORCE (91%); WOMEN (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MATERNITY LEAVE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); MEN (75%); TAX LAW (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); STATISTICS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1997

 
