

601 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Japan Pledges to Open Economy, But Lack of Detail Raises Doubts

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 22

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto today pledged far-reaching changes in Japan's economic structure and promised a "thoroughgoing deregulation" of the thicket of restrictions that curb just about every aspect of commercial life.
Mr. Hashimoto, who was elected Prime Minister this month, also emphasized in a major speech today to the opening session of Parliament that the relationship with the United States would remain the foundation of Japanese foreign policy. 
 Throughout the speech -- a rough equivalent of an American President's State of the Union address -- Mr. Hashimoto reiterated a pledge for fundamental changes in the way Japan does business. Yet Mr. Hashimoto gave few examples of specific changes he hopes to introduce, and it is far from clear whether much will come of the grand talk of change.
"Reform is Japan's most pressing need today," declared Mr. Hashimoto, a 58-year-old politician with a reputation as a bit more aggressive than most of his predecessors. "Like it or not, there are many changes that must be made in every aspect of Japanese society."
The Government's first priority, Mr. Hashimoto said, is to rebuild the nation's battered economy.
Over the longer term, he said Japan must become more competitive by eliminating regulations that raise the cost of doing business.
"The first structural reform here is that of thoroughgoing deregulation," he declared. "Our basic approach will be to assume that deregulation is appropriate. We will retain regulations only in exceptional cases and we will winnow regulations down to the bare minimum consistent with their original purpose."
But Mr. Hashimoto's reluctance to cite examples inevitably raises questions about his commitment. He has not been known for his passion for liberalization, and just last year, he helped lead the fight against American demands to deregulate the market for repair of cars.
Polls show that the Japanese support the concepts of "economic reform" and "deregulation." But such concepts gather opposition when they take specific form: liberalizing the rice market, allowing the spread of supermarkets, and easing curbs on foreign medicines.
Much of the support for Mr. Hashimoto's party, the Liberal Democrats, comes from farmers and small businesses, who have a great deal at stake in maintaining regulations that protect them from lower-cost competitors.
Ichiro Ozawa, the leader of the New Frontier Party, the main opposition group, immediately complained that Mr. Hashimoto had not been specific in his speech.
"It's quite regrettable that he did not express his exact thinking in his speech," said Mr. Ozawa, who has called for sweeping specific changes that would amount to a revolution in Japanese life. Mr. Ozawa will have the opportunity on Wednesday to grill Mr. Hashimoto in Parliament. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY DEREGULATION (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN); KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (97%); ICHIRO OZAWA (70%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



602 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Is West Slighting Africa's Hot Spots Like Liberia?

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia, Jan. 22

 BODY:
 When the chief American delegate to the United Nations, Madeleine K. Albright, stopped here briefly on Wednesday during a tour of several African countries, there were the predictable pledges of assistance from Washington to war-torn Liberia.
But along with the promise of helicopters and trucks to help in the disarming of combatants in a devastating six-year civil war, there was also a stern warning that the international community had little patience for crisis-ridden African countries that failed to settle their own problems. 
 "We have no intention of our logistical support being squandered by anyone's failure of political will," Mrs. Albright said at an airport news conference, straining at times to be heard over a Nigerian transport plane ferrying in new peacekeepers. "Delay," she said, can "no longer be in the vocabulary" of Liberia's political actors.
But for many African leaders and diplomats, the trip by Mrs. Albright -- the highest-ranking American to visit Liberia since Secretary of State George Shultz came here before the war that killed more than 150,000 people -- inadvertently underscored another point: by the time African crises receive this level of outside attention, the moment for averting catastrophe or sealing the peace has all too often passed.
The most critical obstacle to fulfilling the Liberian peace agreement reached last August, these African officials say, has been the delay in getting the kind of international response needed to carry out a disarmament program and remake this country's shattered economy.
In this regard, African officials argue, the handling of the Liberian crisis by the outside world strongly resembles the ambivalent or tardy international response to past crises in other stops on Mrs. Albright's itinerary: Angola, Rwanda and Burundi.
In Liberia, despite widespread skepticism about its prospects, a cease-fire has largely held for months. But recent days have seen the first serious signs of an unraveling of the country's settlement, as unruly fighters of one of the country's several armed factions have killed as many as 50 West African peacekeepers.
Diplomats say the fighting began because of the economic desperation of the militia members, who are often unschooled boys, and add that the conflict nearly flared out of control because of the limited means available to a short-handed and poorly equipped peacekeeping force.
"Last fall, the American Government pledged $75 million to help us," said Wilton S. Sankawulo, the former schoolteacher who is chairman of Liberia's governing Council of State. "But they said go home first and prove that you are serious."
Liberia has been the first instance in which a regional organization, namely the Economic Community of West African States, or Ecowas, has acted with the official sanction of the United Nations to end a civil war. Nigeria has led this effort from the start, spending an estimated $4 billion. But with major political and economic crises at home, diplomats say Nigeria cannot now carry out Liberia's peace agreement without substantially more outside help.
Foreign diplomats say the most critical immediate element is giving the 7,500-man Nigerian-led peacekeeping force -- known as Ecomog, for the Ecowas monitoring group -- the means to deploy throughout the country: the trucks and helicopters pledged but not yet delivered by the Americans, and more troops from poor West African countries, which would require financing from the outside world.
Unlike other crises in which the United Nations sends it own peacekeepers and directly assesses contributions from members, international fund-raising for Liberia has been conducted through voluntary donor conferences that have garnered sparse contributions.
On top of the outside world's reluctance to contribute to an African-led peacekeeping effort, which has embittered many of this region's leaders, there is the additional complication of deeply strained relations between the United States and Nigeria over the latter's human rights situation.
Rather than being turned over to the Nigerian-led peacekeepers, as is the practice in most international efforts of this sort, the troop trucks promised by the United States are leased vehicles that, at Washington's insistence, will be operated only by private contractors to keep them out of Nigerian hands.
"The resources of Ecomog have been stretched to the limit, and it would be wrong and unfair for the international community to expect it to proceed further without getting it more help," said Anthony Nyaki, the United Nations special representative to Liberia. "Because of the unique mandate given by the U.N. to the West Africans, whatever happens here will be precedent-setting.
"In five days as much is spent in Bosnia as was spent in a whole year on Liberia," he said. "If this is allowed to fail, the question will become more pertinent than ever why the outside world cares so little for Africa."
The comparison with Bosnia is one that comes up again and again in conversations with African officials throughout this region, and it is one that inspires cynicism among many.
The international community was slow to act and committed far too few resources to managing crises like the transition to democracy in war-torn Angola or the prevention of a genocidal civil war in Rwanda, African diplomats say. And in Burundi today, where the signs of a possible Rwanda-style civil war are multiplying, the same reluctance to act seems apparent to many.
"Since Somalia ended, I have attended three major conferences on the lessons of that crisis, but these lessons never seem to be learned," said Victor Gbeho, a Ghanaian diplomat who represents the West African economic community here and was the United Nations special envoy to Somalia at the height of that country's crisis.
"For some reason it still takes far too long to get the international community to react to African crises, to realize their pledges of support and work through their bureaucratic mazes," Mr. Gbeho said. "It took the Americans one week to raise $1.8 billion for Bosnia. If I were paranoid, I would say the delays we always face here are due to the fact that we are dealing with Africa." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LIBERIA (97%); AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); RWANDA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); ANGOLA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA; AFRICA; LIBERIA (97%); AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); RWANDA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); ANGOLA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); DISARMAMENT (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); AIRPORTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); HELICOPTERS (72%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (71%); POLITICS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (AMB); FRENCH, HOWARD W GEORGE PRATT SHULTZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



603 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Clinton to Ban Contracts to Companies That Hire Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22

 BODY:
President Clinton is expected to issue an order barring Federal contracts with companies that illegally hire undocumented foreign workers, Administration officials said today.
The order is part of a stepped-up effort to stop employers from hiring illegal immigrants and to open jobs for American citizens. 
 Congress outlawed the hiring of illegal aliens in 1986, but enforcement has faded in the last six years. Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said in an interview: "This whole area of employer enforcement has been moribund. There has been a steady decline in effort and resources directed at the workplace."
Immigration is becoming a volatile issue in the Presidential campaign, especially in states like California, Florida and Texas, and Mr. Clinton wants to make sure that Republicans cannot use the issue against him, Administration officials said. In Los Angeles eight days ago, Senator Bob Dole, the front-running candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination, criticized Mr. Clinton's record on immigration, saying the President had not helped California cope with the costs of illegal immigrants.
The Administration is already using the armed forces and local law-enforcement agencies to bolster the Border Patrol in Arizona and California. Mexico's economic problems have increased the pressure for illegal immigration. Recognizing that many illegal immigrants are lured to this country by jobs, Congress recently directed the immigration service to double its corps of workplace investigators.
By issuing an executive order, the President can take action by himself, without needing Congress to pass comprehensive legislation to overhaul immigration policy. White House officials say Mr. Clinton will make increased use of such orders to put his imprint on domestic policy and to show that he has not been stymied by Republicans in this election year.
As a condition of doing business with the Government, companies promise to obey Federal immigration and labor laws, but until now, the Government has not had a systematic way to exclude contractors that violate these laws.
The President's order would require all Federal agencies to inform other units when companies are found to have hired illegal aliens and cooperate to bar such companies from doing further work for the Government.
The order is likely to complement the agency's new emphasis on workplace violations. Mrs. Meissner said the enforcement efforts would focus on industries with a history of employing illegal workers, like construction, food processing, hotels, restaurants and agriculture.
Thomas P. Fischer, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Atlanta, said the agency had arrested 34 illegal aliens working on construction of a new Federal office building there in June.
"That building is just 300 feet from my office," Mr. Fischer said. "The illegal workers were Guatemalans, Mexicans and some Canadians also. They were working as carpenters and skilled craftsmen in a union shop. The jobs were later filled by U.S. citizens for wages up to $15 an hour." The case, he said, began with complaints from American citizens at the work site.
Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the immigration service, recalled a similar case in which Mexicans were illegally working on a project to build housing for Army families at Fort Polk, La. The Mexicans were "laying concrete slabs and doing drywall work," Mr. Bergeron said.
The Federal Government buys huge amounts of goods and services, awarding contracts for roughly $200 billion a year. For example, the General Services Administration, the central housekeeping and supply agency for the Government, owns or leases space in more than 7,000 buildings. About 26 million people, accounting for 20 percent of the civilian labor force, work for Federal contractors and subcontractors.
President Clinton declared last year that "border deterrence cannot succeed if the lure of jobs in the United States remains," and he promised to "toughen work-site enforcement and employer sanctions."
Rahm I. Emanuel, a White House aide who works on immigration policy, said the paperwork for the new order had not gone to the President but was being circulated among agencies with an interest in the issue.
Mr. Fischer, the immigration official in Atlanta, said he had tried to persuade the general services agency to crack down on contractors employing illegal immigrants. But "the G.S.A. washes its hands of this," he said in an interview. "They say: 'We just award the contracts. It's up to the contractor or the subcontractor to fulfill legal obligations as to who can work and who can't work.' "
Mr. Fischer said the State of Georgia and local government agencies had taken swift action to correct problems when illegal aliens were found working on their construction projects. But he said: "No one from the G.S.A. has ever called us expressing concern or asking, 'How can we make sure this doesn't happen again?'
"Here's someone in the Federal family, someone we work with and know, the Government's real estate agent. You might think they would have the professionalism and follow-through and wherewithal to say: 'We're embarrassed. We don't want this happening again. How can we prevent it?' "
The Government has elaborate rules specifying how contracts shall be awarded. Under these rules, the Government may disqualify any company found to have committed an "offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty."
Ida M. Ustad, Associate Administrator of the General Services Administration, said "there has been some discussion" of denying contracts to companies found to have employed illegal foreign workers.
"We wouldn't have any objection to it," Ms. Ustad said, "but there's not any systematic way to do it. The I.N.S. does not train its people to consider debarment as an option. As a first step, I.N.S. needs to set up a system to make referrals to other agencies."
The Presidential order would require agencies to work together.
Ms. Ustad said that if the immigration service knew that a Federal contractor was violating the immigration law, it could send the information to the agency that does the most business with that company. Agency officials could then decide whether to bar the contractor from further dealings with the Government, and in an extreme case a contract could be terminated.
The Government publishes a monthly list of thousands of companies ineligible for Federal contracts for various reasons.
Members of Congress from both parties have demanded tougher enforcement of immigration laws,and under a bill signed by Mr. Clinton on Jan. 6, the budget for the immigration service will be increased by 24 percent, to $2.6 billion this year from $2.1 billion in 1995.
Mr. Clinton has already shown that he intends to use the purchasing power of the Government to advance his policies. Under an executive order issued in March, he declared that Federal agencies must not do business with companies that hire permanent replacements for striking workers.
The Chamber of Commerce of the United States filed suit to block it, but Judge Gladys Kessler of the Federal District Court here rejected the challenge. Enforcement of Mr. Clinton's order has been held up while the Chamber of Commerce appeals Judge Kessler's ruling.
The number of employers investigated for possible immigration law violations declined sharply, to 5,963 last year from 14,706 in 1989. While the amount collected in fines rose to $6.2 million in 1992 from $4 million in 1989, it fell to $4.1 million last year.
Congress recently provided $50 million to beef up enforcement of immigration laws in the workplace, allowing Mrs. Meissner to hire 384 new investigators to join the 320 already in the field.
In an example of its new efforts, Mrs. Meissner said, the agency last week arrested 112 illegal aliens in construction, factory and restaurant jobs in Delaware, the District of Columbia, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOVERNMENT COS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; ILLEGAL ALIENS; CONTRACTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); FOREIGN LABOR (92%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); NATURALIZATION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); REFUGEES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



604 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
A Michelangelo in Manhattan?
A stately house on Fifth Avenue may be the home to Manhattan's only sculpture by Michelangelo, a three-foot statue of a naked, curly-haired youth, which is missing its arms and part of its legs. [Page A1.]
 
Schools Move Off Failing List
Richard P. Mills, the State Education Commissioner, announced that he was taking Roosevelt High School and 10 other New York City schools off the failing schools list, the highest number to come off at one time since the list was created in 1989. Mr. Mills said there is no great mystery to turning around failing schools. "Essentially, it's just hard, relentless work to improve performance," he said. [B1.]
 
Takeover of Carting Company
In a move that officials said should lower garbage removal costs for businesses in New York City, one of the country's biggest waste hauling companies, USA Waste Services Inc., said it would take over a carting company that is under indictment for being part of a Mafia-run cartel. [B1.]
 
Nicotine Fix in Exile
Since Mayor Giuliani signed a law a year ago to restrict smoking in public places, smokers have been driven out of offices, restaurants and ball parks -- not to mention hospitals -- in search of nicotine fixes. Not every smoker minds the exile. NYC by Clyde Haberman. [B1.]
 
Charges of Brutality at Rikers
State and Federal prosecutors are investigating a dozen allegations of brutality by Rikers guards, including a case in which lawsuits charge that two inmates were unjustifiably beaten by officers. [B3.]
 
Police Kill New Jersey Man
A few blocks from the Harlem housing project at which an officer fatally wounded an unarmed man Saturday night, police officers shot and killed a New Jersey man in front of a Washington Heights pool hall. [B3.]
 
Plea Talks in Assisted Suicide
George Delury, who helped his ailing 52-year-old wife, Myrna Lebov, commit suicide, said that his lawyer would be meeting with prosecutors in the next 10 days to discuss a possible plea bargain. [B2.]
 
REGION
 
Helping a Flood-Ravaged Town
With help from emergency services from around the region, the town of Walton, N.Y., began recovery efforts after the worst flash flood there in memory. Governor Pataki flew to Walton by helicopter with pledges of state aid and to announce a request for Federal disaster relief. [A1.]
 
Waters Recede, Losses Mount
Flood waters continued to recede across hundreds of square miles in the Middle Atlantic States, leaving thick layers of mud, terrible human suffering and financial losses that are sure to be staggering. The Federal Emergency Management Agency and insurance companies said it was too early to put a dollar figure on the disaster. [B4.]
 
As the flood waters of Pennsylvania's big rivers receded and thousands of residents returned to their homes, the state said the economic losses could reach $700 million. [B4.]
 
When Offices for Poor Close
The Westchester County Department of Social Services has closed four of its eight offices in the county to save rent. Advocates for the poor said the closings would deprive the most vulnerable and desperate residents of help they needed. [B1.]
 
On-Line Pornography Bill Gains
The New York State Assembly passed a bill that would make it a punishable offense to send pornographic materials to minors over computer networks. An identical bill passed in the Senate and Governor Pataki has said he supports regulating pornography in the booming on-line computer industry. [B5.]
 
Following Giuliani's Lead
Adopting an idea proposed last year by Mayor Giuliani, the Nassau County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, said that parents on welfare should be required to work in the public schools. His proposal drew strong support from the Republican-dominated County Legislature. [B5.]
 
Nassau Approves Smoking Ban
The Nassau County Health Department approved new regulations, which take effect on July 1, that ban smoking in all restaurants except in separately enclosed, separately ventilated rooms comprising no more than 25 percent of a restaurant's seating capacity. [B5.]
 
Sweep of Jail Is Completed
The 160 state corrections officers who temporarily took over the Hudson County jail in Kearny, N.J., last week left the site, except for a small management team that remained to help administer the jail for the county. State officials said they had successfully swept the building for contraband ranging from drugs to homemade weapons. [B5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WM (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (69%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (69%); NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (69%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (69%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (69%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SMOKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (87%); FLOODS & FLOODING (84%); DISASTER RELIEF (84%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (73%); LITIGATION (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); HOMICIDE (72%); INDICTMENTS (72%); MAYORS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); TAKEOVERS (69%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); LAWYERS (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); SHOOTINGS (63%); SUICIDE (62%); INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



605 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Drop on Talk Of a Default

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Investors in the credit markets turned bearish yesterday in response to fresh Republican threats over the weekend to thwart an increase in the Federal debt limit unless it was done on their terms.
Prices also fell as the market weighed the effect of the more than $30 billion of new Treasury notes being sold this week. A weaker dollar also put a drag on prices; a soft dollar makes American investments like Treasury securities less attractive to foreigners because the currency movement reduces the gain. 
 The 30-year Treasury bond dropped 12/32 in price, to 111 13/32 for a yield of 6.04 percent, up from 5.97 percent on Friday. For investors the loss amounted to a little more than $10 for every $1,000 of bonds held.
The threat made over the weekend by the House majority leader, Dick Armey, to push the nation into default, combined with this week's big Treasury auctions, created an atmosphere in which seemingly no one wanted to buy, traders said. Although the chance of an actual Government default is considered small, market participants would rather see a zero chance.
After the market closed, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin told Republican leaders that he had run out of legal options to sidestep the national borrowing limit and could keep the Government from defaulting on its debt after Feb. 29 only through the "completely unacceptable" methods of selling off the national gold reserve or holding up tax refunds.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich said, "We are, quite frankly, at an impasse."
Thomas F. Carpenter, chief economist and managing director at ASB Capital Management, a Washington firm with more than $6 billion in bonds under management, said yesterday that in addition to the negative factors in the background, "keep in mind that today's setback in the bond market comes on the heels of the best week for bond market performance since August of last year."
Noting that the yield on the five-year note dropped to about 5.50 percent from about 5.70 percent last week, he said, "it was inevitable that some profit taking would occur today."
"Another negative is that some supply is coming this week, with a two-year note on Tuesday and a five-year note that will be auctioned on Wednesday," he said. "However, the largest one-day negative relates to the continuation of the acerbic debate between the President and Congress with respect to the budget deficit. The bond market at this juncture is simply tired of eating leftovers and tired of being forced to watch reruns."
Mr. Carpenter said the continued political impasse was leading many bond investors to fear that the budget issue would be a fairly long-term matter, persisting through this Presidential campaign year.
"The best-case scenario and probably the scenario for this Friday is that another stop-gap spending measure will be enacted," Mr. Carpenter said, "but the market knows that this, in effect, solves nothing in the sense that no long-term budget is implemented by this action, and secondly, no resolution to the scary debt-ceiling issue is in sight."
Nonetheless, there is "a better-than-even chance we will get another interest rate cut" from the Federal Reserve, he said, adding, "This rally still has legs."
At yesterday's auction, the three- and six-month bills drew good investor demand at an average rate of 4.99 percent and 4.88 percent, respectively. Traders said the ratio of bids to the number of bills actually sold was about 4.8 to 1, but that could be because the size of yesterday's auction was $2 billion less than last week's auction. Bills continued to benefit from a flight of money away from the equity market and from the longer maturities as the budget debate goes on, traders said.
Today, the Government will auction $18.25 billion of new two-year notes and tomorrow, $12 billion of five-year notes. By late in the day in when-issued trading, the notes were offered at a price to yield 5.08 percent for a two-year maturity and 5.34 percent for a five-year.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.739	97.533	Discounted Rate	4.99%	4.88%	Coupon Yield	5.14%	5.09%	High Price	98.744	97.538	Discounted Rate	4.97%	4.87%	Coupon Yield	5.12%	5.08%	Low Price	98.739	97.533	Discounted Rate	4.99%	4.88%	Coupon Yield	5.14%	5.09%	Accepted at low price	51%	23%	Total applied for	$56,074,720	$56,620,277	Accepted	$11,537,010	$11,584,787	Noncompetitive	$1,309,466	$1,163,361	

Both issues are dated Jan. 25, 1996. The three-month bills mature on April 25, 1996, and the six-month bills mature on July 25, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since October. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); DEBT CEILING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



606 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: Good News for President in the Latest Poll

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

 BODY:
In his State of the Union Message tonight, President Clinton will address a public that is suddenly expressing new concerns about the Federal deficit but still gives Mr. Clinton higher marks than the Republican Congress for trying to break the budget impasse, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
The survey of public sentiment at the opening of the Presidential campaign shows that the months of turmoil on Capitol Hill over balancing the budget have propelled the deficit to the forefront of the public's agenda. After years of ranking the economy or crime as the most important issue facing the nation, people now put the deficit first. 
 The battle over the budget has also left 3 out of 10 Americans with the view that politics in Washington is more mean-spirited than in the past, and 6 out of 10 expect the budget standoff to drag on for a long time, the poll shows. But more people blame the Republicans: 6 out of 10 surveyed said Mr. Clinton was really trying to find a solution to the budget standoff, while only 4 out of 10 said Republicans in Congress were really trying.
As Mr. Clinton delivers the speech that is intended to serve as the thematic preview of his re-election drive, he can take comfort that the voters in his own party have remained remarkably loyal. Seventy-nine percent of the Democrats polled said they had a favorable opinion of Mr. Clinton, his highest rating ever. His overall job approval rating among all those surveyed remained fairly steady at 47 percent, down only 4 percentage points from December. Nevertheless, approval ratings at this stage of a campaign are rarely a reliable indicator of how a candidate will fare on Election Day.
The poll was done in a telephone survey of 1,076 adults nationwide from Jan. 18 to 20; it has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
The poll indicates that Mr. Clinton faces a nation that, while uneasy about the economy, is somewhat less gloomy than four years ago. Sixty-four percent of those polled said they were generally dissatisfied with "the way things are going in the United States at this time."
But the public does not appear to be fixated on a single issue, as when President George Bush was gearing up for his re-election campaign. At this time in 1992, an overwhelming 51 percent of those surveyed cited the economy and jobs as the nation's most pressing problem.
Asked in the current survey to identify the most important problem facing the country, 19 percent cited the deficit, up from only 8 percent in October. While that figure shows that the entire public is not preoccupied with the deficit, 19 percent is a significant number because most other issues scored in only single digits. The surge of interest in the deficit might also reflect heavy news coverage of the issue. Seventeen percent identified the economy and jobs as the most important issue, followed by 13 percent citing crime and violence.
And, in answer to a separate question, 68 percent said balancing the budget was more important than cutting taxes; 27 percent said a tax cut was more important.
In a follow-up interview yesterday, one of the poll respondents, Alexander Dzilvelas of Agoura, Calif., said why he was more concerned about the deficit. "It's been business as usual for too long," said Mr. Dzilvelas, 67, an aerospace consultant. "The interest payments on the debt have become as large as the endowment programs. Whether you're liberal or conservative, you have to be more willing to compromise. The political debate has become increasingly negative, and because of the budget impasse, it's going to continue."
Another respondent, Larry Hoe, 43, a student from Hobart, N.Y., expressed disenchantment with Republicans and Democrats on the deficit issue. He said, "Instead of dealing with the problems, the two parties are spending their time trying to prove which side is better."
With Mr. Clinton fresh from his visit to the troops in Bosnia, his most appreciable gain appears to be in foreign policy. Fifty-percent of those polled approved of the way the President was handling foreign policy, up from 41 percent in December. Specifically, 55 percent approved of the way Mr. Clinton was handling the situation in Bosnia.
On the home front, Mr. Clinton's support seems to be holding firm, despite recent spurts of publicity about Hillary Rodham Clinton's involvement in the Whitewater and White House travel office cases. In separate questions, 6 out of 10 people said that the President, as well as Mrs. Clinton, was mostly telling the truth about Whitewater but was still hiding something.
Americans have long been divided about the First Lady, but her image has been further tarnished in recent weeks. Her unfavorable rating was at a high of 40 percent, while her favorable rating was 36 percent. In comparison, another First Lady, Nancy Reagan, often drew criticism, but her favorable ratings were always three times as high as her unfavorable ratings.
Still, many people were sympathetic to what they consider tough treatment of Mrs. Clinton; 78 percent of those polled said Republicans in Congress had criticized her on Whitewater for partisan gain, and 58 percent said the news media had been harder on her than on other First Ladies.
Just three weeks before the Presidential caucuses in Iowa, the survey of registered voters nationwide indicates that Mr. Clinton would beat the leading Republican, Senator Bob Dole, 51 percent to 40 percent. But in what could be a sign of Mr. Dole's possible weakness, Mr. Clinton does not do so well against a generic Republican nominee. The President still wins, but the tally is 46 percent to 39 percent.
One explanation for Mr. Clinton's strength is that many voters view him as a check on the Republican Congress. Forty-nine percent of the respondents said that if the Republicans continued to control Congress after the 1996 election, it would be better to re-elect Mr. Clinton "to limit the power of Republicans in Congress." Just 39 percent said it would be better to elect a Republican President "to increase the power of Republicans in Congress."
Mr. Clinton scored well on other leadership questions. Fifty-three percent of the voters polled said he had strong qualities of leadership, the highest level since 1993. And 51 percent said he had worked hard to bring about change.
But the President is not winning credit for the improvements in the economy, the poll showed. That might be because many people see little economic improvement themselves. For instance, only 51 percent of those surveyed called the condition of the national economy good, down 7 percentage points since December.
When specifically asked whether Mr. Clinton had made progress in significantly improving the economy, only 35 percent said he had, while 57 percent said he had not. In a split that is essentially unchanged from other readings over the past six months, 44 percent approved of the way Mr. Clinton was handling the economy, while 48 percent disapproved.
Although Steve Forbes, the publishing magnate who entered the race in September, has doubled his strength since December, the survey shows that Mr. Dole continues to hold a commanding lead over the rest of the Republican Presidential field. Among people who said they would vote in the Republican primaries, 43 percent preferred Mr. Dole, while 12 percent were for Mr. Forbes. Patrick J. Buchanan, the former commentator, and Senator Phil Gramm of Texas each got 7 percent support, and the remaining contenders had 2 percent or less.
These national numbers do not reflect the candidates' strength in the early battleground states of Iowa and New Hampshire, where they have concentrated their campaigning and advertising.
By most measures, Mr. Dole has maintained a strong, positive image. Fifty-four percent approved of the way he is handling his job as majority leader, and 62 percent said he had strong leadership qualities. Even though Mr. Dole, 72, would be the oldest person ever to attain the Presidency, that does not bother most voters. Sixty-two percent said his age would not matter that much; 30 percent said it would be an obstacle to being an effective President, and 6 percent said his age would actually help him.
The poll shows that Speaker Newt Gingrich still has quite a negative image with the public, with 34 percent approving the way he handles his job and 55 percent disapproving. After the first year of Republican control of the Congress, 52 percent of those surveyed said Congress had accomplished less than in past years, and only 32 percent said it had accomplished more.
While Mr. Forbes has made a flat tax the centerpiece of his candidacy, and other Republicans have made their own proposals to streamline the tax system, the issue has yet to catch on with most Republicans or Democrats, according to the survey. While the current tax system taxes wealthier people at higher rates than people with less money, a flat tax would use one tax rate for people of all income levels. Twenty-seven percent of those polled favored that idea, 33 percent opposed it, and 38 percent said they did not know enough about it to comment.
Mr. Forbes's rivals have warned that his flat-tax proposal would hurt the middle class because it would eliminate the deduction for home mortgages. When respondents were asked about eliminating that deduction, the support for a flat tax declined by 10 percentage points, the opposition declined by 4 points, and uncertainty went up by 14 points. Six out of 10 of those polled said the rich would benefit most from a flat tax.
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Jan. 18 to 20 with 1,076 adults throughout the United States.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of active residential exchanges in the country. The list of more than 36,000 residential exchanges is maintained by Marketing Systems Group of Philadelphia.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, race, sex, age, and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. For example, it is plus or minus five percentage points for either Democrats or Republicans or independents taken as a group.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in question wording or the order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat different results.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Public's Biggest Concerns" tracks responses to the following question from 1992 through January 1995: What do you think is the most important problem facing the country today? Responses are based on nationwide telephone polls conducted by The New York Times and CBS News. The latest conducted Jan. 18-20 with 1,076 adults. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RANKINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



607 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Clashing Over Welfare Cuts;
Closing of Westchester Benefits Offices Is Criticized

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS 

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE, Jan. 22

 BODY:
Last year, when Frances Gilkes needed to talk to her welfare worker about her benefits, she walked a block and a half from her apartment to the social services office on North Avenue, the main artery in downtown New Rochelle. "It took five minutes at most," said Ms. Gilkes, a 43-year-old mother of three who suffers from a herniated disk, the result of an injury that occurred two years ago when she was doing volunteer work at a senior citizens center.
But a month ago, the Westchester County Department of Social Services closed its New Rochelle office as part of a program that shut down four of eight offices in the county in order to save rent. Now, Ms. Gilkes, who has no car, no money for public transportation and as much trouble walking long distances as some of the elderly people she once helped, says she will have to walk to the office in Mount Vernon, about a mile and a half away. 
 "I pray I'll make it," she said. "But with my back problems, my legs will probably give out."
Westchester officials defend the closings, saying that the four shuttered offices -- in New Rochelle, Ossining, Mount Kisco and Port Chester -- handled only 18 percent of the county welfare cases and were inefficient. All the cases and employees were transferred to other offices, which still leaves Westchester with more welfare offices than most other counties in the state.
"It's economy of scale," said Nancy Shull, the county's Deputy Commissioner of Social Services.
Advocates for the poor, on the other hand, say that the most vulnerable and desperate residents will not get the help they need.
"We're particularly concerned about the elderly," said Rachel Leon, a spokeswoman for Hunger Action Network of New York State. "How are they going to get to these offices? We've asked Social Services to help with transportation, and they've refused. Westchester has one of the worst records in the state when it comes to treatment of clients. This is adding insult to injury."
National welfare experts say that such a reduction in district offices is unusual, and that they have not seen similar cutbacks elsewhere in the country. But they hasten to add that such closings may become a part of a national trend as local governments seek to cut costs in this era of fiscal pruning. On Long Island, the Suffolk County Department of Social Services is to close its Mastic office in two months, leaving the county with five welfare centers instead of six.
Westchester, which has cut welfare costs with a workfare program and strict enforcement of welfare eligibility rules, has already captured the attention of proponents of change in the welfare system. In New York City, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has started a workfare program similar to Westchester's that stresses fraud prevention and enforcement. Gov. George E. Pataki has hailed Westchester as a model for state welfare reform, even bringing Mary E. Glass, the county's Commissioner of Social Services, up to Albany to head the state's Department of Social Services, during the early days of his administration.
Westchester's two major reform initiatives have saved about $62 million for the county, state and Federal government, according to Norman Shaw, a spokesman for the county's Department of Social Services. The reduction in welfare offices is expected to save a pittance by comparison, about $900,000 a year in rent, leading some advocates for the poor to question the motive for the closings.
"We're beginning to believe that this is a way to discourage people from accessing services," said Jacquetta Cole, a director of the New Rochelle Community Action Program, an organization that rose out of Lyndon Johnson's "War on Poverty" initiative. Ms. Cole says her organization has offered Social Services free space for a satellite office in New Rochelle, but has not yet received a response. "If they're considering it," she said, "we don't know anything about it."
While acknowledging that the closings would present a hardship for some people, Ms. Shull, the Deputy Commissioner, denied that the action was aimed at trimming the welfare rolls, and she predicted that it would have no such impact. The district office in Ossining closed at the end of September, and "we've seen no reduction in activity or cases from the Ossining-Tarrytown area," she said.
Before the cutback, Westchester had more district offices than any county in the state with the exception of those in New York City, which has 40 welfare centers in the five boroughs. "Most counties in New York only have one," said Dr. Anthony Cupaiuolo, director of the Michaelian Institute for Public Policy at Pace University. He added that he did not expect the office closings to result in a reduction in the welfare rolls.
"Westchester is actually progressive," he said. "It's still providing more access" than most other counties. Nassau County, for example, has only two district offices.
The closings in Westchester would not only save money, Ms. Shull said, but it would also allow Social Services to operate more efficiently and better handle changes in the welfare system being proposed by the state and Federal government.
The centers that were shut down did not offer a full range of benefits, Ms. Shull said, noting that the New Rochelle office did not place the homeless in shelters or help people with foster care needs. And the office in Mount Kisco, which closed on Jan. 8, did not help people with Medicaid benefits or foster care.
The Yonkers office, which manages 49.6 percent of the county's public assistance caseload, was not affected. The three other offices that remain open are in Mount Vernon, Peekskill and White Plains.
But advocates for the poor say that whatever the reasons for the closings, many of the county's 17,800 public assistance recipients, whose nerves are already frayed by what they call an unwieldy bureaucracy, will become more frustrated. At worst, they say, fewer poor people, will apply for help.
Dennis Hanratty, executive director of Mount Vernon United Tenants, which receives about 35 percent of its money from the county's Social Services Department, agreed. He predicted that elderly residents of low-crime areas like Pelham and Mamaroneck, who were formerly assigned to the New Rochelle office, would be apprehensive to venture into Mount Vernon, a city struggling with drug and crime problems. "It's going to be horrible," he said.
But fear of being mugged is not the primary concern of Ursula Greenridge, a 66-year-old New Rochelle resident who is fighting to have her food stamps benefits restored. Ms. Greenridge, a native of Barbados who rarely leaves her apartment except to get dialysis treatments three times a week and to eat dinner at a local soup kitchen, said she feared getting lost in the city.
"I don't know Mount Vernon," she said, tightly clutching her forehead. "I don't know where the place is. I don't know how I'll get there."
Social Service officials say welfare recipients only have to visit their district offices once a year. But that contention was widely disputed by clients and advocates for the poor.
"There are many reasons a client might need to go in," said Jerrold Levy, an attorney with Westchester-Putnam Legal Services. Many public assistance recipients get more than one benefit, and sometimes, they must come in for a separate certification for each benefit. Emergency situations -- an eviction, lack of heat, a broken refrigerator, problems with day care -- might prompt visits.
"Crisis is normalcy for these clients," Mr. Levy said. "At the very least, people will go in twice a year, and many will go in 10 to 15 times a year."
Ms. Gilkes said she visited the New Rochelle center more than two dozen times last year. "You have to bring in this document, then that document," she said.
Although many documents needed to process benefits can be sent through the mail, advocates for the poor say they are often lost through bureaucratic bungling or carelessness.
Ms. Gilkes agreed. "They tell you they never got it," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frances Gilkes of New Rochelle, who suffers from a herniated disk, says she will have to walk to the nearest welfare office, which is more than a mile away. "I pray I'll make it," she said, "but with my back problems, my legs will probably give out." (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)
 
Map shows the sites of open and closed welfare offices in Westchester county. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL SERVICES (86%); NEW ROCHELLE COMMUNITY (76%); WESTCHESTER COUNTY DEPARTMENT (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER COUNTY DEPARTMENT (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW ROCHELLE (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); AGING (75%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); TRENDS (74%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); MAYORS (72%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, MONTE RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



608 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
CHECHEN REBEL LEADER EMERGES
Russia's humiliation at the hands of Chechen guerrillas deepened further when the rebel leader emerged from seclusion to ridicule his enemies and promise that the fight would continue. A1
 
JAPANESE VOW TO DEREGULATE
The Japanese Prime Minister pledged far-reaching changes in Japan's economic structure, but his promises were short on specifics, raising some doubts. A2
 
In Japan, even toddlers feel the urge to excel. A3
 
A CHALLENGE TO ARAFAT
The victory of a local leader in Bethlehem who opposes Yasir Arafat is a sign that the new legislative council would include a new brand of leaders who could provide a strong challenge. A6
 
 AFRICA FEELS SLIGHTED ON AID
An American warning on the crisis in Liberia also pointed up to African leaders that the response from the rest of the world often comes too late to be helpful. A7
 
POLISH EX-DISSIDENT'S FEARS
A Polish former dissident wrote that the nation's intelligence services have switches allegiances, but are just as powerful as they were in the Communist era. A8
 
Croatia and Yugoslavia are at odds over a peninsula. A8
 
Jidda Journal: Saudis feast freely from satellite dishes. A4
 
National A10-13, B6-8
 
OPTIONS NARROW, SECRETARY SAYS
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin told Republicans that he could not keep the Government from defaulting on its debts after Feb. 29 without selling off the gold reserve or delaying tax refunds. A1
 
HILLARY CLINTON IS SUBPOENAED
Hillary Rodham Clinton was ordered to appear before a Federal grand jury that is investigating whether anyone at the White House obstructed justice in the handling of records from the First Lady's former law firm. A1
 
A SHIFT IN FOCUS
The State of the Union Message usually focuses all eyes on the President, but because of the budget standoff and Presidential politics, the Republicans are drawing plenty of attention to themselves. A1
 
THE LOOKING-GLASS WAR
The Republican-led 104th Congress has been nasty, brutish and so long that unending combat pushed the 1995 session into 1996. In short, it was pretty much like the Democratic Congress that preceded it. B6
 
CHRISTIAN SCIENTISTS REBUFFED
The Supreme Court let stand a $1.5 million award to a man who had sued his former wife and three other Christian Scientists after, on religious grounds, they withheld insulin from his diabetic 11-year-old son, who subsequently died. A1
 
DEFICIT IS TOP PUBLIC ISSUE
Prolonged turmoil on Capitol Hill over balancing the budget has propelled the deficit to the top of the public agenda, displacing crime and the economy, a New York Times/ CBS News Poll has found. B7
 
WAR ON HIRING ILLEGAL ALIENS
President Clinton is expected to issue an order barring Federal contracts with companies that violate immigration law by hiring undocumented immigrants, Administration officials said. A12
 
PEROT REDUX
While another wealthy businessman with Presidential ambitions, Steve Forbes, has been getting most of the notice, Ross Perot has been setting up the apparatus to mount his second campaign outside the two-party structure. A10
 
SIMPSON, UNDER OATH
More than three months after he was acquitted of murder charges, O. J. Simpson answered questions under oath in civil lawsuits filed by the families of the two people he was accused of killing. A10
 
The Army is destroying tons of chemical weapons. B6
 
Abortion opponents march by the thousands in Washington. B8
 
A Federal effort is asked against anti-Christian attacks. A13
 
Metro Section B1-5
 
THE DELUGE IN WALTON
In two days this weekend, a surge of 25 billion gallons of water from heavy rains and melting snow -- more than 100 times the average amount for two winter days -- poured down the hillsides around Walton into the west branch of the Delaware River and into New York City's Cannonsville Reservoir. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-11
 
The gut has a mind of its own, scientists say. C1
 
Scientist at Work: Dr. Vilayanur Ramachandran, neurologist. C1
 
Where to look next for life in other solar systems. C1
 
Fashion Page B16
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-22
 
NEW PROMINENCE FOR OLD STATUE
After decades in the background, a three-foot figure of a youth is found by experts to be the only statue by Michelangelo in Manhattan. A1
 
Hollywood producer's death. C13
 
Theater: "The Preservation Society." C13
 
Music: Verdi program. C13
 
Sports B9-15
 
Which Knicks will show up against the Bulls? B9
 
Obituaries D23
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
More budget woes for the city.
 
The N.C.A.A. gets it right.
 
The Mexican connection.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Steve, Bob, Bill, etc.
 
A. M. Rosenthal: As night the day.
 
Alvin Rabushka: Flat tax lite.
 
Harold J. Rothwax: O. J. Simpson, under oath.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Chess C10
 
Crossword C22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (91%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); AFRICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LIBERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); AFRICA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LIBERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POLITICS (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); LAWYERS (65%); GRAND JURY (64%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); FOREIGN LABOR (60%); DIABETES (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



609 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: A Flood-Torn Village Finds It Has Friends From the City

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

DATELINE: WALTON, N.Y., Jan. 22

 BODY:
On one side of the mud-caked street, firefighters from the Bronx unloaded pumps and coils of garden hose. On the other, a dozen firefighters from the Westchester village of Buchanan manned heavy hoses sucking water from the flooded basement of a drugstore.
The men, all more than 100 miles from home, were helping the 6,000 stunned residents of this flood-ravaged town deep in the waterlogged hills of Delaware County recover from the worst flash flood in memory. 
 In two days this weekend, a surge of 25 billion gallons of water from heavy rains and melting snow -- more than 100 times the average amount for two winter days -- poured down the hillsides around Walton into the west branch of the Delaware River and on into New York City's Cannonsville Reservoir.
On its way, the water wreaked havoc. On Friday night, a road collapsed, sending two children, their parents and an uncle to watery deaths, along with another man, whose body was still being sought today. Downtown Walton was inundated. Fire apparently caused by electrical short circuits brought on by the rising waters destroyed two stores.
Gov. George E. Pataki flew to Walton by helicopter today with pledges of state aid and to announce a request for Federal disaster relief. He declined to estimate the damage caused by flooding in New York, as did officials in New Jersey, but authorities in Pennsylvania estimated the damage there at more than $700 million. [Page B4.]
Although it brought tragedy and economic paralysis, the flooding in Delaware County helped cement a newborn partnership with New York City, which draws much of its drinking water from the area. The city sent 50 pumps, 8 highway engineers and more than a dozen trucks to help with the cleanup.
There was plenty of work to be done. Two hundred of Delaware County's 352 bridges were damaged in the flood, with 11 ruined beyond repair, said Ray Christensen, chairman of the County Board of Supervisors. In the village of Margaretville, several stores were washed away. Hundreds of miles of roads were so undercut, cracked or crumbling that the county had run out of orange plastic caution cones.
Jack Kelly, Mayor of the village of Walton, part of the town of the same name, stood in mud today and stared at the charred, icicle-fringed remains of the burned-out clothing and hardware stores on Main Street.
"Everything was starting to go right," Mayor Kelly said. "We'd just finished upgrading our water system, we'd repaved a lot of roads. This has taken the heart out of Walton."
Today, the town and surrounding communities came to life in a rumble of heavy trucks and front-end loaders and in a flurry of volunteerism. Residents whose homes were above the high-water mark helped neighbors shovel muck from living rooms and shop floors.
"The only other time I was up here was to go snowmobiling and such," said Lieut. Donald Scheuber of the Buchanan Fire Department as he oversaw a dozen other Buchanan firefighters sending a stream of water from the Walton drugstore into a storm drain leading back into the river from which the water came three days earlier.
The Buchanan firefighters had left home at dawn in the converted school bus they normally use to travel to parades, Lieutenant Scheuber said. They had not yet worked out where they would spend the next few nights.
"We came up here to work," Lieutenant Scheuber said. "We'll work out where to sleep later."
Towns that were out of harm's way sent firetrucks, front-end loaders, dump trucks and buses to help in cleanups.
In the Annex, a diner 50 feet from the ruins of the hardware store, two customers sipped coffee and listened on a portable radio as a local station interviewed the store's owner, Charles Fiumera. "My store's gone, but I'm still kicking," he said.
At the offices of the local weekly newspaper, The Reporter, Len Govern, a vice president of The Reporter Company, which owns the paper, held up a battered but intact bottle of Bols peppermint liqueur that had washed a quarter of a mile down Delaware Street from a liquor store.
Nearby, 2 of the newspaper's 50 employees, their feet in red mud, were sitting at computer terminals preparing the paper's next issue. "We come out every Wednesday," Mr. Govern said, "and that includes this Wednesday."
Before dawn, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani dispatched his Environmental Protection Commissioner, Marilyn Gelber, to survey the damage in towns around the reservoirs and help foster good relations with the people here.
In silence, she stood alone, surveying the gaping chasm in the city-owned road where six people had died. The road had collapsed when a dam holding back an eight-acre pond by a restaurant gave way, she said. Another city water official said the road had stood solidly for 125 years but could not withstand such a massive blast of water.
Ms. Gelber said the flood would have some positive impact. The city, she said, was exploring ways to accelerate a plan to provide economic assistance to Walton and other watershed towns.
Next month, the city is to sign a landmark pact with the watershed communities that will send more than $1 billion to the Catskills and other watershed regions to protect water quality while spurring some development of these economically ailing communities.
But today, New York City was supplying the simple things that Walton residents needed most: 2,000 orange highway cones, truckloads of gravel and many pairs of helping hands.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Lambertville, N.J. (top), Stephen and Sue Meserve, left, and John Wiedemann readied a boat to use as a ferry across flood waters. In Harrisburg, Pa., workers righted a train derailed by a rising Susquehanna River. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1); The small Delaware County town of Walton, N.Y., was starting to recover yesterday from a major flood. Ann Lezer worked in the kitchen of her friend Sarah Gray as she helped salvage her belongings. (Michael Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELAWARE COUNTY REAL ESTATE (70%); BUCHANAN FIRE DEPARTMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUCHANAN FIRE DEPARTMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WALTON (NY); DELAWARE COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; DELAWARE COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FEDERAL AID (US); FLOODS; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); WEATHER (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); COUNTIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ENGINEERING (67%); HARDWARE STORES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); WATER QUALITY (62%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (68%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



610 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Pennsylvania Flood Losses Could Reach $700 Million

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: HARRISBURG, Pa., Jan. 22

 BODY:
As the flood waters of Pennsylvania's big rivers receded today from their overflow levels of the weekend, thousands of residents returned to their homes only to find them uninhabitable, and the state said the economic losses could reach $700 million.
From the Susquehanna and Delaware Rivers in the eastern half of the state to the Ohio and Monongahela Rivers out west, Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania blamed the flooding for 14 deaths, damage to 30,000 homes, the closing of 570 roads and the destruction of 8 bridges. 
 Pennsylvania was among the states hardest hit by this month's blizzard, which left some areas under more than 40 inches of snow. Now, its vast system of rivers have made it, so far, the state most affected by the melt.
"We've never had four seasons of weather pushed together in a two-week period of time in the middle of January," Governor Ridge said at a news conference today, citing problems caused by the rapid succession of heavy snowfalls, warming temperatures and rain that flooded scores of communities around the state in the last few days.
Today, the Federal Emergency Management Agency added 26 counties to the list of those in Pennsylvania that have been declared disaster areas, bringing the total number to 32. More are expected. Mr. Ridge has asked for Federal assistance for 58 counties -- all but 9 in the state.
James Lee Witt, the F.E.M.A. director, said at the news conference that the others would be assessed shortly and would probably receive Federal funds. The lag has caused a minor stir between Mr. Ridge, a Republican elected in 1994, and the White House.
After touring damaged areas on Sunday, Mr. Ridge criticized the Administration for not reacting fast enough to help the state, a jab he knew the White House could not ignore, given the state's importance to President Clinton in the 1996 elections.
By Sunday night, after Mr. Ridge spoke by telephone with President Clinton, the controversy had quieted. At the news conference, which followed Mr. Ridge's meeting with Mr. Witt and Transportation Secretary Federico F. Pena, Mr. Witt assured Mr. Ridge the state would get all the help it deserved, and that seemed to satisfy the Governor.
But Mr. Ridge's remarks drew a sharp response today from Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, who said that Mr. Ridge "ran his mouth instead of getting the work done that would have led to getting their assistance."
"It's the wrong way to do business, to go out and attack the President and the Administration," Mr. McCurry said.
At the news conference, Mr. Ridge said: "I don't want to respond to the President's press secretary. My job is to promote the interests of Pennsylvania citizens."
To assess the damage around the state, Mr. Witt, Mr. Pena and other Federal officials left Washington this morning for a tour of Altoona, Wilkes-Barre, Harrisburg and Pittsburgh. Along the way, they saw all manner of problems caused by the floods.
State officials said that 28 water plants had been destroyed by the floods, well water had been contaminated in countless areas, 150,000 people served by 18 water systems had been told to boil water before drinking and 116 Red Cross shelters had been set up to house people who were forced to evacuate their homes.
In Pittsburgh, where three major rivers -- the Monongahela, Allegheny and Ohio -- converge, cleanup crews struggled with the worst flooding in western Pennsylvania since 1972. Freezing temperatures left huge chunks of ice on roadways and riverbanks throughout the areas after the rivers crested at more than 18 feet above normal levels.
Coal barges were forced to tie up when they were unable to pass through locks, but dozens of barges broke loose and remain wedged against bridge pillars or dam gates.
A 200-foot barge used by the Pittsburgh Wind Symphony ended up on a low-lying city parking lot on top of several automobiles caught by the fast-rising waters.
John Comey, a spokesman for the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency, said that a trailer park had washed away in Williamsport, that 1,300 homes in Scranton had water in their basements and that icy waters were still well above flood level in parts of Bloomsburg, Danville and Harrisburg.
Here in Harrisburg, residents of a historic section of riverfront town houses, who had been evacuated as the Susquehanna rose, suffered another blow this morning when a fire caused serious damage to five homes along Pancake Row that had been built in 1897.
Denise I. Robison, deputy secretary for the State Department of Aging, lives in a house at one end of the row. She said she was not only heartened to find that her house was still standing, but also that the flag she hangs over her balcony was still flying. It says, "Don't Give Up the Ship."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As thousands returned to their muddy homes, a man and woman picked their way among chunks of ice left on a Harrisburg street. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA; UNITED STATES (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (92%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; FLOODS RIVERS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); WEATHER (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



611 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falters Against Mark After Meeting of the Group of 7

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar faltered against European currencies yesterday after a weekend meeting of industrial nations, worrisome headlines from the Federal budget battle and political uncertainty in Italy and Sweden.
In late New York trading, the dollar slipped to 1.4771 German marks, from 1.4810 marks on Friday. The dollar rose to 105.77 yen, from 105.46 on Friday. 
 The Group of Seven industrial nations emerged from their Saturday meeting with little substantive comment on the dollar, in marked contrast with an April 1995 meeting that set the stage for a coordinated effort to pull the dollar up from record lows.
Some dealers had expected the leaders to push for a stronger dollar as a means to revive economic growth in Europe, particularly in Germany.
Bundesbank officials, including the German central bank's president, Hans Tietmeyer, spoke about the merits of a strong dollar, but they also dampened expectations of further reductions in German interest rates.
Dealers took profits from a powerful rally last week when they saw the dollar's surge running out of steam.
"This is pretty much a profit-taking move," said Steven Jury, chief dealer at the Union Bank of Switzerland. "It seems as if the market is unable to get much of a rally at all."
The dollar was weighed down by weakness in the Italian lira and Swedish krona against the German mark, as currency players grew edgy that Rome would not easily resolve political wrangling and that Swedish proposals to increase social security benefits would increase state spending.
The House Republican majority leader, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, rattled the financial markets with weekend comments that any bill to raise the United States debt ceiling from $4.9 trillion would be accompanied by Republican conditions, such as scaling back Government departments.
Dealers said the currency market was disturbed by revived talk of a debt default, even though few considered default a likely outcome. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (68%); UBS (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (68%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); SWEDEN (93%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); 

COMPANY: UBS AG (68%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; JAPAN; ITALY; SWEDEN; EUROPE (94%); SWEDEN (93%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CURRENCIES (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



612 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: TREASURY CHIEF WARNS CONGRESS ABOUT DEFAULT

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin told Republican Congressional leaders today that he has run out of legal options to sidestep the national borrowing limit and cannot keep the Government from defaulting on its debts after Feb. 29 without selling off the national gold reserve or holding up tax refunds.
But Mr. Rubin described those options as "completely unacceptable" to President Clinton, throwing the issue back at the Republicans, who have tried to use the debt limit as a weapon in the war over the Federal budget. 
 As each side tried to force the other's hand, Republican leaders raised the ante today. Speaker Newt Gingrich said the only way for the President to get the authority to pay the nation's bills -- including $30 billion in Social Security, veterans and other retirement payments due on March 1 -- is to accede to much of the Republican agenda.
That is a demand Mr. Clinton has refused to meet, saying he would not be blackmailed by the threat of national default.
"We are, quite frankly, at an impasse," Mr. Gingrich said.
Mr. Rubin has the authority to sell part of America's gold reserve to raise money, but it is a step many have warned against because it could destabilize the American currency. He could also delay sending refunds to the 70 million or so taxpayers who are owed money by the Internal Revenue Service. But as a White House official put it the other day, "I've heard brighter ideas in an election year."
Mr. Rubin's declaration was in a letter to Mr. Gingrich and came after the markets closed, so it was impossible to tell how investors around the world would react to his statement that he could not or would not prevent default if Congress fails to act by the end of next month.
Both Democrats and Republicans have expressed fear that foreign investors in particular would begin to charge a premium for lending money to the United States Government, touching off a rise in interest rates that would quickly affect the cost of home mortgages and other loans. So far the effects on the market have been minimal, apparently because investors have concluded that Mr. Rubin and the Republican leaders are snarling and threatening, but would not actually let the United States go into default for the first time in its history.
"We're in the end game now," one senior Administration official said tonight.
President Clinton was deeply involved in the decision made today, Administration officials insisted, but in public he has stuck to generalities, urging Congress to pass a "clean" extension of the debt limit, one that carries no conditions on the rest of the Republican agenda. "I don't think we should default on the debt," Mr. Clinton told reporters. "I think that would be a terrible mistake."
 Until today, Republican leaders appeared to have assumed that Mr. Rubin would find legal authority to tap other Government trust funds to keep the Government running, even in the absence of an increased debt limit. One option would be to use money from the Social Security Trust Fund, but the President has said publicly he would not do that.
A week ago several Republican leaders, including Mr. Gingrich and the chairman of the House Budget Committee, John R. Kasich of Ohio, suggested that they would find a way to extend the debt ceiling, which allows the Government to borrow money to pay for expenses that exceed its revenues. But this afternoon, Mr. Gingrich seemed to backpedal, moving toward the hard line that his second-in-command, Representative Dick Armey, the House majority leader, had set on Sunday on NBC News's "Meet the Press."
Mr. Gingrich said that House Republicans would insist on two conditions before they agreed to a new debt ceiling. He said the first was to act "when the President feels there are no more gimmicks" to increase the Government's spending powers -- a condition apparently met today -- and the second was that Mr. Clinton accept a debt ceiling bill that included some of the Republicans' legislative goals.
"The President wants a debt ceiling and we want to know what he is prepared to sign to get that debt ceiling," Mr. Gingrich said at a news conference in his Capitol Hill office. "With the absence of that, we are, quite frankly, at an impasse."
The Speaker said that among the issues that House Republicans want the President to sign off on are some of their proposed changes in entitlement programs. He also said that White House acceptance of the Senate version of a welfare bill would be "a good start" toward negotiating a new debt ceiling bill.
"What we need are clear indications of reforms he will sign," Mr. Gingrich said. "No more promissory notes, no more i.o.u.'s."
By finding ways around the debt ceiling until now, Mr. Rubin has successfully prevented the Republicans from using the threat of default as a lever in their budget negotiations. In the process, he has angered Republicans, some of whom suggested he was stretching his legal authority beyond its proper grounds.
But it was a game with limits, and during a nine-hour meeting at the Treasury on Sunday, shortly after he returned from a meeting of finance ministers in Paris, Mr. Rubin decided he had made his last big move. In the end, he approved some minor steps that will allow him to keep financing the Government between Feb. 15 -- when Treasury estimates its current money will run out -- and Feb. 29, when an interest payment of $5.8 billion is due to holders of Treasury securities.
In the meeting, Mr. Rubin rejected taking a complex but creative step that his lawyers had been examining for weeks: Making use of $75 billion in the Federal Financing Bank, which holds the debt obligations of a number of Federal agencies. "We determined he did not have clear enough authority," one senior Treasury official said.
In his letter today, Mr. Rubin laid out for the first time three short-term steps he will take to get the Government through the month of February. He will suspend the reinvestment of $3.9 billion in Treasury securities held in the Exchange Stabilization Fund, the fund used to keep the dollar's value steady against foreign currencies.
That will exhaust the fund's holdings of dollars, though it will still contain $17 billion in Japanese yen and German marks. Treasury officials concluded that it would be too difficult to convert those holdings to dollars and too risky, because it would leave the United States defenseless if there were a run on the dollar.
Mr. Rubin will also exchange roughly $9 billion in assets held by the Federal Financing Bank. In a complex transaction, the Treasury would be able to cancel some of its own securities held by the bank, giving it additional room to borrow without technically hitting the debt limit.
In a third step, he will also redeem about $6.4 billion in Treasury debt held by the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, exchanging it for an i.o.u. that, in a quirk of accounting, does not count against the debt limit.
After that, he wrote to Mr. Gingrich, "there are no other actions that we will be able or willing to take."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker Newt Gingrich said yesterday that the only way for the President to be able to pay the nation's bills would be to accede to much of the Republican agenda. He met with Representative Tom DeLay, at left. (Associated Press)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; DEFAULTING ; FLAT TAX TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); TAX LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (63%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC); SANGER, DAVID E; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



613 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Tax Proposals Flout Equality

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Radical reform of the income tax system appears to be a more certain prospect should any of the leading Republican Presidential contenders be elected. What their proposals have in common -- be they versions of a flat tax, a value-added tax or a national sales tax -- is the elimination of the progressivity that remains in the tax system. 
 A tax system that takes a constant share from on all incomes, from $10,000 to $10 million, would raise fundamental concerns about such a system's compatibility with the American ideal of equality. America is becoming an unequal society; the degree of income inequality is the highest in the industrialized world. The steady elimination of progressivity from the tax system has contributed to these outcomes.
A progressive income tax reduces economic instability. Under it, if the economy is booming, a larger fraction of national income is siphoned away through taxes than under a proportional or flat tax system, thus cooling the boom. Conversely, in a recession, significantly less income is taken, thus moderating the recession. A flat tax will make more difficult the task of taming the business cycle.
 
PATRICK M. BOARMAN
San Diego, Jan. 20, 1996
 
The writer is professor emeritus of economics, National University-San Diego.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL UNIVERSITY-SAN DIEGO (61%); G O P (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: G O P (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; FLAT TAX TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VALUE ADDED TAX (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BOARMAN, PETER M (PROF) PATRICK M BOARMAN SAN DIEGO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



614 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: An Insurer's Dream, With No Middleman;
ITT Hartford Thrives on Retiree Group

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT 

 BODY:
In the troubled world of insurance, the news lately has been of mergers and layoffs, record claims and stagnant returns. It is about the last industry where you would expect a company to build a new business of more than $1 billion in revenues in little more than a decade..
But that is what ITT Hartford has done. In 1984 it was selected to sell auto and homeowners insurance to members of the American Association of Retired Persons, and that business soared to about $1.1 billion in premiums last year. That makes it one of the fastest-growing parts of the company, and a standout in an industry not growing much faster than the economy. 
 But the importance of the account to ITT Hartford goes far beyond growth and profits. Creating a division to serve the association's members -- a group whose only common denominator is that they are 50 and over -- was a breath of fresh air that pushed the 186-year-old insurer to adopt new ways of doing business. And it has helped ITT Hartford, now independent after 25 years as a subsidiary of the ITT Corporation, keep a competitive edge in a business full of casualties.
The formula exemplifies the direction that analysts say property and casualty insurers must head if they are to shake off their torpor: a clear focus on a distinct group of customers, an emphasis on serving them, and a concerted effort to squeeze costs, notably by cutting out the middleman -- the insurance agent.
Insurers that focus on such "affinity groups" -- from makers of steel storage tanks to florists -- can develop expertise in evaluating risks that other insurers might overlook or exaggerate, and can establish vital connections.
But also crucial to the A.A.R.P. business is the direct link with the customer created by the elimination of agents or brokers to sell policies or handle claims. Not only does that get rid of agents' commissions -- 10 to 20 percent of premiums -- but it makes for a company that can learn about its customers firsthand.
"ITT Hartford has put itself in a position where it is the owner of the customer relationship, not the agent," said B. Joseph Pine 2d, president of Strategic Horizons, a consulting firm in Ridgefield, Conn. By making the most of computers and communications equipment, he said, the company can "learn more about the needs and desires of the A.A.R.P. members -- and then customize products for them that other insurers can't match."
With more than 35 million members now, and 12 million baby boomers turning 50 in the next 12 years, the A.A.R.P. offers a huge pool of potential customers, even bigger than the population of military officers that form the core of the insurance business built by the widely admired USAA. And most important for ITT Hartford, the association membership has enough wealth to own cars and homes that need insuring, and enough income to pay for the insurance.
While no other such group can match the A.A.R.P. for size, ITT Hartford and other insurers are pushing hard to find other pockets of desirable customers. Stephen J. Hasenmiller, senior vice president in charge of all personal insurance lines, noted that employer-sponsored plans were among the company's fastest-growing businesses, and relied on highly efficient customer service centers modeled on the A.A.R.P. program. Companies like United Airlines or the PNC Corporation select ITT Hartford and open their doors to sales agents offering insurance.
Although agents' share of the property-liability business has been shrinking industrywide, ITT Hartford is not scrapping agents. "There will always be people who for one reason or another want to do business with an agent," said Michael H. Hughes, a vice president who heads the A.A.R.P. account.
Even if the A.A.R.P. approach is not suitable for all customers, Mr. Hasenmiller noted that the skills acquired in handling the association's business were helping other parts of the company. Service centers for agent-sold insurance, many of them managed by personnel with experience in the A.A.R.P. program, now handle many routine chores like renewals. The centers are driving costs down rapidly, he said, "leaving the agents more time to sell."
For affinity programs like the A.A.R.P. to work effectively, both the insurer and the customers must think they are getting a good deal.
ITT Hartford is overjoyed at the 94 percent renewal rate for A.A.R.P. customers. The company knows that older drivers are not such high risks as their reputation would indicate because they drive fewer miles and tend to stay off the roads at night and in bad weather. The business consistently operates with lower expenses and claims costs than other insurers. And while ITT Hartford does not publish profits separately for that business, in 1994, for every dollar it collected in premiums, it had $1.026 in operating costs, compared with $1.045 for the industry as a whole. (The company still has a profit because of the interest it earns on premiums.)
For A.A.R.P. customers, the ITT Hartford arrangement offers a policy that is cheaper than average -- but not guaranteed to be the lowest. Beyond price, there are a host of special features and services intended to foster good relations between customers and the 2,000 or so workers who handle their accounts.
Policies, for example, include a promise that car insurance will be renewed despite any number of minor accidents and violations, so long as there are no serious lapses, like a drunken-driving charge.
"The idea that the insurance will be renewed really matters to a lot of people," said Anna Cirielli, a customer service representative. "I get lots of calls from people whose insurance company wouldn't renew, just because they turned 75."
Direct communication between the company and the customer, and a willingness to create a special division were among the requirements set by A.A.R.P. executives in Washington when they selected ITT Hartford in 1983, and again in 1992, when they renewed the agreement. The insurer pays the association a fee of 3 percent of premiums.
"We are comfortable with a direct approach because it allows us to really know what is being communicated to our members," said Susanne Bowman, head of insurance services at A.A.R.P. Not only does the arrangement allow the company to control the training and actions of its workers more closely, but it also makes it easier for the association's officials to monitor phone calls, and even pose as customers, she noted.
The most common complaint, she said, comes from members turned down for insurance because of such special risks as having a home within 1,000 feet of the ocean.
The association declined to make members available to answer questions about their satisfaction with ITT Hartford, and state insurance departments do not break out complaint data on the A.A.R.P. business.
Over all, ITT Hartford has a better than average track record in New York State, with 0.13 valid complaint per $1 million in premiums, compared with a median of 0.21 for all property insurers. In New Jersey, its performance was slightly below par: 0.39 valid complaint per 1,000 vehicles insured, compared with a median of 0.34.
The A.A.R.P. business is run from three buildings set amid gently rolling hills in Southington, a 20-minute drive from "the tower" at the Hartford headquarters. "We started fresh in our own building, and one reason was so that nobody would be around to say, 'But we never did it that way,' " said Trudy Daly, an assistant vice president.
On the surface, the rows of cubicles -- packed with computers, telephones and giant books of minutiae about policies and car parts -- look much like a telephone service center for a credit card company or mail-order house. A big television screen shows workers how many calls are waiting and how close they are to the goal of answering 85 percent of calls within one minute.
 But behind the technology there is a concerted effort to create a "culture," another name for esprit de corps and dedication to a common cause, the A.A.R.P. customer.
About 50 advisers like Matt Nichols are trained to handle the special needs of the more than 10,000 calls a year received from widowed customers -- even to the point of calling social service agencies or helping someone stand up to an overly aggressive car salesman. "I've had people who became distraught at the sight of a renewal notice with the deceased spouse's name on it," he said. "It means a lot for them to have someone who will listen."
By sponsoring a pen-pal program and an open house for customers to visit the office, the company tries to create bonds between workers and customers that make the endless series of calls seem less mind-numbing and more personal.
When Phyllis Sheehan noticed that many applications that had been returned to customers because they were incomplete were being submitted again -- still without the needed information -- she recalled learning in a training class about the deterioration in vision that occurs with age. "Yellow is a color that gets harder to see," she said, "so we stopped using yellow highlighters to mark the missing information, and started using blue."
The staff specialists on aging are a crucial part of training and the design of sales brochures and account statements. Even such simple tasks as training customer service representatives to listen a little longer are important in achieving a high level of service.
"We want to cater to the special needs of the A.A.R.P. customers, but we want to do it in a transparent way, so they never know," said Maureen Mohyde, a gerontologist. That can be tricky, she told a recent class of trainees, "because there are plenty of vigorous 55-year-olds who are aging, but wouldn't be called old by anyone except maybe a teen-ager."
The key is to listen closely for the differences among people, she said, and "remember that the differences between us and them are artificial; our customers have just had more birthdays."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 1996, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Tuesday, with an article about ITT Hartford's strategy of selling insurance directly to members of the American Association of Retired Persons, misstated the total premiums received by the company from holders of property-casualty policies. The figures are $6.004 billion in 1991, $5.933 billion in 1992, $6.401 billion in 1993 and $6.728 billion in 1994.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ITT Hartford sells insurance to members of the American Association of Retired Persons from this office complex in Southington, Conn. Association members have a 94 percent renewal rate with the company. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. D22)
 
Graphs: Direct sales are a growing share of new policies and that has been key to gains by ITT Hartford, even as industy sales have been flat. Graphs track U.S. property-casualty premiums written, total ITT Hartford property-casualty premiums written, and net U.S. property-causualty premiums written from 1991 to 1994. (Sources: Insurance Informantion Institute, A.M. Best) (pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ITT (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ASSN OF RETIRED PERSONS (AARP) ITT CORP (85%); AARP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSN OF RETIRED PERSONS (AARP) AARP INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES INSURANCE (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (89%); MERGERS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (73%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); COMMISSION PAY (64%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (60%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1996



615 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
Calling Ralph Bellamy

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
If this were the 1930's, Steve Forbes, a zillionaire's bespectacled son with a passion for numbers, would be played by Ralph Bellamy and would lose the girl to Cary Grant. But this being the madcap 1990's, we are asked to believe that Mr. Forbes is successfully wooing the country. This week he's starring on the covers of both Time and Newsweek. How long before he's standing before Congress, orating on the State of the Union?
Mr. Forbes is not unappealing. He's smart, he seems as genuine as any fellow you might meet in New Jersey horse country and, unlike his Republican competitors, he doesn't seem driven to outlaw a woman's right to choose, establish school prayer or campaign against homosexuality. But the Forbes boom is less a story about Steve Forbes than about restlessness -- of both the media and the voting public. 
 In a dreary primary season, the press is desperate for a horse race. All it took for Mr. Forbes to be anointed "a major player" (NBC) and to transform the campaign "from a drag into a drama" (ABC) was for him to poll within 20 points of Bob Dole in two primary states. So what if Mr. Forbes has never received a vote for elective office in his life, or if the latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll published yesterday shows him the favorite of only 12 percent of Republican primary voters nationwide, vs. Mr. Dole's 43 percent? He's already (ABC again) "either this year's Ross Perot or this year's Ronald Reagan."
As for that 12 percent of Republicans who prefer Mr. Forbes, they are presumably enamored of the flat tax -- since the flat tax is the only policy Mr. Forbes espouses. Like the phantom candidacy of Colin Powell before it -- briefly thought to be an instant panacea for every post-O. J. racial schism in America -- the flat tax is a miracle elixir for our economic future, as simple as filling out a postcard. But aren't the flat-tax fans the same voters who only yesterday placed messianic faith in a balanced budget? Try to find an economist unaligned with the Forbes campaign who says that a middle-class American can have the Forbes flat tax, a tax cut and a balanced budget too.
The press points out this policy conundrum, only to run into Mr. Forbes's filibusters and his nonstop commercials. His relentless advertising might best be countered not by bemoaning it but by making an effort to ferret out his qualifications for the job he seeks. So far only Mr. Forbes's journalistic competitor Fortune shows gusto for the task.
Such is the fog around our would-be President that The Daily News was reduced on Sunday to listing his wife's birthplace as unknown. Despite all Mr. Forbes's bragging about the ad pages he's sold, that alone is hardly a measure of his success in the only executive post he's held -- running the magazine he inherited. As for the tax returns Mr. Forbes refuses to release, they are not the "diversion" he says but an essential capitalist tool for assessing his fiscal citizenship and evaluating his charitable contributions in relation to his wealth. Mr. Forbes prescribes replacing public welfare with private philanthropy -- even as he proposes eliminating the charitable deduction -- without offering hard numbers illustrating how he practices what he preaches. (Nor would his campaign respond to requests for this information by deadline yesterday.)
Thanks to the enterprising Richard Lacayo of Time, we now know that one press certitude about the Forbes campaign -- that the candidate is buying the airwaves with his own cash -- isn't the whole story. Mr. Forbes is actually lending the campaign his money (with interest?) and has campaign contributors like the rest of the pack. Do his fat-cat special interests overlap with Forbes advertisers and story subjects? And how would they benefit from his flat tax?
True, the answers to such questions might dampen the fun. The spectacle of a zillionaire spending money like water is one of the most durable of American entertainments (think of those 30's movies again). The longer Mr. Forbes can get away with robotically flogging a single issue and a mantra of "hope, growth and opportunity," the more the stories of his ascendancy will become self-fulfilling prophecies. At the runaway rate his unexamined media bandwagon is moving, this country could swing from having one of the most scrutinized First Families in its history to a First Family it's never even met.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); FILIBUSTER (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (69%); RELIGION (69%); BUDGETS (67%); CHURCH & STATE (54%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; FORBES, STEVE RONALD REAGAN (79%); FRANK RICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



616 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: 3 Municipal Union Locals Approve 5-Year Contract

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Showing signs that worries about job security are beginning to take hold, three locals in New York City's largest municipal workers' union overwhelmingly approved a proposed five-year contract this week. But several union officials said it was still too close to call whether the agreement would win a majority from the union's 56 locals.
A local representing accountants and auditors working for the city and a local representing computer programmers voted overwhelmingly for the contract, while a large local representing engineers and architects voted in favor by 5 to 3. Those votes more than overcame results announced last week in which workers at the New York City Public Library voted 12 to 1 against the contract. 
 "It's still a cliffhanger," said one official in the 120,000-member union, District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
Even so, the recent votes have come as welcome news to both Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Stanley Hill, the executive director of District Council 37, who was criticized by many rank-and-file members for negotiating a contract that provided no wages increases in its first two years.
But now, Mr. Hill said, members seem to be placing more emphasis on the contract's promises of job security, particularly in light of AT&T's recent announcement of 40,000 layoffs as well as news of a sharp jump in New Jersey's jobless rate.
Mr. Hill pointed to two other anxiety-producing developments that he said would push members to vote for ratification to lock in the contract's job security language. First, several fiscal monitors predicted this week that the city would have to close a $600 million budget gap this year and a $2 billion deficit in the fiscal year beginning July 1. And two weeks ago, City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi frightened many workers by suggesting that layoffs might be needed to balance the city budget.
"All this makes it clearer to members how important job security is," Mr. Hill said.
Joseph Vicinanza, president of Local 1407, the accountants' local, said his members voted 497 to 228 in favor of the contract because "they're a little bit fearful for their jobs, and the contract gives them some security."
Mr. Vicinanza told the story of a member of his local's executive board who had been against the contract, but was so shaken by AT&T's layoffs that he changed his mind.
Nonetheless, he added that many members remained unhappy with "the double zeroes," the zero percent wage increases for the first two years.
For Mayor Giuliani, ratification by District Council 37 is important, because if the giant union joins the United Federation of Teachers in rejecting a contract, his strategy for gaining five years of labor peace will have collapsed. But if District Council 37 embraces the agreement, that will isolate the teachers' union and increase pressure on it to reconsider its rejection.
On Monday, Mr. Giuliani predicted that District 37 would ratify the contract, which is roughly similar to the teachers' agreement, promising three years of job security, no wage increase for two years and a 12 percent raise in the last three years of the five-year accord. Many teachers who voted against the contract said they were unwilling to accept such a wage package at a time when the Mayor and other city officials were getting substantial raises.
Sounding markedly more confident about ratification than he did in early January, Mr. Hill said in an interview: "I'm optimistic. I feel comfortable."
Mr. Hill said he expected to announce the cumulative results from the vote of all 56 locals around Feb. 1, once the last mail ballots are counted. Some locals are voting by mail, and others in meetings of the rank and file.
In the other votes announced this week, Local 375, representing architects and engineers, favored the contract by 1,577 to 903. Local 2627, representing computer programmers, voted 783 in favor of the contract and 169 against.
The story was sharply different in Local 1930, which represents workers in the New York Public Library. Last week it announced that its members voted 619 against the contract and 52 in favor.
Raymond Markey, president of the librarians' local, said, "Our members would not agree to accept two years without a pay increase while the Mayor is increasing his salary by 27 percent, from $130,000 to $165,000."
Several other unions that negotiated along with District Council 37 are also voting this month. A teamsters' local representing workers at the New York City Housing Authority has yet to vote, while Local 1180 of the Communications Workers of America, which represents many municipal computer and communications workers, voted 2,112 against and 347 for.
Arthur Cheliotis, president of Local 1180, said, "There's a strong sentiment out there against the two-year wage freeze because people have been asked to carry a bigger work load and have to pay subway fare increases and pay more tuition for City College and state universities."
Mr. Cheliotis scoffed at the agreement's job security promises, insisting that they could easily be suspended if Mr. Giuliani declared a fiscal emergency.
Mr. Cheliotis predicted that District Council 37 would not ratify the contract. Indeed, ratification has seemed in doubt since late December when Local 420, a large unit representing municipal hospital workers, voted overwhelmingly against the contract by a vote of 4,402 to 34.
That unit voted so overwhelmingly against the agreement because it does not give hospital workers the same job security pledges that it makes to other municipal workers.
But Mr. Hill is counting on his union's largest local -- one representing 22,000 clerical workers -- to help put the contract over the top by delivering a large margin in favor in its mail vote.
Some opponents of the contract criticized Albert Diop, president of the clerical workers' local, saying he stretched out the vote by his local to give him more time to round up votes in favor of the agreement. But local officials said Mr. Diop delayed the vote because of the blizzard. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES; NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS LABOR UNIONS (92%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); LIBRARIES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



617 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
Stroock & Stroock is moving into space vacated in lower Manhattan when Mudge Rose disbanded.

BYLINE: By Mervyn Rothstein 

 BODY:
WHEN the law firm of Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon disbanded in mid-December, it left a large vacancy at 180 Maiden Lane, a 41-story, 1.1 million-square-foot office building in lower Manhattan.
The 126-year-old Mudge Rose, once the legal home of Richard M. Nixon and his Attorney General, John N. Mitchell, had occupied 145,000 square feet of space on the 32d through 36th floors in the 1984 glass tower at South Street. 
 Now, only a month later, the space is spoken for: another downtown law firm, Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, has leased the space for 15 years -- with an option to take another floor -- in a deal valued at nearly $80 million.
The Stroock firm, which has 225 lawyers in New York and a total of more than 300 worldwide, is to relocate in the fall from its current offices a few blocks away at 7 Hanover Square, at Water Street.
The Maiden Lane building, also known as the Continental Center, was once the headquarters of the Continental Corporation, an insurance company. The CNA Financial Corporation, a Chicago-based insurance company whose major shareholder is the Loews Corporation, bought Continental last year for $1.1 billion, and the building now is home to CNA's New York offices.
Stroock still has more than two years left on its Hanover Square lease. John Malino, vice president of real estate at Loews, said that as part of the Stroock transaction, the owner of 180 Maiden Lane -- still officially the Continental Corporation -- had "agreed to get involved with some of the monetary obligations Stroock has to 7 Hanover."
Leonard Boxer, the chairman of Stroock's real estate group, said the Maiden Lane lease was more favorable financially to his firm than was the one at Hanover Square. "Even though our Hanover Square lease expired in 1998, we saw a window to be able to take advantage of the marketplace and make sure we had a deal that brought us into the next century," Mr. Boxer said. "We tried to make a deal with our existing landlord but could not reach an agreement."
The downtown office market has been weak throughout the 90's, and Mr. Boxer said his firm had received some "very attractive proposals" to follow a number of other downtown law firms to midtown. "We had been thinking about midtown for the last year or so," he said, "but we believe in the efforts the city is making to improve things for the downtown community. We decided as a matter of principle that it would be the right thing to stay here."
Another important factor in the decision, he said, was the many amenities available at 180 Maiden Lane, among them a private dining club, a 700-seat restaurant, a 200-seat auditorium and a modern fitness center, "that would improve the quality of life for our people."
Andrew Tisch, chairman of the management committee at Loews, said the deal had taken 29 days to complete, from basic agreement to signed lease, instead of the 4 to 12 months usual in such a transaction. "Stroock saw the space in early December," Mr. Tisch said. "The parties met on Dec. 20 and in about 40 minutes reached agreement on all the economic parameters. We decided to dispose of lawyering the first three drafts and go directly to the final draft."
The deal was signed at 11 A.M. last Thursday. It was brokered by Mort Schrader, John B. Brod and Laura Pomerantz of S. L. Green Real Estate and Mark Weiss of Goldman, Sachs & Company. (Mr. Schrader and Mr. Brod, by the way, were the brokers who originally put Mudge Rose in the space.) Alan Grossman of the Georgetown Company was the consultant for the Continental Corporation.
"Downtown is struggling," Mr. Malino of Loews said. "The fact that a major law firm has decided to stay there is good news."
 
Around the Region
 Props for Today, a supplier of props for theater, movies and television, has signed a 10-year lease for 100,000 square feet on three floors at 330 West 34th Street, an 18-story office building between Eighth and Ninth Avenues. The lease includes 3,000 square feet of ground-floor retail space where originals and replicas of furniture and artifacts used in various productions will be for sale. James D. Kuhn and John Briety of Newmark & Company Real Estate Inc. brokered the deal . . . E.S. Originals Inc., a shoe company, has leased 46,596 square feet on the ninth floor of the 1.5-million-square-foot building at 450 West 33d Street, between 9th and 10th Avenues. Richard Karson of the Edward S. Gordon real estate company, who represented the building's owner, the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, said the 15-year lease had a value of about $15 million. . . . Merchants, NY, a restaurant, has signed a 15-year, $3.6 million lease for 7,500 square feet at 1125 First Avenue, part of a five-story condominium on the southwest corner of 62d Street. The Italian-American nouvelle restaurant has branches at 112 Seventh Avenue, at 17th Street, and 521 Columbus Avenue, at 85th Street. David King of Newmark handled the deal. . . . Information Resources Inc., a marketing research, software and consulting firm with headquarters in Chicago, has leased 50,000 square feet at the 8-story, 250,000-square-foot Merritt View Office Plaza at Route 7 and the Merritt Parkway in Norwalk, Conn. The lease is for 10 years with an aggregate rent of just under $13 million. Jeffrey H. Newman and JoAnn McGrath of W&M Properties of Connecticut represented the building. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CNA (NYSE) (83%); L (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (94%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (82%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN MUDGE ROSE GUTHRIE ALEXANDER & FERDON (94%); STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (94%); CONTINENTAL CORP (91%); CNA FINANCIAL CORP (83%); LOEWS CORP (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RELOCATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (51%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN; ROPS FOR TODAY (CO) RICHARD NIXON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



618 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Edges Higher, Restrained By Worries Over the U.S. Budget

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar moved slightly higher against most leading currencies yesterday, but its advance was restrained by the continuing Federal budget crisis and uncertainty ahead of the State of the Union address.
Word that the Bundesbank, the central bank of Germany, might consider cutting interest rates drove the dollar higher against the mark. That helped the dollar advance against other European currencies, including the French franc, the Italian lira and the Swiss franc. 
 Against the Japanese yen, the dollar continued its moderate advance from Monday but ran into some technical selling.
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.4791 German marks, up from 1.4771 on Monday. The dollar ended at 105.84 Japanese yen, up from 105.77 yen. The British pound rose to $1.5138 from $1.5115.
"Over all, it's been a very narrow-range-trading kind of day," said David Glowacki, a senior trader at NBD Bank in Detroit. "There's really a lot of uncertainty going around -- the budget talks, the State of the Union address tonight."
A senior official of the Bundesbank told a gathering of dignitaries that it would consider another cut of key interest rates as long as growth in money supply remained below targets.
The comments echoed recent statements from German monetary officials but still managed to help the dollar, traders said. Lower interest rates tend to make a nation's currency less valuable because investors can find better returns elsewhere.
The budget dispute in Washington continued to weigh on the dollar.
"It's the uncertainty," said Roger Volz, director of technical analysis at Pegasus Econometric Group in New York. He said traders "just do not want to be caught in a situation where we have an unknown."
Increasing concern that the Federal Government would be forced to default on its financial obligations because of the budget impasse also put pressure on the currency.
In trading against the yen, the dollar ran into selling by Japanese exporters as it neared the 106-yen level, Mr. Glowacki said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: NBD BANK NA (INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA) (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) CURRENCIES (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



619 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Budget Fight Hurts Price Of Long Bond

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of long-term Treasury securities dropped again yesterday, as investors fretted over the stalled budget negotiations and faced a large supply of new securities.
The uncertainty, ahead of President Clinton's State of the Union Message, kept buyers at bay, with few venturing to make any large purchases. 
 The 30-year bond fell 21/32, to a price of 110 24/32 to yield 6.09 percent, up from 6.04 percent on Monday. On the shortest maturities, yields were unchanged.
There was scant reaction to the personal income and spending data announced yesterday because the market considered most of the statistics outdated. Bond prices, however, dipped on the release in the morning of the Mitsubishi Bank/Schroder Wertheim chain store sales index for the week ended Jan. 20. The index rose 1.9 percent from the weak earlier and 5.6 percent from a year earlier.
Economists said that the rebound in sales was not all that surprising given that storms in the East had hurt sales in earlier weeks.
In the afternoon, Johnson Redbook said total sales rose 4.8 percent last week compared with the week a year earlier. It said month-to-date sales declined two-tenths of a percent for the first three weeks in January, which represented an improvement from a drop of nine-tenths of a percent reported a week earlier for three weeks.
Gold rallied on the market's concern about the debt limit and that may be why it has been able to stay above $400 an ounce, analysts said.
The Senate majority leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, commented in the afternoon that a balanced budget agreement was now unlikely, and that remark knocked the price of a 30-year bond down nearly a half of a percentage point.
Other data issued in the morning included November personal spending, which rose nine-tenths of a percent, its largest gain since February 1994, when spending was up 1.5 percent. Market participants were looking for spending to rise six-tenths of a percent. October spending was down three-tenths of a percent.
Personal income for November was up only two-tenths of a percent, while many economists had been expecting a gain of seven-tenths of a percent.
But it was the background talk of Government default that caused most of the uneasiness.
Ray Worseck, chief economist and manager at A. G. Edwards & Sons, St. Louis, said the market was focused on Washington developments. "Recent developments," he said, "seem to suggest that the debt market is more concerned about the crisis and fiscal questions as opposed to the economic news."
"The economy on the other hand is not rolling over and playing dead," Mr. Worseck added, "and so that tends to support the hesitancy in the Treasury market to go higher."
Thomas E. Donne, vice president and a senior portfolio manager at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation of Columbus, Ohio, also said that the news out of Washington was not good for bonds.
"People are worried about setting deadlines that everyone knows will be missed," Mr. Donne said. "But the market, which usually spends its time discounting economic data, now has to digest political speak, and as a result, it is nervous. And when investors are nervous they demand a concession in price."
Mr. Worseck and Mr. Donne said yesterday's Treasury auction of new two-year notes went well and might have been aided by rumors that large hedge funds were in the market to buy two-year securities.
At the Treasury's sale of $18.25 billion in new two-year notes, the high yield was 5.068 percent, down from 5.289 percent last month.
Today the Treasury will sell $12 billion of five-year notes. In when-issued trading late yesterday, the fives were offered at a price to yield 5.37 percent.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 5.068%
Low Yield . . . 5.010%
Median Yield . . . 5.050%
Accepted at low price . . . 99%
Total applied for . . . $44,814,449
Accepted . . . $18,251,210
Noncompetitive . . . $1,642,000
Interest set at . . . 5.00%
 
The two-year notes mature on Jan. 31, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI LTD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); BONDS (91%); RETAIL SALES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); RETAILERS (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (84%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



620 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: U. of California Postpones Shift In Policy on Affirmative Action

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 23

 BODY:
In what proponents of affirmative action hailed as a sign that the University of California may reconsider its ban on the use of race and sex to select students, university officials said today that they would delay starting the new policy by one year.
The officials said that the delay did not signal a retreat from the decision last July to abandon affirmative action. They said there was not enough time to implement new admission guidelines by next year. The postponement means the new policy will apply to freshmen entering in 1998, rather than those entering in 1997. 
 "This is a big change," said Dennis Galligani, assistant vice-president of the university, "and this gives us more time to work with the campuses and explain it to people. But nothing has changed. Materials developed after Jan. 1, 1997, will have no reference to race and gender."
A letter from the university president, Richard C. Atkinson, announcing the delay was sent to the chancellors of the system's nine campuses on Friday, the day after a raucous meeting in which the Regents affirmed their decision to abandon race- and sex-based hiring and admissions. The new standards for hiring took effect in January.
Last July, the Regents banned the use of race, religion, ethnicity, sex and national origin as criteria in hiring faculty, awarding contracts and selecting students.
Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican who was behind the drive to abolish affirmative action, made a rare appearance at the meeting and urged the Regents not to back down.
Opponents of the new policy said they believed that the widely organized faculty opposition and several critical newspaper editorials published this week had persuaded the administration to slow down. Roy T. Brophy, a regent from the Sacramento area who voted against the ban, said he would ask the board in the next few months to modify the policy approved in July.
"It gives us a window of opportunity to study and restudy what is fair," Mr. Brophy said.
One faculty member, Lawrence Wallack, a professor of public health at Berkeley, said today that he viewed the delay as a concession that the new policies had been hastily adopted.
"The old policy was dumped without any concept of what it would take to generate a new policy that would assure diversity," Professor Wallack said. "It may be that when enough research is done, they find there is an internal contradiction in the new policy: maintaining diversity is not possible without some consideration of race."
The new admission guidelines, which say that diversity should be pursued by using "social and economic disadvantage" instead of race and sex, must still be approved by the Regents and by each of the system's nine campuses before new applications can be printed.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; BLACKS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; WOMEN; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); DISCRIMINATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (95%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); RACE & RACISM (79%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); ETHNICITY (70%); RELIGION (70%); CONTRACT AWARDS (67%); 

PERSON: PETE BARTON WILSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



621 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Creditors Give Fokker a Month To Plot Survival

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Seeking time to avert collapse, Fokker N.V., the Dutch aircraft maker, said tonight that its main subsidiaries had been granted one month's protection from creditors after the cutoff of financial support from Daimler-Benz A. G., its German benefactor.
The decision appeared to be little more than a stopgap measure, with the announcement on Monday by Daimler-Benz, which holds a controlling stake in Fokker, that it was effectively abandoning Fokker after several years of heavy losses. 
 Analysts said that Fokker's only realistic strategy now was to find buyers for its aircraft-building and other aerospace activities, and that its ability to attract a buyer would probably hinge on how much financial support the Dutch Government was willing to provide, .
Ben van Schaik, Fokker's chairman, said at a news conference in Amsterdam tonight: "If we can find a partner for the companies for which we filed for protection, these companies can be saved. Alone, these companies cannot compete on the world market."
Aerospace companies like Bombardier of Canada, which makes wings for Fokker planes, and British Aerospace, one of Fokker's main rivals in the hotly competitive regional jet market, are likely to take a look at purchasing pieces of Fokker's business, analysts said.
But they also said it was by no means certain that Fokker would attract bids. And it remained unclear how much financial assistance might be forthcoming from the Dutch Government, which rejected Daimler-Benz's demands for high levels of financial aid during restructuring negotiations in recent months.
"The question before us is what is the best way to give Fokker the chance of keeping as much of the company as possible on its feet," Hans Wijers, the Dutch economics minister, said in a television interview.
Daimler-Benz's Deutsche Aerospace unit acquired its stake in Fokker in 1993 as part of a strategy of expanding its European aircraft- building capability into the regional jet market -- planes with 50 to 100 seats flown by airlines on short-haul routes.
But with aircraft sales depressed in recent years by a slump in the airline industry, Fokker, one of the oldest European plane makers, proved to be a substantial drain on Daimler's earnings. In the first half of last year, Fokker lost $400 million.
Analysts said that with British Aerospace, Alenia of Italy and Aerospatiale of France all competing in substantially the same market, a crisis for Fokker was virtually inevitable. Regional jet makers also compete with the smaller aircraft of McDonnell Douglas and the Boeing Company of the United States.
Fokker officials said they wanted to complete planes now under construction, and to win advance financing from the Dutch Government for orders it had placed. Fokker officials said they were working with Daimler-Benz to insure that the company could continue providing technical support to airlines using its planes.
"In the coming four weeks we will try to finish work in progress," Mr. van Schaik said. "We will take all measures to keep as much of the company operating as possible."
Shares of Fokker, which lost more than 40 percent of their value last week, once again did not trade today in the Netherlands. Daimler-Benz stock posted a modest gain in Frankfurt, after also failing to trade on Monday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (94%); DAI (BIT) (94%); BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); BBD.A (TSX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); 

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: FOKKER NV; DAIMLER-BENZ AG DAIMLER AG (94%); FOKKER NV (91%); FOKKER NV KONINKLIJKE NEDERLANDSE VLIEGTUIGENFABRIEK FOKKER (91%); BOEING CO (84%); BOMBARDIER INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOKKER NV; DAIMLER-BENZ AG

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS; NETHERLANDS (91%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; GOVERNMENTAL AID (NON-US); CREDIT; FINANCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINES (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W HANS WIJERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



622 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Incomes Rose Only Slightly In November

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Personal incomes edged up just two-tenths of 1 percent in November, the Commerce Department said today, providing another sign that the economy was slowing.
The report also said consumer spending jumped a surprising nine-tenths of 1 percent in November, its biggest monthly gain since early 1994. But some economists discounted that gain, saying the scant rise in personal incomes, and reports of poor holiday retail sales, suggested consumer spending had weakened since then. 
 Several economists said the sluggish growth in income could increase the likelihood that the Federal Reserve would make another cut in short-term interest rates at a policy meeting next Tuesday and Wednesday whether or not Congress and the Clinton Administration can resolve the budget impasse.
Some estimated that the economy's overall growth rate slid to 2 percent in the last quarter of 1995 from 3.2 percent in the third quarter. They also said the slowdown and disruptions from winter storms might cut economic growth to 1 to 2 percent in the first quarter of 1996.
Joel L. Naroff, chief economist at the First Union National Bank in Philadelphia, said the data in the Commerce report, which was delayed by partial Government shutdowns stemming from the budget fight, were weak enough to imply "a sharp deceleration" in economic growth.
He said the consumer income and spending figures suggested that the Federal Reserve "may have remained too tight for too long" in setting key interest rates, and it "will probably initiate another round of easing" next week.
Mr. Naroff said he expected the Fed's policy committee to cut the rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans by one quarter of a percentage point, to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent. That would be similar to changes that it made last December and last July after raising the rate seven times between February 1994 and February 1995.
Cheryl R. Katz, a senior economist at Merrill Lynch & Company, said she also expected the Fed committee to cut that rate by a quarter of a percentage point. She said she believed the Fed might also whittle the rate it charges on its own short-term loans to banks to 5 percent from 5.25 percent.
Noting that the Labor Department released figures last week showing that only half as many new payroll jobs were created in 1995 as in 1994, Ms. Katz said that meant "we will have weak income growth and sluggish consumer spending."
Other economists said top Fed officials might want to wait to see other statistics, including inflation-rate numbers scheduled to be released on Feb. 1, before making any change in interest rates.
But Ms. Katz said it was clear from the latest Commerce Department figures that "things are slowing down, and if they do wait, they'll eventually make another cut" in interest rates.
Indeed, the Commerce Department report said that the increase in personal income of two-tenths of 1 percent in November marked the smallest rise in that measure in three months. The report said personal income, which includes wages and salaries and income from dividends and interest, had increased by seven-tenths of 1 percent in October.
And while consumer spending jumped nine-tenths of 1 percent in November, the report also showed that it declined by three-tenths of 1 percent in October.
Several economists said the increase in November occurred in large part because consumers were making up for unusually weak spending in October.
Mr. Naroff estimated that in real dollars, consumer spending, which represents nearly two-thirds of the nation's economic activity, rose only about 1 percent during the fourth quarter despite the jump in November.
"So when you smooth it out" over October and November, "that was not a lot of demand," he said, "and that was before the disappointing Christmas season." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (84%); MER (NYSE) (84%); 8675 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK OF CONNECTICUT (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); RETAIL SALES (71%); JOB CREATION (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: DREW, CHRISTOPHER; DREW, CHRISTOPHER; KATZ, CHERYL R HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



623 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Steep Drop in Rate of Student Loan Default

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23

 BODY:
The percentage of borrowers defaulting on their Federal student loans has sharply dropped and the Government recouped $2 billion in the last fiscal year from those in default, Education Secretary Richard Riley said.
"These numbers reflect real and substantial progress," Mr. Riley said on Monday. "They are the product of several aggressive management decisions that were intended to get the default problem under control." 
 The rate of borrowers defaulting on student loans dropped to 11.6 percent in the 1993 fiscal year, the latest year for which figures are available. That was the lowest rate since official reporting on the default rate began in 1988. The rate has steadily declined since 1990, when it peaked at 22.4 percent.
"The program was hemorrhaging" Mr. Riley said.
Monday's news conference was intended to counter Congressional criticism by showing that the Education Department was improving its management of student loans. Republicans have sought to limit the direct-student-loan program, under which the Education Department bypasses bankers and lends directly to about 2.5 million students at 1,350 colleges and universities. The program has no limit on enrollment; Congressional Republicans would have it constitute no more than 10 percent of all student loans. Other Republicans want to close the department to save money.
Education Department officials have acknowledged that an improving economy helped reduce the default rate and that the Bush Administration deserved some credit. Mr. Riley, who was appointed by President Clinton in 1993, said he had made cutting the default rate his first goal.
Increased collections, combined with the lower default rate, reduced the net cost of defaults to $400 million in the 1995 fiscal year, down from $1.7 billion in the 1992 fiscal year. "Our collections on past defaulted loans are recouping more taxpayer dollars than ever before," Mr. Riley said.
The department reported that it collected $2 billion in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 by suing borrowers in default, tapping their Federal income tax refunds and garnisheeing their wages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CREDIT; TUITION STUDENT LOANS (95%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); 

PERSON: RILEY, RICHARD (SEC) BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



624 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: After Rising Faster Than Inflation for Years, Tuition Begins to Drop at Many Colleges

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
Despite the conventional wisdom that the costs of higher education will keep rising, a once-unthinkable phrase, tuition cuts, has been heard more frequently at America's colleges and universities.
Most of the schools that have announced price cuts have been small, regional colleges and universities looking for an advantage in increasingly competitive markets. But Princeton this week announced its smallest tuition increase in 28 years and such respected institutions as the University of Rochester and Lehigh University have offered tuition reductions or other innovations in the past two years. 
 Few experts on higher education are predicting a dramatic drop in college costs, certainly not at the nation's elite college and universities. But they say that what is happening now is the beginning of a process that could keep college costs down after they have risen at more than twice the rate of inflation for a long time.
What has helped push tuition costs down, they say, has been the increasing competitiveness among schools, a more cost-conscious national attitude and the widespread frustration with the standard practice of discounting prices through scholarships and other forms of aid, while keeping tuition high. Although the average tuition last year for a four-year private college was $18,000, the average student paid about half of that because of various forms of aid.
Some experts say the discounting is so widespread that any tuition cuts are only making official what is already a part of the college pricing structure.
"The price of higher education will be lower two years from now than it is now, and it's lower now than it was two years ago," said Robert Zemsky, director of the Institute for Research in Higher Education at the University of Pennsylvania. "This is going to happen in fits and starts for a while, but after a while if everyone is discounting their prices, no one gains an edge from it. The alternative is to lower the sticker price."
Most experts believe that the very top tier of colleges and universities, perhaps 30 or 35 schools, will remain largely exempt from traditional pricing pressures. Still, even the most elite schools are finding they must hold down price increases. Princeton this week announced the cost of tuition, room and board would increase next year by 4.6 percent to $28,325. It is the lowest rate of increase at Princeton since the 1967-68 school year.
On average, undergraduates will pay about 6 percent more this year on tuition and fees than they did a year ago, according to the annual report from the College Board. That is down substantially from recent years. Prices have risen as high as 12 percent in 1991-92 at public four-year institutions and 9 percent in 1988-89 and 1989-90 at at private institutions.
And in the last few months, a number of schools have announced they were cutting their tuition for next year.
Massachusetts public colleges cut tuition 5 to 10 percent last week. The policy applies to nine state colleges and 15 community colleges, but it is not clear if the University of Massachusetts system will also lower its prices.
Muskingum College in Ohio recently cut tuition by 29 percent. North Carolina Wesleyan College dropped prices by 23 percent. Pine Manor College in Massachusetts this month cut tuition by 38 percent. Other colleges announcing price cuts in the past year include schools like Waldorf College in Iowa, Westfield State College in Massachusetts and United States International University in San Diego.
Michigan State and Rice Universities are among those saying prices will not rise above the inflation rate, and others including the 22 campuses of the California State University system have frozen prices.
Many of these schools say it is fairer and easier to set a realistic sticker price than to bargain over discounts. "Why charge so much in the first place if you have to turn around and give it back in the form of institutionally funded financial aid?" said Bill Hamm, President of Waldorf College, a private institution offering a three-year bachelor's degree, where 95 percent of the students receive some form of financial aid.
Cutting tuition can be part of a smart marketing plan that need not bring in any less revenue.
The University of Rochester last year announced it would cut tuition by $5,000 for in-state students and the children of alumni. The main reason, officials said, was to better compete with less expensive state universities for relatively affluent students.
"We had a $15,000 price differential with the State University of New York and students were voting with their feet and going to SUNY," said Jim Scannell, vice president for enrollments, placement, alumni relations and development. "Families always realized the value here, but at $15,000 difference they voted no. At $10,000, we were much more competitive."
He said applications rose 21 percent from in-state students and 25 percent from the children of alumni, and the university was able to be more selective.
Average Scholastic Assessment Test scores rose 34 percent and the price cuts brought in a higher percentage of middle-class students able to pay the full cost.
As a result, the tuition reduction proved to be "slightly budget positive," bringing in $150,000 more in tuition revenue than in the previous year, Mr. Scannell said.
Many schools that have cut tuition say the move works in favor of middle-class families, who may have trouble getting financial aid but cannot pay ever-rising tuition.
"What's developed over time is a very complicated structure that no one really understands, least of all the parents and students," said Linda Stallone, vice president for development at North Carolina Wesleyan College in Rocky Mount, N.C. "What we've come up with is something that's more equitable, easier to understand, and clearer that will particularly help middle-class students who were reaching the point where tuition was getting so high even they couldn't pay it."
But some experts say this is the start of a process likely to bring real, long-term reductions in the cost of higher education.
In announcing its tuition cut, Muskingum College cited a Gallup Poll showing that by a 4-to-1 ratio, cost is the most important concern parents have about attending a private college.
Thomas D. Parker, a lecturer in education at Boston University, said education is beginning to go through the same process the rest of the economy did in greater price consciousness.
He said just as I.B.M. can no longer build a computer and add in what it wants in profits, universities will increasingly face competitition forcing them to become smarter, more cost efficient and cheaper.
He said the economic insecurity affecting society will increase the pressures on colleges and universities.
But he added that he and others have been predicting for years that the college price spiral has to end, and it has kept on longer than he ever thought it would.
"Having said all this, I have to also say I said the same thing 25 years ago," he said. "I have an old clipping from the Boston Globe from 1956 saying that by 1960, tuition at Harvard would cost $1,000 a year and it can't keep going up like this. There are reasons why I think it will happen now, but I have to admit that history has not proved kind to this sort of prediction in the past. You're like the stock market bears, who keep saying this time it's serious and always run the risk of looking pretty foolish." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH INC (53%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (57%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (57%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); TUITION FEES (92%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



625 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Invite In the Rich? PEN Is Pondering

BYLINE: By DINITIA SMITH 

 BODY:
A proposal that might add wealthy nonwriters to the board of the PEN American Center, a group devoted to defending the freedom of writers, has led to alarm among members that the well heeled are about to take charge and to cries of censorship in a stronghold of intellectual freedom.
"The members of our executive board find it hard to agree," said Anne Hollander, the organization's newly elected president. "They think there will be some huge number of people in black uniforms and cutaway coats ordering them around. Rich people are talked about with the most amazing venom by writers, especially nonrich writers. A lot of these writers have never met a rich person." 
 Meanwhile, said Ms. Hollander, PEN is in "transitional agony."
With 2,800 members in the United States and a budget of about $1.1 million a year, she said, PEN is in a financial crunch. Donations are down. Staff members who have left have not been replaced. One solution proposed by a committee last fall is to bring non writers, possibly wealthy ones, onto PEN's 95-member board in the hope that they will contribute and help to raise money. "We can't get our high-minded projects into being without an efficient means of raising money," Ms. Hollander said.
PEN members have been debating the proposal for months, sometimes rancorously, even though some nonwriters -- editors -- are already on the board and agents are members of the organization. Tonight the executive board is to meet again on the issue. If the board members can agree among themselves, the changes will be submitted to a vote by the organization's full membership before June 1.
Part of the problem, Ms. Hollander said, is the executive board's swollen size: 95 members, almost unheard of for any institution. The board members sit for life. Many, Ms. Hollander explained, are "famous writers whose names look good in letters to heads of state saying 'Kindly release X without further delay.' " Among these celebrities are Norman Mailer, Susan Sontag and E. L. Doctorow. The majority of members, especially the famous ones, do not attend meetings.
The new proposal would reduce the board to 24. One-third would be nonmembers of PEN, and all would be rotated.
"Writers want to get together and argue and wrangle," said Ms. Hollander, who supports the proposal. "Nothing seems to get done." Many members are resisting, she said, because they will miss "the fun of standing up and having a wonderful time screaming."
"But a board with no responsibility for the organization, this is what everybody notices in the great world."
The international PEN organization, founded in 1921 by John Galsworthy, is a loose federation of writers' groups, with 124 chapters in 91 countries and 14,000 members worldwide. Over the years, PEN has been a high-profile advocate of oppressed writers, among them Federico Garcia Lorca, Arthur Koestler, Boris Pasternak and, more recently, Salman Rushdie and Ken Saro-Wiwa, who was executed last fall by Nigeria's military Government. PEN organizes less visible activities, too, like literary prizes, writing programs in prisons and forums on writing that are open to the public.
Over the years there have been other attempts to reduce the size of PEN American Center's unwieldy board. All failed. The latest clash is reminiscent of one in 1990 in which Gayfryd Steinberg, the wife of the financier Saul Steinberg, drew criticism for serving as president of Friends of PEN, an affiliated support group. Ken Auletta, a board member, was quoted as calling the Steinbergs "wealthy people gaining respect on the backs of writers," and Ms. Steinberg resigned.
Of the current conflict, Mr. Auletta said recently: "The philosophical side of my brain is against it. The practical side says it's necessary."
Among the members who oppose the change, Ms. Hollander said, is Ms. Sontag, a former president. Ms. Sontag declined to be interviewed, but Ms. Hollander said, "She thinks of this as the end of PEN."
Another opponent is the author Kirkpatrick Sale. "There is a money crisis," he said, "but we have no way of knowing that bringing in richies on the board would solve the crisis."
Lucy Komisar, a foreign affairs writer and editor of the PEN newsletter, is also against the change. "I don't think we should sell PEN to the highest bidder," she said. Ms. Komisar contends that the organization withheld a letter by the Filipino writer Ninotchka Rosca from its newsletter because it criticized the proposed changes.
"I put it in the newsletter for February," Ms. Komisar said. "I was told by Anne Hollander it could not go in. This was censorship."
Ms. Hollander said the newsletter had been delayed to include a summary of the proposed changes and a letter supporting them by Frances FitzGerald, also a board member.
Typically, the battle is being waged in high-minded or intellectual language. "Electing people will create a certain transparency," said Ms. Fitzgerald. "The membership becomes responsible." And in a reference to possible wealthy new board members, she added, "This isn't Marla Trump."
In the minutes of a Dec. 13 board meeting, the group's secretary, Naomi Bliven, apologized to the membership for "a brief display of temper."
Ms. Bliven wrote that as secretary, she was unable to "say with any certainty what the board decided" about the proposals. "Part of the reason may be her fatigue," she added. "Part of the reason may be the furious cross talk."
Presiding over the fighting with what seems like amused tolerance, Ms. Hollander also casts the debate in writerly terms. "The imaginative construction of what we are doing is of utmost importance," she said.
Ms. Hollander, a 65-year-old art historian who has written about fashion, is not as well known as some of her predecessors in the top job.
But the poet Richard Howard, a lifelong friend, describes Ms. Hollander, who was elected president by the full membership last spring, as "shamefully literary."
"I have no advanced degrees, no qualifications," Ms. Hollander said. "I am an anachronism, a lady. I'm supported by my husband. I inherited money from my parents. I don't live on my writings."
She is married to Thomas Nagel, a professor of philosophy at New York University.
"There are writers who feel we have to live like Flaubert, who sat in a farmhouse for years and wrote these great books; he didn't bustle about raising money," Ms. Hollander said. "But that's impossible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anne Hollander, president of PEN. A plan to add wealthy nonwriters to its board has the group examining its conscience. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PEN AMERICAN CENTER XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEN AMERICAN CENTER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCE; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); WRITERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); CENSORSHIP (57%); 

PERSON: SMITH, DINITIA; HOLLANDER, ANNE ANNE HOLLANDER (94%); SUSAN SONTAG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



626 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
ON ALERT IN BOSNIA
American forces in Bosnia have heightened security after intelligence reports suggested that militant Muslim groups were planning terrorist attacks over sentencing of a Muslim cleric in New York. A1
 
TOKYO TRADE SURPLUS FALLS
Japan's giant overall trade surplus shrank in 1995 for the first time in five years, led by a substantial narrowing in its politically sensitive gap with the United States. A1
 
TURMOIL IN COLOMBIA
Colombia's politics have been thrown into turmoil by a former senior official's charges that President Ernesto Samper knowingly received contributions by drug traffickers to his 1994 campaign. A2
 
WORRIES OVER CHINA'S PLANS
The Chinese leadership has sent warnings of a limited attack on Taiwan, and some experts fear the issue has become a matter of national pride. A3
 
Taiwan is vying with China for influence in Africa. A3
 
SEOUL EX-PRESIDENT INDICTED
The former President of South Korea has been indicted for the killing of hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators in 1980, an episode that has haunted the country. A9
 
YELTSIN REMAKES HIMSELF
News analysis: President Boris N. Yelstin of Russia, who has said he plans to run for re-election, is recasting himself as a centrist. A6
 
A recommendation to break the impasse over Ulster talks. A5
 
Lincoln Journal: Cathedral schism causing high-church dudgeon. A4
 
National A10-17
 
CLINTON'S STATE OF THE UNION
President Clinton challenged the nation to provide enough educational opportunities, economic security and freedom from crime to allow Americans to make most of an "age of possibility." A1
 
THE REPUBLICAN RESPONSE
Senator Bob Dole sought to take the mantle of "change" from President Clinton, deriding him as an elitist and "almost the last public defender of a discredited status quo." A1
 
TAKING THE HIGH ROAD
News analysis: President Clinton sounded like a front-runner, giving the speech of a candidate confident that he is ahead, outlining an agenda for a second term and avoiding partisan sniping. A1
 
DELAYING ACTION ON THE DEBT
House and Senate Republicans agreed to delay action on the national debt limit, but failed to agree on details of a bill intended to keep the Government from another partial shutdown on Saturday. A15
 
A SOUTHERN SCOURGE
After the first year of a Federal spraying program to control the boll weevil, many irate farmers in Texas say that the scourge is not the weevil but the Government. A10
 
GRASS-ROOTS BROADCASTING
A group of electronics experts, music enthusiasts and people in politics have been using a cluttered workshop in Berkeley, Calif., to teach foreigners, and some Americans, how to build and operate pirate radio stations. A10
 
BUCHANAN VS. GRAMM
The Republican contest in Louisiana has become a one-on-one match between Patrick Buchanan and Senator Phil Gramm. A11
 
AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL IS AILING
The air traffic control system suffers long breakdowns not just because it is old, but because the Federal Aviation Administration is unprepared to maintain the system's computers, the National Transportation Safety Board said. A11
 
WHITEWATER PARTNERSHIP
The Senate Whitewater committee took up the relationship between the owner of an Arkansas savings and loan association and his business partners in the Whitewater land deal, Bill and Hillary Clinton. A11
 
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PRESERVED
The University of California said that it would delay for a year its rescinding of a policy that uses preferences based on race and sex in the selection of students. A16
 
Education Page B7 All manner of colleges are moving to keep tuition costs down.
 
Metro Section B1-5
 
PATAKI ON THE ENVIRONMENT
Gov. George E. Pataki's environmentalism appears to emanate from a man struggling to mesh a deeply felt concern for nature with a Republican agenda that includes cutting budgets and streamlining regulations. A1
 
GAINS AT NEWARK AIRPORT
Newark International Airport formally opens a sprawling, $120 million international arrivals hall today, a move that aviation experts say positions Newark to become the region's busiest airport. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-8
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Health Page C9
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Sports B8-14
 
Obituaries B5-6
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
State of the campaign.
 
Street fairs need reform.
 
A pointless conflict in Angola.
 
Letters
 
Thomas L. Friedman: The next Rwanda.
 
Frank Rich: Calling Ralph Bellamy.
 
Anton Shammas: The reality of Palestine.
 
Joel H. Silbey: Congress of quitters.
 
Chronicle B5
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN JOURNAL STAR (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); TERRORISM (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); SENTENCING (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); HOMICIDE (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (71%); DEBT CEILING (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (64%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (60%); MUSIC (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



627 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: As China Threatens Taiwan, It Makes Sure U.S. Listens

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 23

 BODY:
The Chinese leadership has sent unusually explicit warnings to the Clinton Administration that China has completed plans for a limited attack on Taiwan that could be mounted in the weeks after Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, wins the first democratic balloting for the presidency in March.
The purpose of this saber-rattling is apparently to prod the United States to rein in Taiwan and President Lee, whose push for greater recognition for the island of 21 million people, has been condemned here as a drive for independence. 
 While no one familiar with the threats thinks China is on the verge of risking a catastrophic war against Taiwan, some China experts fear that the Taiwan issue has become such a test of national pride for Chinese leaders that the danger of war should be taken seriously.
A senior American official said the Administration has "no independent confirmation or even credible evidence" that the Chinese are contemplating an attack, and spoke almost dismissively of the prospect. "They can fire missiles, but Taiwan has some teeth of its own," the official said. "And does China want to risk that and the international effects?"
The most pointed of the Chinese warnings was conveyed recently through a former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Chas. W. Freeman Jr., who traveled to China this winter for discussions with senior Chinese officials. On Jan. 4, after returning to Washington, Mr. Freeman informed President Clinton's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, that the People's Liberation Army had prepared plans for a missile attack against Taiwan consisting of one conventional missile strike a day for 30 days.
This warning followed similar statements relayed to Administration officials by John W. Lewis, a Stanford University political scientist who meets frequently with senior Chinese military figures here.
These warnings do not mean that an attack on Taiwan is certain or imminent. Instead, a number of China specialists say that China, through "credible preparations" for an attack, hopes to intimidate the Taiwanese and to influence American policy toward Taiwan. The goal, these experts say, is to force Taiwan to abandon the campaign initiated by President Lee, including his effort to have Taiwan seated at the United Nations, and to end high-profile visits by President Lee to the United States and to other countries.
If the threats fail to rein in Mr. Lee, however, a number of experts now express the view that China could resort to force, despite the enormous consequences for its economy and for stability in Asia.
Since last summer, when the White House allowed Mr. Lee to visit the United States, the Chinese leadership has escalated its attacks on the Taiwan leader, accusing him of seeking to "split the motherland" and undermine the "one China" policy that had been the bedrock of relations between Beijing and its estranged province since 1949.
A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, asked to comment on reports that the Chinese military has prepared plans for military action against Taiwan, said he was awaiting a response from his superiors. Last month, a senior ministry official said privately that China's obvious preparations for military action have been intended to head off an unwanted conflict.
"We have been trying to do all we can to avoid a scenario in which we are confronted in the end with no other option but a military one," the official said. He said that if China does not succeed in changing Taiwan's course, "then I am afraid there is going to be a war."
Mr. Freeman described the most recent warning during a meeting Mr. Lake had called with nongovernmental China specialists.
Participants said that Mr. Freeman's presentation was arresting as he described being told by a Chinese official of the advanced state of planning. Preparations for a missile attack on Taiwan, he said, have been completed and await a decision by the Politburo in Beijing.
One of the most dramatic moments came when Mr. Freeman quoted a Chinese official as asserting that China could act militarily against Taiwan without fear of intervention by the United States because American leaders "care more about Los Angeles than they do about Taiwan," a statement that Mr. Freeman characterized as an indirect threat by China to use nuclear weapons against the United States.
An account of the White House meeting was provided by some of the participants. Mr. Freeman, reached by telephone, confirmed the gist of his remarks, reiterating that he believes that while "Beijing clearly prefers negotiation to combat," there is a new sense of urgency in Beijing to end Taiwan's quest for "independent international status."
Mr. Freeman said that President Lee's behavior "in the weeks following his re-election will determine" whether China's Communist Party leaders feel they must act militarily to change his behavior.
In recent months, Mr. Freeman said he has relayed a number of warnings to United States Government officials. "I have quoted senior Chinese who told me" that China "would sacrifice 'millions of men' and 'entire cities' to assure the unity of China and who opined that the United States would not make comparable sacrifices."
He also asserted that "some in Beijing may be prepared to engage in nuclear blackmail against the U.S. to insure that Americans do no obstruct" efforts by the People's Liberation Army "to defend the principles of Chinese sovereignty over Taiwan and Chinese national unity."
Some specialists at the meeting wondered if Mr. Freeman's presentation was too alarmist and suggested that parliamentary elections on Taiwan in December had resulted in losses for the ruling Nationalist Party and that President Lee appeared to be moderating his behavior to avoid a crisis.
"I am not alarmist at this point," said one specialist, who would not comment on the substance of the White House meeting. "I don't think the evidence is developing in that direction."
Other participants in the meeting, who said they would not violate the confidentiality pledge of the private session, separately expressed their concern that a potential military crisis is building in the Taiwan Strait.
"I think there is evidence to suggest that the Chinese are creating at least the option to apply military pressure to Taiwan if they feel that Taiwan is effectively moving out of China's orbit politically," said Kenneth Lieberthal, a China scholar at the University of Michigan.
Mr. Lieberthal, who also has traveled to China in recent months, said Beijing has redeployed forces from other parts of the country to the coastal areas facing Taiwan and set up new command structures "for various kinds of military action against Taiwan."
"They have done all this in a fashion they know Taiwan can monitor," he said, "so as to become credible on the use of force."
"I believe there has been no decision to use military force," he continued, "and they recognize that it would be a policy failure for them to have to resort to force; but they have set up the option, they have communicated that in the most credible fashion and, I believe, the danger is that they would exercise it in certain circumstances."
Several experts cited their concern that actions by Congress in the aftermath of President Lee's expected election could be a critical factor contributing to a military confrontation. If President Lee perceives that he has a strong base of support in the United States Congress and presses forward with his campaign to raise Taiwan's status, the risk of a military crisis is greater, they said. A chief concern is that Congress would seek to invite the Taiwan leader back to the United States as a gesture of American support. A Chinese military leader warned in November that such a step could have "explosive" results.
In recent months, American statements on whether United States forces would defend Taiwan if it came under attack have been deliberately vague so as to deter Beijing through a posture of what the Pentagon calls "strategic ambiguity."
Some members of Congress assert that the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 includes an implicit pledge to defend Taiwan if attacked, but Administration officials say that a decision would depend on the timing, pretext and nature of Chinese aggression.

GRAPHIC: Map showing location of the Taiwan Strait.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION ; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); EVIDENCE (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E; LEE TENG-HUI (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



628 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Shuttling Through the Night: The Overnighters' Odyssey;
Homeless People Living Between Shelter Visits

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
It was another muttering, fatigue-fogged midnight in the sour-aired waiting room of the homeless shelter at Bellevue Hospital. Fifty men in dingy parkas slumped awkwardly on chairs, staring or snoring, the murmur broken every few minutes by the blare of a bus announcement.
"Flushing!" came the call, offering a bed in the city-run shelter in Flushing, Queens, and a way out of spending the night on a chair. "Let's go! Flushing!" 
 Some lined up, but many did not. Several men who lingered said it was easy to understand: the hot water at Flushing often ran out, sometimes the heating broke down, they would be lucky if they got to bed by 2 A.M., and then they would likely be roused at 6 for a ride back to Manhattan that often dropped them many blocks from Bellevue.
"It doesn't make sense," said Fred Mack, a 46-year-old bank messenger. "I don't get enough rest and I've got to get up and go to work."
So he stayed, as did many sleep-starved others, in a small but increasingly problematic pocket of the city's shelter system that has infuriated advocates for the homeless this winter and brought to light some of the knottier problems of getting people off the streets.
These men, some mentally ill, some drug-addicted, some simply down on their luck, are known as "overnighters" -- people who just want a bed for the night and otherwise, essentially, to be left alone -- no drug treatment, no job training, no long-term bed, just warmth through the winter night.
There appear to be several hundred overnighters out of a total of some 7,300 single adults in the New York City shelter system, city officials say. When they are not in the shelters they tend to bed down on the streets, subways or in shantytowns; some stay at relatives' or in cheap rooms until their money runs out each month.
By law, the city must provide them with shelter, and it does. But it has no obligation to make the process overly convenient, and the men, in turn, often complicate things for the city by arriving late at Bellevue, one of two intake points for homeless men, and turning down spots in the Flushing shelter or other far-off places.
"We offer people beds and transport them to those beds, but there are a significant number of people who refuse beds," said Joan Malin, the Homeless Services Commissioner. "The complaints are more from a group that's coming in very late at night and I'd argue, "Come in earlier, work with us."
Advocates for the homeless charge that the city, struggling with a shelter system filled to capacity and about to overflow, purposely makes the Bellevue and Flushing experiences so full of hassles that men will be discouraged from coming. The Flushing shelter, which opened last fall to handle the overflow from the rest of the system, is the only shelter to close down completely during the day, the advocates say, and none of the men can make a temporary base there.
"Some of these people are mentally ill, but they're not stupid, they know a raw deal when they see it," said Mary Brosnahan, the director of the Coalition for the Homeless. "Getting three hours of sleep and getting dumped on the West Side of Manhattan is a raw deal."
City officials vehemently deny the allegations, saying that, in fact, they work hard to bring people in off the streets with various outreach programs. But, said Susan Wiviott, spokeswoman for the Department of Homeless Services, the city wants homeless people to enter long-term programs that will solve root problems like drug abuse and get them housed for good. The overnighters, she said, are using the system wrongly.
"It's not a flophouse," she said was the message to homeless people. "We're providing you with this resource but we want you to use it to regain your independence."
The Coalition for the Homeless argues that many of the men at Bellevue want to enter the longer-term system, but cannot because it is overcrowded. So they shuttle back and forth between Bellevue and Flushing or overnighters' beds in other shelters, or just going back to the streets.
The dispute has reached the level of court battles; the coalition is seeking a ruling in State Supreme Court that by shuttling the men back and forth between Bellevue and Flushing, the city is violating its obligation to provide decent shelter to more than 200 homeless men.
Oblivious of the arguments over their treatment, the men in the Bellevue waiting room know only that every night involves a choice between chair-sleep and an odyssey.
On one recent night at nearly 1 A.M., several men in the packed waiting room said they had arrived in early evening and been waiting hours for a bus to a shelter. A few stretched out on the bare floor; others staked out chairs; one, Allah Rhaheem, was studying for a college math exam.
"I have a very important test tomorrow," he said unhappily, "and I can't study properly because it's noisy and it smells bad."
He had two more worksheets to finish and had no time to go through the Flushing shuttle, he said.
After one call for a bus to Flushing, Carlos Vivo, a 19-year-old man with his face barely visible inside an oversized sweatshirt hood, turned to Robert Jones, 22, an unemployed security guard.
"You going to Flushing, right?" Mr. Vivo asked.
Mr. Jones shook his head hard. "I can't mess with the cold showers, I'll get sick again," he said.
On another late night, Alan Williams, 32, decided he'd go to the Queens shelter, but "You got to go through a whole lot of headaches just to get on the bus," he said of the registration procedure and hours of waiting.
He made it to the last bus at 1 A.M.
"By the time I get there, it'll be time to get up," he said.
The Flushing building, a 180-bed armory that had served as a shelter until 1994 when it closed because the system did not need the beds, could serve as the definition of the bare minimum of shelter. It was clean and, on a recent visit, several repairmen were battling with dedication to fix the building's old boiler after 1 A.M., but its sleeping space looked like a giant school gym full of beds at three-feet intervals.
Mr. Williams figured he would get to bed about 2:30 A.M., after getting his paperwork in order, taking a shower, picking up his linen and making his bed. He expected to be awakened at 6 A.M. for the ride back to the city.
"My eyes weigh like 100 pounds," he said.
Mr. Mack, the bank messenger, stayed back at Bellevue, in part, he said, because he was free to leave there whenever he wanted to, unlike staying at the more "sequestered" shelters.
The Bellevue waiting room has very free access indeed. Those who come in the front door of the shelter must sign in, go through a metal detector and pass inspection by a guard with a metal-detecting wand. But despite the security measures at the front door, a side door leading to the buses on 30th Street was unguarded, and almost anyone could walk in or out.
The misery there was low-grade, but pervasive. The room was well-heated and lighted, but the close quarters, the noise despite a futile sign on the wall demanding silence, the occasional altercations -- all were enough to make Marcus Owens, a self-described manic depressive, yearn for warmer weather.
"If it wasn't so cold I'd much rather sleep in Central Park," he said. "It'd be much more pleasurable there."
"Just the cold made me come in," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a shelter in Queens one recent morning, homeless men tried to rest briefly before being moved by shuttle bus to another shelter, in Manhattan. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B1); At Bellevue Hospital, men wait for a bus to take them to a shelter in Queens -- a process of shuttling the homeless that critics call inhumane. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LET'S GO PUBLICATIONS INC (57%); BELLEVUE HOSPITAL (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELLEVUE HOSPITAL (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (92%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (64%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, CAREY

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



629 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Newark Airport Is Pressing to Surpass Kennedy

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Newark International Airport formally opens a sprawling, $120 million international arrivals hall on Wednesday, a move that aviation experts say positions Newark to become the region's busiest airport.
The light-filled addition to Terminal B is designed to double the airport's capacity to take in international passengers, to 3,000 passengers an hour when it is fully operating by year's end. 
 That, along with a $350 million monorail to open in May connecting the main Newark terminals, could siphon off passengers from Kennedy International Airport who have long been maddened by the lengthy arrival lines at immigration and the maze that constitutes terminal transfers.
"Kennedy is known in the business as the airport people love to hate," said David S. Stempler, a Washington-based airline passenger consultant. "If Newark can capitalize on the fact that connections will be easier, I think it will really have an advantage."
The growth of Newark relative to Kennedy has ramifications beyond air travel. Airports represent powerful economic engines for their cities and regions, and increasing passenger traffic means increased spending and jobs, both at the airport itself and in the surrounding area.
The shift toward Newark also seems to demonstrate that many travelers have finally shed the lingering impression that international travel means flying to or from Kennedy. Indeed, for travelers starting from midtown Manhattan, getting to Newark can be easier than getting to Kennedy.
While Newark 10 years ago briefly passed Kennedy in numbers of passengers, the 1986 statistics were considered an anomaly because of huge fare cuts for People Express, which later went out of business. Two years ago, Kennedy had a very slight edge, with 28.8 million passengers to 28.0 million for Newark. Figures for 1995 were still being compiled, but airport officials said Newark is one of the fastest growing airports in the nation.
And the new, more efficient international terminal sets the stage for even more growth, experts said.
"Over all, people will still be driven by price and convenience rather than which airport is a nice place to be," said Claude Shostal, president of Regional Plan Association, an independent agency that specializes in the three-state region of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. "But at the margins when all other things are equal, about 5 or 10 percent of passengers will opt for the nicer place."
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has long accused the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey of favoring the Garden State, announced today that he was commissioning a study on turning the Port Authority's operations over to private management, including the airports. City Hall is said to believe that the gains in passengers at Newark are not because the airport offers any particular advantage but because the Port Authority has let facilities at Kennedy and La Guardia airports get so shabby.
"They are going to have to stop spending money in New Jersey for about 10 years and get New York cleaned up," said John S. Dyson, Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, arguing that having three great airports would benefit the entire region economically.
Port Authority officials say that they agree and that they are ready to invest $2 billion in improving New York City's airports, but they add that the city itself is causing problems by dragging its feet in negotiations over new leases.
For example, the Port Authority said it was willing to spend in the neighborhood of $1 billion for a new arrivals hall at Kennedy -- projected for completion in 2003 but still in the design phase. The authority says it might not be able to move forward with the plans because of the dispute with the city over $400 million in lease payments.
Fifteen years ago, Kennedy had 98.5 percent of all international passengers at the three airports. Now, Newark has 17.5 percent, La Guardia acounts for 5.8 percent and Kennedy's share has fallen to 76.6 percent. The Port Authority, which keeps these statistics, said this balance was likely to remain.
"I would say those percentages are not going to change significantly over the years," said Lewis M. Eisenberg, chairman of the Port Authority. "Newark may pick up some international and Kennedy some domestic flights."
But airline executives based at Newark are much more upbeat. Newark has consistently added new foreign destinations over the last decade and at least one foreign carrier, Scandinavian Airline Systems, uses it alone for flights to the New York area.
In addition to gaining passengers, Newark has reduced the flight delays that have long plagued its passengers. For several years, the Federal Aviation Administration has rated it the nation's worst airport for delays, but in the latest ranking, it dropped to seventh on that list, out of the 55 busiest airports.
Until now, international passengers arriving at Newark or Kennedy have been herded into equally dingy hallways, standing in seemingly endless, snaking lines that could easily stretch to 90 minutes during the most harried days of the peak summer travel season.
"This airport really is a bit drab," said Jason P. St. Hill, a British businessman arriving at Newark today, though he noted that he generally chooses Newark for his seven or eight trips to the United States each year because he gets out faster.
In the new building tacked onto the back of Terminal B, Newark's arriving passengers waiting to be processed or for their luggage will be able to stand in light-filled hallways the length of two football fields. The outer, back walls are mostly glass and offer panoramic views of flights taking off against the backdrop of the lower Manhattan skyline.
"It is the most beautiful inspection area I've ever seen," said Paul J. Erdheim, supervising the installations for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in the new building.
Before, eight gates fed into 32 immigration stations and four baggage carousels. With the new terminal, 15 gates will be served by at least 56 immigration booths and seven baggage carousels. The messages of where to stand and where to pick up luggage will be flashed on overhead electronic screens.
Today, workers were finishing the lighting and spreading the carpeting.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers spackled walls near an escalator in Newark's new international arrivals hall before today's opening. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B5); A new arrivals hall could double Newark's capacity for foreign travelers. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 
Graphs: "Airport passenger Traffic" shows international and domestic travel for the three Metro-area airports. (Source: Port Authority)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (62%); PORT AUTHORITY (85%); NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY (85%); NEW YORK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); NEWARK INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NJ); MONORAILS; AIRPORTS AIRPORTS (97%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); AIR FARES (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); CITIES (72%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); 

PERSON: MACFARQUHAR, NEIL RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



630 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2127 words

HEADLINE: On the Environment, Pataki Is Seen in All Shades of Green

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Last Wednesday morning, Gov. George E. Pataki was warmly praised by environmental groups for resolving a bitter dispute over logging in the Adirondack Park. "The Governor has found the middle ground between protecting the critical resources of the park and the legitimate needs of landowners," Sarah Meyland, president of a private environmental group, said.
But by that afternoon, his administration was being pilloried by some of the same people for a program allowing companies found guilty of polluting to make tax-deductible contributions to environmental projects in lieu of paying hefty fines. Critics described the plan as "green pork." 
 The day, like many lately, reflected the complicated mix of Mr. Pataki's environmental record, a record that can prompt defenders to become detractors and vice versa in the space of a few hours.
The course of Mr. Pataki's environmentalism appears to emanate from a man struggling to mesh deeply felt concern for the environment with a Republican agenda that includes cutting budgets and streamlining regulations to make New York friendlier to business. A similar tension is seen in his administration.
Recent staff changes, damaging leaks aimed at the Environmental Conservation Commissioner, Michael D. Zagata, and sudden changes of course on environmental issues appear to stem from a battle between a core of people close to the Governor who support strong environmental protection and a powerful anti-regulatory camp, influenced by conservatives like Mr. Pataki's patron, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato.
In an interview last week, the Governor described the tremors on environmental issues as the growing pains of a government involved in a gutsy experiment to do more with less -- to trim a bureaucracy that he sees as more concerned with paperwork than cleanups, while attacking environmental problems untouched in years.
Most of the criticism, Mr. Pataki said, is coming from Democrats queasy about a Republican governor forging environmental breakthroughs in areas the Cuomo administration did not take on.
"In the past, they've always been able to take it for granted that Republicans were on the side of developers and Democrats were on the side of the environment," he said. "And all of a sudden they have a Republican who's on the side of the environment without being against intelligent economic growth. Their political turf is being invaded by someone who's doing a better job than they did when they had a monopoly."
Political foes say this is all a smoke screen and, sensing weakness, have jumped on the environmental issue. Last week, the Democratic-controlled Assembly challenged Mr. Pataki with a package of bills on pesticide monitoring and the right of citizens to sue polluters. And in joint legislative hearings in Albany today, environmental groups say they plan to pinpoint pollution and conservation programs imperiled under Mr. Pataki's new budget.
Many leaders of private environmental groups say they are exasperated that Mr. Pataki has not provided stronger environmental leadership.
Neil F. Woodworth, a lawyer for the Adirondack Mountain Club, said: "In the State Assembly, George Pataki had a very strong feeling for protecting the natural resources of the state, a very deep commitment. I can't believe the man has changed. I think the problem is he's not giving clear enough direction to his people."
The latest example was a request by a county within the Adirondack Park, a century-old patchwork of private and public land, to import garbage from outside the park to make its landfill profitable. The proposal had passed preliminary hurdles within two state agencies, and only when environmental groups loudly complained this month did the Governor say he opposed the idea.
Similarly, the logging dispute in the Adirondack Park was resolved only after conservationists complained about plans to permit widespread clear-cutting of timber damaged in a storm in July. Mr. Pataki stepped in, and the plan was scaled back and additional controls were imposed.
In the Adirondacks and on other issues, both business interests and private environmental groups have appealed to the Governor for a more consistent course on environmental questions.
 
Boyhood Days On Polluted River
In defense of his record, Mr. Pataki dared anyone to question his passion for the environment, which he said was born on the banks of the Hudson River when he was a boy. On hot summer days, he would walk the shoreline near his grandfather's house in Verplanck, a village 30 miles north of Manhattan.
"When I wasn't out at the farm in Peekskill," Mr. Pataki said, "I was down on the river. And you couldn't go in the water." Pollution from factories and open sewer lines had rendered the river untouchable.
"I'll never forget standing there throwing bricks into the river -- because it was an old brickyard," he said. "But as hot as it was, you couldn't go in."
After a pause, he added, "That should end."
Mr. Pataki cited as the hallmark of his environmental accomplishments the billion-dollar pact his office brokered last year to protect New York City's upstate watersheds. The agreement ended a generations-old dispute between New York City and the towns around its reservoirs, with the city agreeing to sponsor economic development programs while gaining new powers to curb pollution. The deal, he said, benefited from his ties both to rural upstate communities and to conservationists.
Mr. Pataki's environmental actions grew in lockstep with his political career. As Mayor of Peekskill in 1982, he was credited with working to protect open space along the river. As a state legislator, he worked to clean up a riverside landfill at Croton Point, link green space in communities up and down the Hudson and preserve habitats for wildlife.
But at the same time, Mr. Pataki was growing increasingly frustrated with the state's environmental bureaucracy and the enforcement strategy of the Department of Environmental Conservation.
When he was Mayor of Peekskill, he recalled, he learned of a broken pump in a sewer system that was sending raw sewage into the Hudson. "So we go back and fix the pump, and tell D.E.C." Mr. Pataki recalled. "They came down and said, 'Aha, you have a violation. We're fining you.'
"If we had done nothing, they would have never known," Mr. Pataki said. "But because we finally ended what had been a problem for years, we ended up getting fined. That was just typical of the attitude. It was process-oriented instead of results-oriented. We want results."
 
Regulating, Not Condemning
He said he is determined to move away from the old confrontational approach to one in which the department works with industry to identify pollution problems before they become severe. "We want to vigorously enforce environmental laws, but we don't think that's inconsistent with having a cooperative attitude with those who are regulated," Mr. Pataki said.
But Mr. Pataki's critics say he has allowed the pro-business, or anti-regulatory, camp in his administration far too much latitude. The $1.5 million tax deductible settlement negotiated between the administration and General Electric over a pollution problem at an upstate silicone plant was far less than possible fines, which could have reached $20 million, according to some environmental law experts.
That is one of several issues dogging Mr. Pataki's environmental chief, Mr. Zagata, who has traveled to Hartford on state time to buy decorative shrubs for his home and used department vehicles on other out-of-state personal trips. But the Governor said he supported Mr. Zagata, praising his aggressive approach to changing the way the department works. "He'll continue to take a lot of heat," Mr. Pataki said.
Responding to criticism that the Pataki administration had weakened the department's ability to pursue polluters, Mr. Pataki said, "The number of lawyers went from 128 to 103. They don't need 103 lawyers in the D.E.C. to have a solid enforcement program." More cuts are planned, he said,
This year, he said, he intends to use the same negotiating methods used last year in the Catskills watersheds to find consensus in the Adirondacks and create a plan to clean up Long Island Sound.
 
Long on Ideas, Short On Money for Them
Among environmental advocacy groups, however, concern is rising that Mr. Pataki's pledges may not be matched by his budget. They say that hidden in Mr. Pataki's plan to pump $100 million into the state's Environmental Protection Fund -- created in 1994 to pay for land and environmental projects -- are plans by his budget office to siphon off more than $25 million for projects not related to the environment.
The $25 million would go to repair state facilities, like prisons, that are some of New York's biggest polluters. Money to fix faulty prison septic systems or other state infrastructure should not come at the expense of environmental projects, said Eric J. Siy, a lobbyist for Environmental Advocates, a 30,000-member New York conservation group.
But Mr. Pataki said he was committed to seeing New York State end its reign as its own worst polluter and begin "leading by example instead of leading in its level of pollution."
He also defended a plan by Bernadette Castro, his Commissioner of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation, that would for the first time allow commercial logging in a state park. For more than a decade, Mr. Pataki said, the state has sought a way to manage Allegany State Park, the swath of mature forest near Buffalo that at 67,000 acres is New York's largest state park. "This was a problem that was deferred over and over again," he said.
But groups pressing to keep the park wild say they cannot understand Mr. Pataki's stance. Logging would lead to destructive road construction and set a precedent implying that parks must somehow pay their way, Mr. Woodworth said.
Elsewhere, as well, mixed signals predominate, people representing a wide range of interests say. In his annual message to the Legislature this year, Mr. Pataki endorsed the recommendations of a 1994 commission on the Adirondacks, Mr. Woodworth said. But Mr. Pataki, in sharply cutting the budget and staff of the Adirondack Park Agency, is not providing the means to accomplish the goals, he said. "We said we need 10 more people, and he's subtracting 10 people," Mr. Woodworth said. "There's still a big gap between his words and his deeds."
Mr. Pataki insisted that the rewards of a clean environment were far more precious than any short-term considerations. Living along the Hudson in Garrison, he said, he appreciated those rewards every day. "We had an eagle the other day fly over my house," he said. "When I was a kid there weren't any. Now around Iona Island at this time of the year there are a bunch of them. It's just awe inspiring."
 
Open Spaces, Air and Water
Gov. George E. Pataki's record on issues relating to a clean environment:
 
New York City's Water
 Mr. Pataki's says his proudest environmental achievement is the accord struck last November between New York City and the dozens of communities ringing the city's 19 upstate reservoirs. Under the pact, the city will spend more than $1 billion to fix environmental problems and spur limited development. In return, the communities will agree to abide by stricter environmental standards.
 
Adirondack Park
Mr. Pataki has been credited with helping resolve a dispute between loggers and environmentalists over what to do about millions of trees damaged or toppled on private land by a powerful windstorm last summer. But Mr. Pataki was criticized by conservationists for not speaking out, until environmental groups pressed him, against opening a county landfill inside the park to receive garbage from a city outside the park.
 
The Hudson River
For more than a decade, Mr. Pataki was a leading architect of a plan to create a chain of parks and public land along the Hudson, called the Hudson River Valley Greenway. In December, his budget office eliminated money for a community council administering the open-space plan. In January, Mr. Pataki restored, and slightly increased, financing for the group.
 
Open Space
Last year Mr. Pataki signed a pact creating a 100,000-acre preserve in Long Island's Pine Barrens -- the third such preserve in New York, after the Adirondack and Catskill Parks.
 
Air Quality
While environmentalists have praised Mr. Pataki for standing firm on New York's plans to require automobile manufacturers to sell electric vehicles in the state by the end of the century, they have criticized him for sharp cuts in budgets for mass transit and cleaner-burning buses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a grant announcement, Gov. Pataki doubled as a hawk perch. (Vic Delucia/The New York Times)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; ; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ; LAW AND LEGISLATION ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); CONSERVATISM (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); LEGISLATION (62%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); ALFONSE M D'AMATO (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



631 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan Trade Surplus Shrinks For the First Time in 5 Years

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Japan's giant overall trade surplus shrank in 1995 for the first time in five years, led by a substantial narrowing in the politically sensitive gap with the United States.
Many analysts say the decline is likely to continue, and help ease tensions with the nation's trading partners and help keep the dollar strong. 
 The Government reported today that Japan's merchandise trade surplus, the difference between exports and imports, fell 11.4 percent in 1995 to $107.1 billion, from $120.9 billion in 1994, the Ministry of Finance reported early today.
Behind the decline was the rise of the Japanese yen in recent years, which encouraged imports of everything from American personal computers to Australian beef, while crimping Japan's exports of such products as cars and videocassette recorders.
The surplus with the United States fell 17 percent, to $45.6 billion, from $54.9 billion in 1994, also its first decline in five years. But in recent months the decline has been far sharper, and the December data out today showed a 35 percent drop. In the next year or two, China is projected to replace Japan as the nation with which the United States has the largest trade deficit.
Already, there is some easing of tensions between Tokyo and Washington. The Clinton Administration, which has spent much of its time in office calling Japan an unfair trader, is now publicizing how fast exports of American products to Japan have been growing.
The figures released today are calculated on what is known as a customs clearance basis, which means that freight and insurance charges are included in imports. This tends to understate Japan's overall trade surplus by about $20 billion, compared with the more commonly used balance-of-payments calculation. Nevertheless, the trend is the same by any measurement.
"It's pretty clear there's a downward trend in motion," said Edward Lincoln, economic adviser to Walter F. Mondale, the United States Ambassador to Japan.
Japan projects that its current-account surplus, a broader measure of trade in goods and services and capital flows, will drop to 2 percent of its gross domestic product in the coming fiscal year, from more than 3 percent a few years ago. The 2 percent level is one that Washington had urged Japan to set as a goal a few years ago.
Imports surged 22.3 percent in 1995, despite Japan's economic slump, indicating that markets here have been opening up at least a little to foreign manufacturers who have long complained of being locked out. The surge in imports far outpaced a 12 percent rise in exports.
Imports of automobiles, while still small, rose 28.8 percent, to 388,162 vehicles, according to the Japan Automobile Importers Association, which said imports now account for about 10 percent of the market for full-sized passenger cars. Foreign manufacturers accounted for 26.2 percent of Japan's semiconductor market in the third quarter of 1995, well exceeding the 20 percent goal set by the 1991 trade agreement between Washington and Tokyo.
When measured in yen, Japan's trade imbalance has been falling since 1993. But because the yen has been becoming worth more dollars, the surplus reported in dollars continued to grow until last year.
While currency rates have affected the surplus, the surplus also has an impact on exchange rates. As the surplus falls, it will tend to make the yen weaker and the dollar stronger. Indeed, part of the reason the dollar has risen lately to about 105 yen from as low as 80 yen last year is that currency traders have been anticipating a lower trade surplus.
Still, Japan's overall surplus is twice what it was in 1990 and has generally grown for the last 25 years despite a steady appreciation in the yen. With the yen having weakened in recent weeks, to 105 to the dollar, there is concern that Japan's trade surplus could start rising again. Indeed, the December figure for the overall surplus showed a drop of 16 percent, a slackening in the pace of decline.
"We're not going to get as much trade adjustment at 100 or 105 as we had at 80," said Robert Alan Feldman, director of economic research for Salomon Brothers in Tokyo. He predicted that Japan's trade surplus would continue to decline for another six months or so, then start rising.
But others say the decline will continue, albeit at a gradual pace. Japan's economy is showing signs of a recovery from a four-year slump, which should bolster imports. At the same time, the economies of the United States and some European nations are slowing, meaning they are likely to buy fewer products exported from Japan.
In addition, some foreign manufacturers have opened new channels into the Japanese market that will not automatically close just because of fluctuations in currency rates. And some executives say the pressure for Japanese companies to move factories out of Japan will continue.
"Even at 130 yen to the dollar, overseas manufacturing is going to pay" for Japanese companies, said Yasuaki Takano, president of the Sanyo Electric Company. "It just doesn't make sense not to take advantage of wages that are one-twentieth to one-thirtieth of Japan's, such as in Indonesia."
Regarding trade with the United States, Japan's imbalance has been dropping since June, in some months by more than 40 percent compared with the corresponding months of 1994. A big factor has been a decline in auto exports, as new-car sales weakened in the American market and as Japanese manufacturers shifted more of their output to their American factories.
To be sure, the trade imbalance by itself is not the cause of trade friction. Companies can complain about unfair barriers even if overall trade between two nations is in perfect balance. But the overall deficit is a convenient symbol that grabs attention.
"Because of the deficit having come down, I think the relationship has already been improved," said Shoichiro Toyoda, the chairman of the Toyota Motor Corporation and of Keidanren, Japan's most powerful business lobbying organization.
Trade tensions are now in a lull, partly because Washington does not want to alienate Tokyo at a time when Japan is growing more edgy about the American military bases on its soil. But part of the lull stems from the fact that exports to Japan have started to grow rapidly.
With President Clinton facing an election in November, his Administration has been pointing to these rising exports as proof that the President's "results oriented" trade policies have been working.
A report issued in November by the Council of Economic Advisers and the Treasury Department stated that exports to Japan in those categories of goods in which the Clinton Administration had reached trade agreements had risen 80 percent since Mr. Clinton took office. For instance, exports of American medical equipment have grown more than 50 percent, copper more than 150 percent and chemicals more than 80 percent since trade agreements covering those products were signed.
Still, executives of American companies in Japan say there has been no noticeable gain in sales in such other areas as government purchases of telecommunications equipment or the construction market, despite trade agreements having been reached. The failure of such agreements -- plus looming disputes on access to Japan's photographic film market and the renewal of the semiconductor trade agreement -- could serve to reignite tensions later this year.
There are some other reasons that a shrinking trade surplus alone might not eradicate trade friction. One is that foreign companies might not be benefiting from Japan's increase in imports as much as the overall import figures would suggest. That is because a significant number of products entering Japan are products made by Japanese companies in their factories abroad.
For example, the biggest importer of cars to Japan last year was the Honda Motor Company. And the majority of imported VCR's, color televisions and compact disk players come from Japanese-owned factories in Southeast Asia.
Moreover, some of the American trade deficit with Japan has simply been shifted to deficits with other countries. Instead of exporting VCR's and stereos from Japan to the United States, Japanese companies are exporting them from their factories in Southeast Asia.
Japan is also supplying those Asian factories with components and machinery, so that Japan's trade surplus with Asia continues to rise even as it falls with the United States. So the Asian countries might be a new source of trade friction for Japan.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Smaller Surplus" shows Japan's trade balance, based on exports and imports that have cleared customs from 1986 to 1995. (Source: Japan's Ministry of Finance)(pg. D18)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); STATISTICS (76%); BEEF (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); MEATS (71%); JAPANESE YEN (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (55%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



632 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: THE ASSESSMENT;
Talking Like a Front-Runner

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23

 BODY:
President Clinton gave a front-runner's speech tonight, the speech of a candidate confident that he is ahead.
In a State of the Union Message that proposed an agenda not only for this year but also for the second term that Mr. Clinton hopes to win in November, he dwelt only briefly on the protracted struggle over the budget. He sounded almost as if the fight was over, telling Congress and the nation that only one more push was needed to "make permanent deficits yesterday's legacy." 
 Then he hurried on to the future, setting out a series of challenges that he said the nation faced in what he termed this "Age of Possibility."
The possibilities, the President said again and again, using various metaphors and examples, could only be realized by cooperation between Republicans and Democrats, between Federal and state and local governments, between government and the private sector. He set himself against "division, discrimination and rancor" and argued that "self-reliance and teamwork are not opposing virtues."
Remarkably restrained, relatively nonideological, almost bipartisan in tone, Mr. Clinton's words sounded an appeal to the political center.
The President has spent the last year facing an increasingly hostile Congress. Twice it has closed down much of the Government as part of the tug-of-war with Mr. Clinton. It has taken aim at many of his favorite programs. It has sought, sometimes successfully, to put him on the defensive. At one point last year, he found it necessary to proclaim his own relevance.
But unlike many of his predecessors who found themselves in similar situations, notably Harry Truman, he chose not to lambaste the Republicans tonight. Instead, he took the political high road, referring only obliquely and relatively gently to his differences with the House and Senate, as when he said the nation could not "go back to the era of fending for yourself."
The President left it to his chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, to put that point in robust language. The Republicans, Mr. Panetta suggested at a pre-speech briefing, wanted to take the country back to the law of the jungle, "the survival of the fittest."
Polling and focus groups have convinced the White House over the last few months that Mr. Clinton scores best with the public when he plays the role of the understated unifier.
Like all Presidents, Mr. Clinton is keen to appear "Presidential," meaning dignified, above the fray, Olympian. His praise for the World War II record of Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, who may be his Republican rival this fall, fit that approach, which he will no doubt maintain as long as he can. Should he fall behind, of course, he will come down from the mountain and talk tough.
But on this occasion, he praised the Republicans for "the energy and determination they have brought" to the task of balancing the budget. Though he criticized the Republicans for closing the Government, he said they had produced good ideas during their first months in power on Capitol Hill.
And this Democratic President acknowledged not once but twice the central tenet of the Republican "revolution" led by Newt Gingrich, the combative Speaker of the House. He said baldly, "the era of big government is over" -- an era that was initiated by a Democrat, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and extended for six decades by other Democrats in the White House and on Capitol Hill.
When he spoke on Capitol Hill a year ago, Mr. Clinton looked to many like a one-term President. He looks a lot stronger now. The Republicans' standing in the polls has drooped and his has risen. Senator Dole, the majority leader, has run a tepid campaign, and his Republican rivals have done even worse. Mr. Dole, assuming the role of the underdog, made a much tougher, much more partisan speech in giving the Republicans' official response tonight.
Only the Whitewater affair, in which Hillary Rodham Clinton was subpoenaed last week, deeply shadows her husband's electoral prospects. In keeping with custom, she sat in the first row of the balcony, and he praised her.
The economy, almost always the surest index to a President's re-election chances, is healthy, with the lowest combined rate of unemployment and inflation in 27 years -- though, as Mr. Clinton himself said, "too many Americans are working harder to get ahead in search of greater security."
So the President had every right to feel more confident tonight.
And yet he proposed few bold new initiatives, repeating his calls of a year ago for more urgent assaults on crime and a restoration of family values. He is constrained not only by budgetary considerations but also the need to set himself apart from the Republicans as well as from big-government Democrats. That gives him a relatively narrow ideological patch to plow, even though his public standing is strong.
Thus he voiced his agreement with Congress on the need for welfare reform to create a system that supports rather than undermines "the values of family and work." But he put a Democratic twist on the subject by insisting upon adequate child support "so that mothers can go to work without worrying."
On other subjects as well, Mr. Clinton sought to picture himself as a reasonable man who shared many of the Republicans' goals but thought their means too harsh. He made no accusations, but he championed the Medicare and Medicaid programs, while conceding that they had become too costly.
"We can save more," he said in a typically balanced passage, "but we cannot abandon our fundamental obligations to the people who need Medicare and Medicaid. America cannot become stronger if they become weaker."
At times there was almost a me, too, quality to the speech. Gov. Pete Wilson of California and Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative columnist who is seeking the Republican Presidential nomination for a second time, have crusaded against illegal immigration. Mr. Clinton echoed them and announced that he would soon sign an executive order to deny Federal contracts to companies that hired illegal immigrants.
In a sense, the President is trying to position himself during the partial dismantling of the welfare state as liberal Republicans tried to position themselves during the decades when it was being built. We will give you government programs, they said, but we will run them more efficiently. I will cut back big government, he is saying, but I will do it with more compassion.
Not at all the easiest case to make, but in recent months, Mr. Clinton has found ways to make it that most Americans have found persuasive.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After the President's speech, the White House chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, lower center, and Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown spoke to Representative John R. Kasich, right, Republican of Ohio. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); WORLD WAR II (70%); FOCUS GROUPS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); LEON E PANETTA (78%); JOHN KASICH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



633 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 6237 words

HEADLINE: Prepared Text for the President's State of the Union Message

 BODY:
Following is President Clinton's State of the Union Message last night, as recorded by The New York Times:
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of the 104th Congress, distinguished guests, my fellow Americans all across our land. 
 Let me begin tonight by saying to our men and women in uniform around the world, and especially those helping peace take root in Bosnia, and to their families, I thank you. America is very, very proud of you.
My duty tonight is to report on the state of the union, not the state of our government, but of our American community, and to set forth our responsibilities, in the words of our founders, to form a "more perfect union."
The state of the union is strong.
Our economy is the healthiest it has been in three decades. Our economy is the healthiest it has been in three decades. We have the lowest combined rates of unemployment and inflation in 27 years.
We have completed, created nearly eight million new jobs, over a million of them in basic industries like construction and automobiles. America is selling more cars than Japan for the first time since the 1970's, and for three years in a row, we have had a record number of new businesses started in our country.
Our leadership in the world is also strong, bringing hope for new peace. And perhaps most important, we are gaining ground in restoring our fundamental values. The crime rate, the welfare and food stamp rolls, the poverty rate and the teen pregnancy rate are all down. And as they go down, prospects for America's future go up.
We live in an age of possibility. A hundred years ago, we moved from farm to factory. Now we move to an age of technology, information and global competition. These changes have opened vast new opportunities for our people, but they have also presented them with stiff challenges. While more Americans are living better, too many of our fellow citizens are working harder just to keep up and they are rightly concerned about the security of their families.
We must answer here three fundamental questions. First, how do we make the American dream of opportunity for all a reality for all Americans who are willing to work for it? Second, how do we preserve our old and enduring values as we move into the future? And third, how do we meet these challenges together, as one America?
We know big government does not have all the answers. We know there's not a program for every problem. We know, and we have worked to give the American people a smaller, less bureaucratic government in Washington. And we have to give the American people one that lives within its means. The era of big government is over. But we cannot go back to the time when our citizens were left to fend for themselves. Instead, we must go forward as one America, one nation working together to meet the challenges we face together. Self-reliance and teamwork are not opposing virtues. We must have both.
I believe our new, smaller government must work in an old-fashioned American way -- together with all of our citizens, through state and local governments, in the workplace, in religious, charitable and civic associations. Our goal must be to enable all our people to make the most of their own lives with stronger families, more educational opportunity, economic security, safer streets, a cleaner environment, in a safer world.
To improve the state of our union, we must all ask more of ourselves; we must expect more of each other, and we must face our challenges together.
 
Balancing the Budget
Here, in this place, our responsibility begins with balancing the budget in a way that is fair to all Americans. There is now broad bipartisan agreement that permanent deficit spending must come to an end.
I compliment the Republican leadership and the membership for the energy and determination you have brought to this task of balancing the budget. And I thank the Democrats for passing the largest deficit reduction plan in history in 1993, which has already cut the deficit nearly in half in three years.
Since 1993, we have all begun to see the benefits of deficit reduction. Lower interest rates have made it easier for businesses to borrow and to invest and to create new jobs. Lower interest rates have brought down the cost of home mortgages, car payments and credit-card rates to ordinary citizens. Now it is time to finish the job and balance the budget.
Though differences remain among us, which are significant, the combined total of the proposed savings that are common to both plans is more than enough, using the numbers from your Congressional Budget Office, to balance the budget in seven years and to provide a modest tax cut. These cuts are real -- they will require sacrifice from everyone -- but these cuts do not undermine our fundamental obligations to our parents, our children and our future by endangering Medicare or Medicaid or education or the environment or by raising taxes on working families.
I have said before, and let me say again, many good ideas have come out of our negotiations. I have learned a lot about the way both Republicans and Democrats view the debate before us. I have learned a lot about the good ideas that each side has that we could all embrace. We ought to resolve our remaining differences. I am willing to work to resolve them. I am ready to meet tomorrow. But I ask you to consider that we should enact these savings that both plans have in common and give the American people their balanced budget, a tax cut, lower interest rates and a brighter future. We should do that now and make permanent deficits yesterday's legacy.
Now it is the time for us to look also to the challenges of today and tomorrow, beyond the burdens of yesterday. The challenges are significant. But our nation was built on challenges. America was built on challenges, not promises. And when we work together to meet them, we never fail. That is the key to a more perfect union: Our individual dreams must be realized by our common efforts.
Tonight, I want to speak to you about the challenges we all face as a people.
 
Strengthening Families
Our first challenge is to cherish our children and strengthen America's family.
Families are the foundation of American life. If we have stronger families, we will have a stronger America.
Before I go on, I'd like to take just a moment to thank my own family and to thank the person who has taught me more than anyone else over 25 years about the importance of families and children -- a wonderful wife, a magnificent mother and a great First Lady. Thank you, Hillary.
All strong families begin with taking more responsibility for our children. I've heard Mrs. Gore say that it's hard to be a parent today, but it's even harder to be a child. So all of us, not just as parents, but all of us in our other roles -- our media, our schools, our teachers, our communities, our churches and synagogues, our businesses, our governments -- all of us have a responsibility to help our children to make it and to make the most of their lives in their God-given capacities.
To the media: I say you should create movies and CD's and television shows you'd want your own children and grandchildren to enjoy. I call on Congress to pass the requirement for a "V" chip in TV sets, so that parents can screen out programs they believe are inappropriate for their children.
When parents control what their young children see, that is not censorship. That is enabling parents to assume more personal responsibility for their children's upbringing. And I urge them to do it. The "V" chip requirement is part of the important telecommunications bill now pending in this Congress. It has bipartisan support, and I urge you to pass it now.
To make the "V" chip work, I challenge the broadcast industry to do what movies have done -- to identify your program in ways that help parents to protect their children -- and I invite the leaders of major media corporations in the entertainment industry to come to the White House next month to work with us in a positive way on concrete ways to improve what our children see on television. I am ready to work with you.
I say to those who make and market cigarettes -- Every year, a million children take up smoking even though it's against the law; 300,000 of them will have their lives shortened as a result.
Our Administration has taken steps to stop the massive marketing campaigns that appeal to our children. We are simply saying: Market your products to adults, if you wish, but draw the line on children.
I say to those who are on welfare, and especially to those who have been trapped on welfare for a long time: For too long our welfare system has undermined the values of family and work instead of supporting them. The Congress and I are near agreement on sweeping welfare reform. We agree on time limits, tough work requirements and the toughest possible child-support enforcement. But I believe we must also provide child care so that mothers who are required to go to work can do so without worrying about what is happening to their children. I challenge this Congress to send me a bipartisan welfare reform bill that will really move people from welfare to work and do the right thing by our children. I will sign it immediately.
But let us be candid about this difficult problem. Passing a law, even the best possible law, is only a first step. The next step is to make it work. I challenge people on welfare to make the most of this opportunity for independence. I challenge American businesses to give people on welfare the chance to move into the work force. I applaud the work of religious groups and others who care for the poor. More than anyone else in our society, they know the true difficulty of the task before us, and they are in a position to help. Every one of us should join them. That is the only way we can make real welfare reform a reality in the lives of the American people.
To strengthen the family, we must do everything we can to keep the teen pregnancy rate going down. I am gratified, as I'm sure all Americans are, that it has dropped for two years in a row. But we all know it is still far too high. Tonight I am pleased to announce that a group of prominent Americans is responding to that challenge by forming an organization that will support grass-roots community efforts all across our country in a national campaign against teen pregnancy. And I challenge all of us and every American to join their efforts.
I call on American men and women in families to give greater respect to one another. We must end the deadly scourge of domestic violence in our country. And I challenge America's families to work harder to stay together. For families that stay together not only do better economically; their children do better as well.
In particular, I challenge the fathers of this country to love and care for their children. If your family has separated, you must pay your child support. We're doing more than ever to make sure you do, and we're going to do more. But let's all admit something about that, too: A check will never substitute for a parent's love and guidance, and only you, only you, can make the decision to help raise your children. No matter who you are, how low or high your station in life, it is the most basic human duty of every American to do that job to the best of his or her ability.
 
Goals in Education
Our second challenge is to provide Americans with the educational opportunities we'll all need for this new century.
In our schools, every classroom in America must be connected to the information superhighway, with computers and good software and well-trained teachers. We are working with the telecommunications industry, educators and parents to connect 20 percent of California's classrooms by this spring, and every classroom and every library in the entire United States by the year 2000. I ask Congress to support this education technology initiative so that we can make sure this national partnership succeeds.
Every diploma ought to mean something. I challenge every community, every school and every state to adopt national standards of excellence, to measure whether schools are meeting those standards, to cut bureaucratic red tape so that schools and teachers have more flexibility for grass-roots reforms, and to hold them accountable for results. That's what our Goals 2000 initiative is all about.
I challenge every state to give all parents the right to choose which public school their children will attend and to let teachers form new schools with a charter they can keep only if they do a good job.
I challenge all our schools to teach character education, to teach good values and good citizenship. And if it means that teen-agers will stop killing each other over designer jackets, then our public schools should be able to require their students to wear school uniforms.
I challenge our parents to become their children's first teachers. Turn off the TV. See that the homework is done and visit your children's classroom. No program, no teacher, no one else can do that for you.
My fellow Americans, higher education is more important today than ever before. We've created a new student loan program that's made it easier to borrow and repay those loans, and we have dramatically cut the student loan default rate. That's something we should all be proud of because it was unconscionably high just a few years ago. Through Americorps, our national service program, this year 25,000 young people will earn college money by serving their local communities to improve the lives of their friends and neighbors. These initiatives are right for America, and we should keep them going.
And we should also work hard to open the doors of college even wider. I challenge Congress to expand work study and help one million young Americans work their way through college by the year 2000; to provide a $1,000 merit scholarship for the top 5 percent of graduates in every high school in the United States; to expand Pell Grant scholarships for deserving and needy students, and to make up to $10,000 a year of college tuition tax deductible. It's a good idea for America.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 
Economic Security
Our third challenge is to help every American who is willing to work for it achieve economic security in this new age.
People who work hard still need support to get ahead in the new economy. They need education and training for a lifetime. They need more support for families raising children. They need retirement security. They need access to health care.
More and more Americans are finding that the education of their childhood simply doesn't last a lifetime. So I challenge Congress to consolidate 70 overlapping, antiquated job-training programs into a simple voucher worth $2,600 for unemployed or underemployed workers to use as they please for a community college tuition or other training. This is a G.I. Bill for America's workers we should all be able to agree on.
Thank you. Thank you.
More and more Americans are working hard without a raise. Congress sets the minimum wage. Within a year, the minimum wage will fall to a 40-year low in purchasing power; $4.25 an hour is no longer a minimum wage but millions of Americans and their children are trying to live on it. I challenge you to raise their minimum wage.
Thank you.
In 1993, Congress cut the taxes of 15 million hard-pressed working families to make sure no parent who worked full time would have to raise their children in poverty, and to encourage people to move from welfare to work. This expanded Earned-Income Tax Credit is now worth about $1,800 a year to a family of four living on $20,000. The budget bill I vetoed would have reversed this achievement and raised taxes on nearly eight million of these people. We should not do that. We should not do that.
But I also agree that the people who are helped under this initiative are not all those in our country who are working hard to do a good job raising their children and at work. I agree that we need a tax credit for working families with children. That's one of the things most of us in this chamber, I hope, can agree on. I know it is strongly supported by the Republican majority, and it should be a part of any final budget agreement.
But I also agree that the people who are helped under this initiative are not all those in our country who are working hard to do a good job raising their children and at work. I agree that we need a tax credit for working families with children. That's one of the things most of us in this chamber, I hope, can agree on. I know it is strongly supported by the Republican majority and it should be part of any final budget agreement.
I want to challenge every business that can possibly afford it to provide pensions for your employees, and I challenge Congress to pass a proposal recommended by the White House Conference on Small Business that would make it easier for small businesses and farmers to establish their own pension plans. That is something we should all agree on.
We should also protect existing pension plans. Two years ago, with bipartisan support that was almost unanimous on both sides of the aisle, we moved to protect the pensions of eight million working people, and to stabilize the pensions of 32 million more. Congress should not now let companies endanger those workers' pension funds. I know the proposal to liberalize the ability of employers to take money out of pension funds for other purposes would raise money for the Treasury, but I believe it is false economy. I vetoed that proposal last year, and I would have to do so again.
Finally, if our working families are going to succeed in the new economy, they must be able to buy health insurance policies that they do not lose when they change jobs or when someone in their family gets sick. Over the past two years, over one million Americans in working families have lost their health insurance. We have to do more to make health care available to every American. And Congress should start by passing the bipartisan bill sponsored by Senator Kennedy and Senator Kassebaum that would require insurance companies to stop dropping people when they switch jobs, and stop denying coverage for pre-existing conditions. Let's all do that.
And even as we enact savings in these programs, we must have a common commitment to preserve the basic protections of Medicare and Medicaid, not just to the poor, but to people in working families, including children, people with disabilities, people with AIDS, senior citizens in nursing homes. In the past three years, we've saved $15 billion just by fighting health care fraud and abuse. We have all agreed to save much more. We have all agreed to stabilize the Medicare trust fund. But we must not abandon our fundamental obligations to the people who need Medicare and Medicaid. America cannot become stronger if they become weaker.
The G.I. Bill for workers, tax relief for education and child-rearing, pension availability and protection, access to health care, preservation of Medicare and Medicaid, these things -- along with the Family and Medical Leave Act passed in 1993 -- these things will help responsible hard-working American families to make the most of their own lives.
But employers and employees must do their part as well, as they are doing in so many of our finest companies -- working together, putting the long-term prosperity ahead of the short-term gain. As workers increase their hours and their productivities, employers should make sure they get the skills they need and share the benefits of the good years as well as the burdens of the bad ones. When companies and workers work as a team, they do better. And so does America.
 
Fighting Crime
Our fourth great challenge is to take our streets back from crime and gangs and drugs.
At last, we have begun to find the way to reduce crime -- forming community partnerships with local police forces to catch criminals and prevent crime. This strategy, called community policing, is clearly working Violent crime is coming down all across America.
In New York City, murders are down 25 percent, in St. Louis 18 percent, in Seattle 32 percent. But we still have a long way to go before our streets are safe and our people are free from fear.
The crime bill of 1994 is critical to the success of community policing. It provides funds for 100,000 new police in communities of all sizes. We are already a third of the way there. And I challenge the Congress to finish the job. Let us stick with a strategy that's working, and keep the crime rate coming down.
Community policing also requires bonds of trust between citizens and police. I ask all Americans to respect and support our law-enforcement officers. And to our police I say: Our children need you as role models and heroes. Don't let them down.
The Brady bill has already stopped 44,000 people with criminal records from buying guns. The assault weapons ban is keeping 19 kinds of assault weapons out of the hands of violent gangs. I challenge the Congress to keep those laws on the books.
Our next step in the fight against crime is to take on gangs the way we once took on the mob. I am directing the F.B.I. and other investigative agencies to target gangs that involve juveniles in violent crime, and to seek authority to prosecute as adults teen-agers who maim and kill like adults.
And I challenge local housing authorities and tenant associations: Criminal gang members and drug dealers are destroying the lives of decent tenants. From now on, the rule for residents who commit crime and peddle drugs should be one strike and you're out.
I challenge every state to match Federal policy to assure that serious violent criminals serve at least 85 percent of their sentence.
More police and punishment are important, but they're not enough. We have got to keep more of our young people out of trouble, with prevention strategies not dictated by Washington, but developed in communities. I challenge all of our communities, all of our adults to give our children futures to say yes to. And I challenge Congress not to abandon the crime bill's support of these grass-roots prevention efforts.
Finally, to reduce crime and violence, we have to reduce the drug problem. The challenge begins in our homes, with parents talking to their children openly and firmly. It embraces our churches and synagogues, our youth groups and our schools. I challenge Congress not to cut our support for drug-free schools. People like these D.A.R.E. officers are making a real impression on grade school children that will give them the strength to say no when the time comes.
Meanwhile, we continue our efforts to cut the flow of drugs into America. For the last two years, one man in particular has been on the front lines of that effort. Tonight I am nominating him, a hero of the Persian Gulf and the commander in chief of the U.S. military's Southern Command, Gen. Barry McCaffrey, as America's new drug czar.
General McCaffrey has earned three purple hearts and two silver stars fighting for this country. Tonight I ask that he lead our nation's battle against drugs at home and abroad. To succeed, he needs a force far larger than he has ever commanded before. He needs all of us. Every one of us have a role to play on this team. Thank you, General McCaffrey, for agreeing to serve your country one more time.
 
A Clean Environment
Our fifth challenge: to leave our environment safe and clean for the next generation.
Because of a generation of bipartisan effort, we do have cleaner water and air. Lead levels in children's blood has been cut by 70 percent, toxic emissions from factories cut in half. Lake Erie was dead and now it is a thriving resource.
But 10 million children under 12 still live within four miles of a toxic waste dump. A third of us breathe air that endangers our health. And in too many communities, the water is not safe to drink. We still have much to do.
Yet Congress has voted to cut environmental enforcement by 25 percent. That means more toxic chemicals in our water, more smog in our air, more pesticides in our food. Lobbyists for our polluters have been allowed to write their own loopholes into bills to weaken laws that protect the health and safety of our children. Some say that the taxpayers should pick up the tab for toxic waste and let polluters, who can afford to fix it, off the hook.
I challenge Congress to re-examine those policies and to reverse them. I believe this issue has not been a partisan issue. The most significant environmental gains in the last 30 years were made under a Democratic Congress and President Richard Nixon. We can work together. We have to believe some basic things.
Do you believe we can expand the economy without hurting the environment? I do. Do you believe we can create more jobs over the long run by cleaning the environment up? I know we can. That should be our commitment.
We must challenge businesses and communities to take more initiative in protecting the environment, and we have to make it easier for them to do it. To businesses, this Administration is saying: If you can find a cheaper, more efficient way than government regulations require to meet tough pollution standards, do it -- as long as you do it right.
To communities we say: We must strengthen community right-to-know laws requiring polluters to disclose their emissions, but you have to use the information to work with business to cut pollution. People do have a right to know that their air and their water are safe.
Our sixth challenge is to maintain America's leadership in the fight for freedom and peace throughout the world.
Because of American leadership, more people than ever before live free and at peace, and Americans have known 50 years of prosperity and security. We owe thanks especially to our veterans of World War II.
I would like to say to Senator Bob Dole and to all others in this chamber who fought in World War II, and to all others on both sides of the aisle who have fought bravely in all our conflicts since, I salute your service and so do the American people.
All over the world, even after the cold war, people still look to us, and trust us to help them seek the blessings of peace and freedom.
But as the cold war fades into memory, voices of isolation say America should retreat from its responsibilities. I say they are wrong.
The threats we face today as Americans respect no nation's borders. Think of them: terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, organized crime, drug trafficking, ethnic and religious hatred, aggression by rogue states, environmental degradation. If we fail to address these threats today, we will suffer the consequences in all our tomorrows.
 
Rejecting Isolationism
Of course we can't be everywhere. Of course we can't do everything. But where our interests and our values are at stake -- and where we can make a difference -- America must lead. We must not be isolationist; we must not be the world's policeman. But we can, and should, be the world's very best peacemaker.
By keeping our military strong, by using diplomacy where we can and force where we must, by working with others to share the risk and the cost of our efforts, America is making a difference for people here and around the world.
For the first time since the dawn of the nuclear age, for the first time since the dawn of the nuclear age, there is not a single Russian missile pointed at America's children. North Korea has now frozen its dangerous nuclear weapons program. In Haiti, the dictators are gone, democracy has a new day, the flow of desperate refugees to our shores has subsided.
Through tougher trade deals for America, over 80 of them, we have opened markets abroad, and now exports are at an all-time high, growing faster than imports and creating good American jobs.
We stood with those taking risks for peace -- in Northern Ireland, where Catholic and Protestant children now tell their parents violence must never return, in the Middle East, where Arabs and Jews, who once seemed destined to fight forever, now share knowledge and resources and even dreams.
And we stood up for peace in Bosnia. Remember the skeletal prisoners, the mass graves, the campaigns of rape and torture, the endless lines of refugees, the threat of a spreading war -- all these threats, all these horrors have now begun to give way to the promise of peace.
Now our troops and a strong NATO, together with our new partners from Central Europe and elsewhere, are helping that peace to take hold.
As all of you know, I was just there with a bipartisan Congressional group, and I was so proud, not only of what our troops were doing, but of the pride they evidenced in what they were doing. They knew what America's mission in this world is, and they were proud to be carrying it out.
Through these efforts, we have enhanced the security of the American people. But make no mistake about it, important challenges remain. The Start II treaty with Russia will cut our nuclear stockpiles by another 25 percent; I urge the Senate to ratify it -- now. We must end the race to create new nuclear weapons by signing a truly comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty -- this year. As we remember what happened in the Japanese subway, we can outlaw poison gas forever, if the Senate ratifies the Chemical Weapons Convention -- this year. We can intensify the fight against terrorists and organized criminals at home and abroad, if Congress passes the anti-terrorism legislation I proposed after the Oklahoma City bombing -- now. We can help more people move from hatred to hope all across the world in our own interest -- if Congress gives us the means to remain the world's leader for peace.
 
Challenging Washington
My fellow Americans, the six challenges I have discussed are for all of us. Our seventh challenge is really America's challenge to those of us in this hallowed hall tonight: reinvent our government and make our democracy work for them. Last year, this Congress applied to itself the laws it applies to everyone else. This Congress banned gifts and meals from lobbyists. This Congress forced lobbyists to disclose who pays them and what legislation they are trying to pass or kill. This Congress did that, and I applaud you for it.
Now I challenge Congress to go further: to curb special interest influence in politics by passing the first truly bipartisan campaign finance reform bill in a generation. You, Republicans and Democrats alike, can show the American people that we can limit spending and we can open the airwaves to all candidates.
And I also appeal to Congress to pass the line-item veto you promised the American people.
Our Administration is working hard to give the American people a government that works better and costs less. Thanks to the work of Vice President Gore, we are eliminating 16,000 pages of unnecessary rules and regulations, shifting more decision-making out of Washington, back to states and communities.
As we move into the era of balanced budgets and smaller government, we must work in new ways to enable people to make the most of their own lives. We are helping America's communities, not with more bureaucracy, but with more opportunities. Through our successful empowerment zones and community development banks, we're helping people to find jobs, to start businesses. And with tax incentives for companies that clean up abandoned industrial property, we can bring jobs back to places that desperately, desperately need them.
 
Immigration Enforcement
But there are some areas that the Federal Government should not leave, and should address and address strongly. One of these areas is the problem of illegal immigration. After years of neglect, this Administration has taken a strong stand to stiffen the protection of our borders. We are increasing border controls by 50 percent; we are increasing inspections to prevent the hiring of illegal immigrants.
And tonight, I announce I will sign an executive order to deny Federal contracts to businesses that hire illegal immigrants. Let me be very clear about this: We are still a nation of immigrants; we should be proud of it. We should honor every legal immigrant here working hard to be a good citizen, working hard to become a new citizen. But we are also a nation of laws.
I want to say a special word now to those who work for our Federal Government. Today, the Federal work force is 200,000 employees smaller than it was the day I took office as President. Our Federal Government today is the smallest it has been in 30 years, and it's getting smaller every day. Most of our fellow Americans probably don't know that, and there's a good reason, a good reason. The remaining Federal work force is composed of hard-working Americans who are now working harder and working smarter than ever before to make sure the quality of our services does not decline.
I'd like to give you one example. His name is Richard Dean. He's a 49-year-old Vietnam veteran who's worked for the Social Security Administration for 22 years now. Last year, he was hard at work in the Federal Building in Oklahoma City when the blast killed 169 people and brought the rubble down all around him. He re-entered that building four times. He saved the lives of three women. He's here with us this evening. And I, I want to recognize Richard and applaud both his public service and his extraordinary personal heroism.
But Richard Dean's story doesn't end there. This last November, he was forced out of his office when the Government shut down. And the second time the Government shut down, he continued helping Social Security recipients, but he was working without pay. On behalf of Richard Dean and his family, and all the other people who are out there working everyday doing a good job for the American people, I challenge all of you in this chamber: Let never, ever, shut the Federal Government down again. On behalf of all Americans, especially those who need their Social Security payments at the beginning of March, I also challenge the Congress to preserve the full faith and credit of the United States, to honor the obligations of this great nation as we have for 220 years, to rise above partisanship and pass a straightforward extension of the debt limit and show people America keeps its word.
I know that this evening I have asked a lot of Congress, and even more from America. But I am confident. When Americans work together in their homes, their schools, their churches and synagogues, their civic groups, their workplace, they can meet any challenge.
I say again: The era of big government is over. But we can't go back to the era of fending for yourself. We have to go forward, to the era of working together -- as a community, as a team, as one America, with all of us reaching across these lines that divide us, the division, the discrimination, the rancor. We have to reach across it to find common ground. We have got to work together if we want America to work. I want you to meet two more people tonight who do just that. Lucius Wright is a teacher in the Jackson, Miss., public school system. A Vietnam veteran, he's created groups to help inner city children turn away from gangs and build futures they can believe in. Sgt. Jennifer Rodgers is a police officer in Oklahoma City. Like Richard Dean, she helped to pull her fellow citizens out of the rubble and deal with that awful tragedy. She reminds us that, in their response to that atrocity, the people of Oklahoma City lifted all of us with their basic sense of decency and community.
Lucius Wright and Jennifer Rodgers are special Americans. And I have the honor to announce tonight that they are the very first of several thousand Americans who will be chosen to carry the Olympic torch on its long journey from Los Angeles to the centennial of the modern Olympics in Atlanta this summer -- not because they are star athletes, but because they are star citizens, community heroes meeting America's challenges. They are our real champions. Please stand up. Thank you.
Now each of us must hold high the torch of citizenship in our own lives. None of us can finish the race alone. We can only achieve our destiny together -- one hand, one generation, one American connecting to another.
There have always been things we could do together -- dreams we could make real -- which we could never have done on our own. We Americans have forged our identity, our very union, from the very point of view that we can accommodate every point on the planet, every different opinion.
But we must be bound together by a faith more powerful than any doctrine that divides us, by our belief in progress, our love of liberty and our relentless search for common ground. America has always sought and always risen to every challenge.
Who would say that, having come so far together, we will not go forward from here? Who would say that this age of possibility is not for all Americans?
Our country is, and always has been, a great and good nation. But the best is yet to come if we all do our part.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.
Thank you.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton in the House with her daughter, Chelsea; Lucius Wright, a Mississippi teacher, left; Elie Wiesel, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1986, second from left, and Gen. Barry McCaffrey, right, the Administration's new director of drug policy. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

LEGISLATION: 103 P.L. 3 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT OF 1993 (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CRIME RATES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); POVERTY RATES (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); FOOD STAMPS (64%); ARMED FORCES (57%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



634 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON OFFERS CHALLENGE TO NATION, DECLARING, 'ERA OF BIG GOVERNMENT IS OVER'

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Offering his own idea of limited government to compete with the Republican vision, President Clinton tonight challenged the nation to provide enough educational opportunities, economic security and freedom from crime to allow Americans to make the most of an "age of possibility."
In an election-year State of the Union Message intended far more for voters than for the Republican-controlled Congress, Mr. Clinton separated himself from Democratic orthodoxy, twice pronouncing that the "era of big government is over." 
 But at the same time, he threw down a challenge to Republicans to resume negotiations over balancing the budget and to turn away from tactics like the threat of a Federal default or government shutdown. In the name of Richard Dean, a Federal worker who survived the bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City last April, he urged Congress to "never -- ever -- shut the Federal Government again."
Interrupted 79 times by applause from a visibly partisan and divided Congress, Mr. Clinton outlined seven areas of challenge for the nation and several small steps the Government might take to allow its citizens to help themselves, including a $1,000 merit scholarship for the top 5 percent of graduates from each public high school, an F.B.I.-waged war on youth gangs and tax credits for companies that clean up abandoned industrial sites.
And throughout his speech the President resurrected a central theme of his 1992 campaign, saying citizens must share responsibility with their government, urging families to make efforts to stay together, watch closely over their children and end domestic violence.
"The era of big government is over," Mr. Clinton said. "But we cannot go back to the time when our citizens were left to fend for themselves. We must go forward as one America, one nation working together, to meet the challenges we face together. Self-reliance and teamwork are not opposing virtues -- we must have both." [Transcript, page A14.]
At one point, as he talked of the importance of families, Mr. Clinton paid tribute to his embattled wife, Hillary, who has been subpoened to appear on Friday before a grand jury investigating Whitewater. Looking toward her seat in the House gallery, he called her a "wonderful wife, a magnificent mother and a great First Lady." As their daughter, Chelsea, joined in a standing ovation for Mrs. Clinton, the President and his wife held each other's eyes for a long moment.
In a sign that the Presidential election is already dominating the landscape, Senator Bob Dole, the majority leader who is the front-runner in the race for the Republican nomination, offered the party's response.
Senator Dole criticized Mr. Clinton as "the chief obstacle to a balanced budget," and added: "While the President's words speak of change, his deeds are a contradiction. President Clinton claims to embrace the future while clinging to the policies of the past."
Mr. Clinton spoke for just over an hour -- far shorter that last year's 81-minute marathon. He managed moments of bipartisanship, at one point thanking the Republicans, who have brooked little opposition to their control of Congress, for the "energy and determination" they had brought to their effort to push through a balanced-budget plan. He also praised Mr. Dole in particular, along with other World War II veterans, for their service to their country 50 years ago.
But he also issued sharp challenges to the Republican Congress again and again to pass measures it has resisted, like the minimum wage, to protect programs of his that it has opposed, like the National Service program and the Goals 2000 program for higher education standards, and to send him a welfare bill that he could support instead of the one he vetoed.
And on the budget stalemate, Mr. Clinton asked Congress to enact the savings common both to his balanced budget plan and to the Republicans' plan.
"I am ready to meet tomorrow," he said, "but I ask you to consider that we should at least enact these savings that both plans have in common and give the American people their balanced budget, a tax cut, lower interest rates and a brighter future. We should do that now and make permanent deficits yesterday's legacy."
Less than a year ago, after Republicans swept the 1994 midterm elections and took control of Congress for the first time in 40 years, Mr. Clinton was left having to assert that he was still relevant. But he then made a comeback by accepting Republican calls for a balanced budget in seven years while refusing to agree to the levels of savings they sought in Medicare and Medicaid.
While that posture has led to gridlock in the budget negotiations, he has blamed his Republican adversaries, and his popularity has remained relatively steady.
As he prepares for this year's elections, Mr. Clinton clearly plans to try to pre-empt more Republican ground. In his address, he dwelt at length on crime, long considered an area of Republican strength. And the very first challenge he issued to the nation tonight moved squarely into the area of family values.
The President repeated his support for the "v-chip," a device that would be inserted into television sets to block programs deemed objectionable by parents. And he told the media, "You should create movies, CD's and television shows you'd want you own children and grandchildren to enjoy."
Mr. Clinton invited leaders of major media corporations and the entertainment industry to the White House next month to devise concrete ways to improve what children see on television. White House officials said the invitation was meant to be general, and that no specific meeting had yet been planned.
The President also announced a new crusade against teen-age pregnancy and said Americans must "take our streets back from crime, gangs and drugs."
In other iniatives tonight, Mr. Clinton announced that he had signed an executive order banning Federal contracts with companies that hire illegal aliens.
On economic matters, Mr. Clinton took pains to remind the nation of what he had managed to achieve since he succeeded President George Bush in 1993, things for which he has rarely received public credit. "Our economy is the healthiest it has been in three decades," he said. "We have the lowest combined rates of unemployment and inflation in 27 years. We have created nearly eight million new American jobs."
But the President acknowledged that in the new global economy, "too many of our fellow citizens are working harder just to keep up, and they are rightly concerned about the security of their families."
Echoing the stands he took in the past year in the budget debate, he stressed the importance of the environment, of education and of protecting Medicare and Medicaid.
He challenged Congress to expand the College Work Study program from 700,000 students to more than one million over the next five years, to create merit scholarships to award the top 5 percent of public high school students -- more than 125,000 annually -- with $1,000 scholarships, and repeated his call for a tuition tax deduction of up to $10,000. Aides estimated the three initiatives would cost $3 billion over seven years.
Mr. Clinton also called for creation of a public-private matching fund to insure that every student has access to a modern computer.
To help provide economic security to more Americans, he repeated his call for an increase in the minimum wage, and asked Congress not to roll back the earned income tax credit for working families. And he called for passage of a bipartisan health care bill pending in Congress that would require insurance companies to stop dropping families from health insurance when they switch jobs, or denying coverage for pre-existing conditions.
The President called on Congress to clean up its own house by passing a bipartisan campaign finance bill.
On foreign policy, he appealed to the nation to ignore what he termed "voices of isolation" and to lead by being the world's "best peacemaker." He began his speech by thanking all members of the armed forces, particularly those serving in Bosnia.
In a gesture borrowed from President Ronald Reagan, Mr. Clinton also paid tribute to those whom he invited to sit with his wife in the front row of the House gallery. Among them were a 30-year-old police sergeant, Jennifer Rodgers, one of the first to reach the bombed Federal Building in Oklahoma City; Dr. Lucius Wright, a teacher and Vietnam War veteran who has created groups that help inner-city children turn away from gangs, and Aaron Feuerstein, a Massachusetts mill owner who kept his employees on the payroll despite a fire that destroyed his factory.
Other guests included Elie Wiesel, the Holocaust survivor and author, and Mayors Norman Rice of Seattle and Richard Daley of Chicago.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton addressed the country last night and said, "To improve the state of our union, we must all ask more of ourselves." (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); When President Clinton Challenged Congress last night to keep the ban on assault weapons on the books, Democrats stoos and applauded, while Republicans, right, kept their seats. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CORP; MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CORP; MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ; ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (96%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; WHITEWATER CASE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS; SUBPOENAS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); TELEVISION; VIOLENCE; MUSIC; MOTION PICTURES; CENSORSHIP; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHILDREN (87%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); CENSORSHIP (69%); BOMBINGS (69%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); ETHICS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); GRAND JURY (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; DOLE, BOB (SEN) ; MCCAFFREY, BARRY R (GEN) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



635 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE UNION: THE CONFLICT;
Republicans Tussle Over Stopgate Bill but Agree to Put Off Debt Issue Until February

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23

 BODY:
House and Senate Republicans agreed today to put off action on the national debt limit until late February, but they failed to agree on details of a bill intended to keep the Government from another partial shutdown on Saturday.
Speaker Newt Gingrich said Republicans would not pass a measure increasing the borrowing limit free of conditions, but would seek to choose terms that might be acceptable to President Clinton -- like, possibly, a tax cut to help families with children. 
 The debt measure will not come up until Congress returns on Feb. 26, six days after the New Hampshire primary, to Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, said.
A stopgap spending bill, required because Mr. Clinton has vetoed three bills and Congress has failed to send him three others, will probably be brought up for votes in both houses on Thursday.
House Republicans want more severe spending cuts than many senators want to accept. Representative Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, made it clear that "the Senate hasn't signed off" on a House proposal under which programs could be cut up to 25 percent from either last year's spending level or this year's House proposal.
That is the level specified in the current temporary spending measure, which was passed on Jan. 5 and expires at midnight on Friday. But Democratic critics, and some Republicans, fear that another measure at this level would be especially harmful to schools and colleges.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, the senior Democrat on the Labor and Human Resources Committee, told the Senate today that another measure at the same level "will take us past critical budget, planning and teacher contract dates in school districts and will wreak havoc on the college admissions and financial aid process for high school students."
Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum of Kansas, the committee chairman, said Mr. Kennedy was exaggerating the risks because "we aren't going to cut as much as the House wants."
There was also Republican opposition to the idea of putting conditions on an increase in the statutory limit on the national debt. That limit, $4.9 trillion, was reached on Nov. 15, and since then Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin has juggled balances in pension accounts to avoid defaulting on Government bonds and other obligations.
The last time the Republicans passed a debt limit extension, in November, President Clinton vetoed it because it included a prohibition on the maneuvering Mr. Rubin was doing. It also included limits on death row appeals and would have made it harder to issue environmental, health and safety regulations. This time Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, has suggested including elimination of the Commerce Department in the debt measure.
Representative Marge Roukema, Republican of New Jersey, was seeking other signatures on a letter to be sent to Mr. Gingrich warning that default would cause much higher interest rates. "As Republicans dedicated to fiscal responsibility and protecting the economic future of our children and their children," her letter read, "we must pass a clean debt limit extension and in so doing, avoid default."
House Democrats hope to exploit that division among Republicans next week by forcing a vote on a resolution calling for an unencumbered debt limit bill. But Mr. Dole said there "could be quite a load" on the bill when it reached the Senate. "You may need wagons," he said.
Representative Bill Archer of Texas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said the leadership would not bring up a debt bill that would not have "overwhelming" Republican support in the House. "We're brainstorming all kinds of options," he said.
House Republicans agreed at a closed caucus on one element of the new stopgap spending bill -- its name. Instead of calling it a "continuing resolution," the usual term for such measures, they decided it would be known as the Balanced Budget Down Payment Act.
Mr. Livingston said that was because the cuts in it would start moving the country toward a balanced budget. Representative Dick Zimmer, Republican of New Jersey, added, "We are going to keep doing this until we run out of names."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (56%); REPUBLICAN OF NEW JERSEY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF NEW JERSEY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); VETO (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (66%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); CLYMER, ADAM BILL CLINTON (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); TED KENNEDY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



636 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1693 words

HEADLINE: Text of the G.O.P. Response: 'The Future and the Values That Will Shape It'

 BODY:
Following is the Republican response by Senator Bob Dole of Kansas to President Clinton's State of the Union Message last night, as recorded by The New York Times:
I'm Bob Dole, and I'm here very gratefully to reply to the President's message on the state of the union. But a reply need not be an argument. Instead, I want to present another view. Another way of thinking about the problems we face. 
 A few years back I met with a group of a hundred high school seniors -- one young man and woman from every state. During the meeting one young man stood up and said: "Senator, everybody has somebody who speak for them. But who speaks for us?" he asked me. "Who speaks for the future?"
That's what I want to talk with you about tonight. The future and the values that will shape it. Those values are at the heart of our disagreements with the President. President Clinton says our differences are few, the budget numbers are close and that we should try to find common ground. We have tried and tried. Again and again. But such a place appears to be elusive.
For while we share an abiding love of country, we have been unable to agree. Why? Because we have starkly different philosophies of government and profoundly different visions of America. So all the talk and fighting in Washington can seem very remote. And we political figures can seem detached. And petty. And far removed from the every-day struggle of American citizens and families.
But the truth is we can not ignore the future. The point of our lives, after all, is to raise children who are smarter and healthier and nobler than we are. To contribute to a country that is better than today's America; to make a world that is better and finer for all of God's creation.
America's greatness -- all that we take such justified pride in today -- America's greatness was built by men and women who sacrificed ease and comfort and the joys of today, to build a better future for those who came after. How many pioneers faced a hostile and threatening frontier? How many immigrants gave their bodies to the mines? And how many soldiers lost their lives on the distant battlefields to secure a better future for their children and their children's children?
In every generations, Americans made these sacrifices, and found in their making a purpose and a direction to life. Now we have to do that in this generation. And thanks to God and fortune, to those who went before, we don't have to conquer a dangerous frontier. We don't have to fight another great war. What we do have to do is face the fact that we cannot give in to all of our own desires. As we have just heard, President Clinton, and those who share his vision of America, have chosen their ground.
The President has chosen to defend, with his veto, a welfare system that no one can defend -- for it is a daily assault on the values of self-reliance and family. He has chosen to defend an education establishment run by liberals whose goal is to operate every school in America by remote control from Washington. He has chosen to veto a defense bill because it provided for defending America against weapons of mass destruction.
He has chosen to defend the status quo in Medicare -- a system on which lives depend and a program in urgent need of rescue. President Clinton has chosen to defend and increase a tax burden that has pushed countless families into their own personal recessions. And unfortunately he has chosen to veto the first balanced budget in a generation, offering only a fantasy in its place.
 
Place Where Compromise Ends
Now if you have a child asleep in your home tonight, you will probably check on him or her before you go to bed. And as you bend over to tuck your child in, think about this: If we continue down this path we will place a tremendous burden of debt on every child in America. Now how can we betray them and their parents and their grandparents? How can we fail to act? We cannot, and we will not.
Every political movement and every public official must locate a place in his heart where compromise ends -- a core of conviction where we keep our conscience. There comes a time when even practical leaders must refuse to bend or to yield. And for Republicans and countless Democrats and independents, we have arrived at that time.
America's troubles are real, but our choices are clear and our will is strong. We must rein in our runaway Government, return power to the people, reduce the tax burden, put parents back in charge of our schools, untie the hands of our police, restore justice to our courts and put our faith once again in the basic goodness, wisdom and self-reliance of our people.
The President spoke with great eloquence tonight about a future with unlimited possibilities. It is a vision we all share, for it is the story of America.
But while the President's words speak of change, his deeds are a contradiction. The President claims to embrace the future while clinging to the policies of the past.
For three years this Administration has valued dependence on Government over self-reliance, Federal power over community, Federal planning over individual enterprise. It has tried to place Government experts in charge of our economy and our health and our lives.
It has put liberal judges on the bench to war with our values and it questions the participation of religious people in public life, treating them as fanatics out of step with America.
President Clinton shares a view of America held by our country's elites.
A nation of special interest groups united only by a dependence on government, competing with each other for handouts, and held back by outdated values. Now for those who hold this view, there's only one answer for our problems:
More government.
Bigger government.
And more meddlesome government.
And if you listened closely tonight, that's what President Clinton talked about. President Clinton may well be the rear guard of the welfare state. He is the chief obstacle to a balanced budget and the balanced budget amendment. He is almost the last public defender of a discredited status quo. We Republicans will not give up the struggle because America will round the corner to a brighter future if we prevail.
 
Miracle of America
I come from Russell, Kan. There's not much money there, but the people are rich in many other ways. Life isn't always easy, but the values are durable. Love of God and country and family. Commitment to honesty, decency and personal responsibility. And self-reliance tempered by a sense of community.
Those values made America the greatest nation on earth, and there is no doubt in my mind that we can get our country back on track if we reassert them again as a people. And if our government returns to them as a matter of national policy.
Now just like the debate over the budget this wither, our arguments this spring will seem a maze of conflicting numbers, assertions and high-sounding words. But what we're really arguing about are the values that will shape our nation, our government, and the future of that child sleeping down the hall.
Now some people try to make these matters complicated, but they're simple in my home town -- and probably where you are as well. Americans know that handouts without responsibility destroy human dignity.
We know that the help of a neighbor is preferable to that of a bureaucrat. And we know that wealth is created by free individuals in their smarts and their sweat. Government programs can only spend it.
Now I'm a very practical man, but I believe in the miracle of America. And I've never gone in for dramatics, but I do believe we have reached a defining moment. It is as if we went to sleep in one America and woke up in quite another.
 
Defunding Big Brother
It is as though our Government, and our institutions and our culture have been hijacked by liberals and are careening dangerously off course. Well, we know the way back, but we must act now. And my promise tonight is that we can, and we will.
If there is no agreement, we will send President Clinton another balanced budget with tax relief for American families, regulatory relief for small business, farmers and ranchers and real welfare reform.
We will always be mindful of the poor and disadvantaged, education and the environment. But we will begin the defunding of Big Brother by unfunding wasteful programs and meddlesome departments. We will send the President bill after bill, returning power and programs to the states and to the people.
We will challenge President Clinton again and again to walk the talk he talks so well. As we do, remember this: Our battles will not be about numbers. They'll be about the character of our nation. Yes, our country has problems. But we can handle them.
Whether it's deficit spending or the welfare bureaucracy or our liberal courts or the trouble in our schools, what's wrong is that the elites in charge don't believe in what the people believe in. That we can fix. We know what made America great. All we need now is the resolve to lead our country back to her place in the sun, and the courage to speak for the future.
 
Work of the Lord
So, when you close the door to your child's room tonight, remember it's not too late. This is a great country. Our strength has always come from the truth, and from sacrifice and honor, and from the bottomless reservoir of hope and work and courage that is the American people. Always, we have built for the future with a half-silent consciousness that we were doing the work of the Lord.
Today, we feel ourselves beset by many difficulties: by violence and resentment, by racial and partisan divisions, by economic storms, by dizzying changes of every kind.
Yet, the blood of greatness, of noble forebearers, of men and women of incredible achievement still runs through us all. That birthright is what it means to bear the name "American."
In this time, in this generation, in this year, we -- like they -- can and will overcome. We need only to rededicate ourselves to earning the name we have inherited.
Thank you very much. God bless America, and good night.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MEN (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (55%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996



637 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: On Crime, Look to More Cost-Effective Antidotes Than Prison

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Prisons Are a Bargain, by Any Measure" (Op-Ed, Jan. 16), by John J. DiIulio Jr.: If you look at the numbers, you discover that cost-effective is what prisons are not. 
 Increasing incarceration rates do not result in decreasing crime rates, in part because few crimes result in imprisonment or arrest. This is not because judges are soft on criminals but because 90 percent of crimes are either not reported or go unsolved.
Mr. DiIulio, while noting the economist Steven D. Levitt's assertion that incarcerating one prisoner reduces the number of crimes by 13 a year, fails to note Mr. Levitt's further assertion that increasing our prison population beyond its current level would not be cost-effective.
The $25,000 average cost a year to keep a convicted criminal in prison that Mr. DiIulio cites takes into account only operational and direct building expenditures and ignores the huge costs of the long-term financing required to build new prisons. A maximum-security bed in New York State, for example, costs $100,000 to build, and $200,000 more to finance.
Moreover, if we abolish parole and adopt "one strike, you're out" sentencing, we will be keeping people in prison beyond the age at which they constitute a threat to society. The average cost of incarcerating a prisoner over age 60 is around $65,000 a year, while less than 1 percent of serious crime is committed by people in that age group.
Incarceration of convicted violent criminals may be the best answer for some young offenders during crime-prone years. But for most nonviolent offenders there are indeed more cost-effective alternatives than prison. Western Europe, Japan, Canada and Australia use such alternatives, and their incarceration rates are between one-tenth and one-quarter of ours. These countries have lower rates of violent crime than the United States. We need to see which of their programs can work for us.
 
ELIZABETH ALEXANDER
Acting Dir., National Prison Project
American Civil Liberties Union
Washington, Jan. 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (75%); CANADA (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (75%); CANADA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS PRISONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); PAROLE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (72%); JUVENILE CRIME (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); 

PERSON: DIIULIO, JOHN J JR JOHN J DIIULIO JR (85%); STEVEN D LEVITT (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



638 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: American Center In Paris Must Sell Its Home

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING 

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 24

 BODY:
The American Center, which for 65 years has served as both promoter and window of American culture in Paris, announced today that it had lost its battle for economic survival and would close and sell its new ultra-modern headquarters on the eastern edge of the city.
Inaugurated just 19 months ago, the striking $41 million building designed by Frank Gehry had been hailed as an exciting symbol of American self-confidence and an important addition to the fast-changing Parisian landscape. But from the moment it opened, the building's $6 million annual operating cost was more than the center could afford. 
 One problem was that almost all of the $42 million raised by selling the center's old headquarters on the Boulevard Raspail on the Left Bank was spent on the new building, leaving the center without an income-generating endowment. The center, which receives no United States Government support, also discovered that many promises of corporate sponsorship made in the booming late 80's were broken in the more penny-pinching mid-90's.
Last summer, the center's chairman, Frederick B. Henry, and its executive director, Marie-Claude Beaud, began warning that the building might have to close. They looked for an investor willing to buy it and rent it back to the center. They proposed a partnership with the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. And they tried to convince American corporations that an American cultural presence in Paris was worth saving. But no reprieve was found.
"I think it is sad that, for all its economic problems, a country as rich as the United States is not willing to keep alive a place that is called the American Center," Ms. Beaud said in a telephone interview before she announced the closing to her 23-member staff. "I was very disappointed by the lack of response."
Founded in 1931, the center was a frequent gathering point for American expatriate artists and writers before World War II and even more so in the late 1940's and 50's. It also organized classes in English and in modern American dance that were very popular with young French people. After the center moved from the Boulevard Raspail to the eastern Bercy district, however, it focused principally on the promotion of avant-garde culture.
Even more of a problem, Bercy lies far from many residential areas, and plans for an improved subway connection were repeatedly postponed. Several Americans who expressed regret over the center's closing admitted today that they had never visited the new building. "They went crazy and built this palace in the middle of nowhere," said one longtime resident of Paris.
At least in name, however, the American Center will not disappear. A statement issued by its board said that the center planned to use the proceeds from the sale of the Gehry building "to establish a fund to support a variety of cultural and educational activities and programs, including direct grants." It also said the center would continue to view its principal mission as that of promoting American culture in an international context.
The statement noted that the building would close on Feb. 12 and that funds were available to compensate staff members who would lose their jobs. "This not a plan for the liquidation or termination of the center, but for its continuation in another form," Mr. Henry said, adding that the decision to close the Gehry building was made unanimously at a board meeting here on Tuesday afternoon. "We will convert it from an unsustainable financial drain into a liquid fund."
Mr. Henry, who also heads the New York-based Bohen Foundation, said the American Center faced the same set of problems as many cultural institutions in the United States. "The question is, what are our assets?" he said in an interview. "Are we a building or are we a program? The closure is symptomatic not of a failure to support American culture abroad but of the hard decisions that cultural institutions must take these days."
"It was unfortunately the only reasonable solution," said Ms. Beaud, a contemporary art curator who is the center's first French director. "We tried, we fought, we did everything we could to avoid this. We found money to run most of our programs, but we couldn't run the building. It was very sad, but we had no choice."
Ms. Beaud has been given the job of preparing the center's new program and of finding a buyer for the building. "It's too early to talk about a buyer," she said. "We also don't yet have a price. With the building and everything we have done, we've put in close to $50 million, but any buyer will have to make changes. The original planning permission said the building could only have a cultural use, but we have asked the Paris government to remove the restriction."
With its classical and Cubist facades and its interior gallery and theater spaces, the building was clearly designed as a cultural center. And over the last 18 months, it has slowly found its place in Paris's cultural life with frequent art exhibitions, theater and dance programs, movie festivals and conference series. "We have had almost 150,000 visitors in that time," said Laure Martin, the center's spokeswoman.
Significantly, the board avoided pointing fingers of blame at the center's previous leadership team, headed by Judith Pisar, chairwoman from 1977 to 1994, and Henry Pillsbury, executive director from 1969 to 1994, who were behind the decision to sell the Boulevard Raspail building and invite Mr. Gehry to design the new headquarters.
Neither Mrs. Pisar nor Mr. Pillsbury was willing to comment on today's announcement. In interviews last year, Mrs. Pisar explained that "we wanted the new building to be a cultural statement," while Mr. Pillsbury conceded that fund-raising projections in the late 1980's had proved to be too optimistic.
In a brief statement today, the American Ambassador, Pamela Harriman, said she wished the center well. "The beauty and the genius of Frank Gehry's building will always remain on the Paris landscape as a tribute to American artistic talent and to cultural ties between our two countries," she added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The ultramodern American Center in Paris, designed by Frank Gehry. (Luc Boegly/Archipress)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CENTER (PARIS) AMERICAN CENTER (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CENTER (PARIS) AMERICAN CENTER (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS (FRANCE); UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (91%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%); 

SUBJECT: SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) WORLD WAR II (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); DANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GEHRY, FRANK; RIDING, ALAN FRANK GEHRY (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



639 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Narrower U.S.-Japan Trade Gap Helps Dollar Surge Against Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar surged to its highest level in nearly two years against the Japanese yen yesterday on news of a smaller Japanese trade surplus with the United States and new friction between China and Taiwan.
The dollar also rose against most other leading currencies. Its rise against the German mark was driven by the Bundesbank's decision to let a key interest rate drop significantly. 
 Cresting Treasury bond prices, pushed by weak United States economic data, also helped push the dollar upward.
"The feature of today was yen weakness on the back of the Japanese trade numbers and from the heated political tensions in East Asia," Lisa Finstrom, a currency analyst for Smith Barney, said.
In late New York trading, the dollar bought 106.93 yen, up from 105.84 yen on Tuesday. It last traded close to 107 yen in February 1994. The dollar ended at 1.4836 marks, up from 1.4791 marks on Tuesday.
The Asian news was crucial yesterday, beginning with Japan's announcement that the country's trade surplus with the United States dropped by nearly a fifth last year, the first drop since 1990.
The Finance Ministry said that the surplus with the United States, its biggest trading partner, plummeted 17 percent, while the overall surplus dropped by 11 percent.
"The trade surplus is in a substantial downward trend," Andrew Shipley, an economist with Schroder Securities Japan, said.
The market also reacted to news reports that China was prepared to fire missiles at Taiwan if it continued to seek international recognition. China experts said they did not think China would attack, but that the warnings should be taken seriously. Such anxiety, Ms. Finstrom said, "created selling pressure on the yen."
In Europe, Germany let its two-week securities repurchase rate drop one-tenth of a percentage point, to 3.55 percent, after falling eight-hundredths of a percentage point last week. When the interest rates of a country drop, its assets and currency become less attractive to investors.
The rate drop is a "sign of slowing economic conditions," Ms. Finstrom said, adding, "That's seen as dollar positive."
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday, were: 1.1910 Swiss francs, up from 1.1880; 5.0800 French francs, up from 5.0643, and 1,590 Italian lire, down from 1,594. The British pound fell to $1.5115, from $1.5138 on Tuesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); TAIWAN (94%); CHINA (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; CHINA; TAIWAN; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); TAIWAN (94%); CHINA (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); CURRENCIES (92%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GERMAN MARK (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); BONDS (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 

PERSON: LISA FINSTROM (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



640 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: China Threatens Taiwan

 BODY:
China has made no secret of its concern that Taiwan is drifting toward independence with the tacit support of the United States. Beijing pounced on an unofficial visit to America last year by Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, to register its strong objection to any potential change in Taiwan's status. But China has now escalated tensions by recklessly raising the prospect that it might use military force to intimidate Taiwan. The United States and other countries must make clear that such a step would unravel Beijing's relations with the international community and undermine China's prized economic boom.
Patrick Tyler of The Times reports that Chinese officials have let the Clinton Administration know that Beijing has completed plans for a limited military attack on Taiwan as soon as this spring unless the island bows to demands for a lower-profile foreign policy. 
 These warnings may well be nine-tenths diplomatic bluff. But even so they suggest that Beijing has lost sight of one of the basic understandings underlying improved Chinese-American relations since the Nixon Administration -- that Taiwan's future status must be settled by peaceable means.
Beijing is plainly infuriated by the recent efforts of President Lee to win increased recognition for his country in foreign capitals and international bodies like the United Nations. The mainland Government sees Taiwan as an integral part of the historical Chinese empire, torn away by foreign imperialists and Chiang Kai-shek at a time when China was weak. Taiwanese see it differently, pointing to their centuries of separate cultural development and, more importantly, their hard-won political democracy and thriving capitalist economy as good reasons for standing somewhat apart.
China apparently hopes its warnings will lead Washington to lean on Mr. Lee to accommodate Beijing. While Washington should urge caution on both sides, the United States must vigorously reject military bullying from Beijing in cases like this.
Taiwan is too big to be treated as a mere pawn in relations between Washington and Beijing. It is America's seventh-largest trading partner, with 21 million people, a vibrant democracy and one of Asia's highest living standards.
More than anything else, it is the fear that today's freedoms and prosperity would be lost under Beijing's harsh authoritarian rule that fuels Taiwan's quest for a separate identity. Beijing would do better to address this fear with political and economic reforms at home rather than threatening the use of force across the Taiwan Straits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (99%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (99%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (57%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



641 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Washington may tighten up on reporting of fees by trial lawyers.

BYLINE: Peter Passell 

 BODY:
EVERY interest payment, stock sale and royalty payment these days generates a notice to the Internal Revenue Service. But when a lawyer receives a settlement on behalf of a client and keeps a big part of it as his fee, the I.R.S. learns about the money only if the lawyer includes it on his tax form.
That may be about to change. Congressional Republicans have added a provision to their budget bill to require reporting of the tens of billions of dollars in legal settlements paid each year. But the tale of how trial lawyers have managed to avoid the requirement illuminates the special clout they have long enjoyed in a Washington dominated by Democrats. 
 After Republicans proposed the idea, President Clinton did not include this seemingly innocuous revenue raiser in his own budget. The White House may change its tune. But Representative Bill Archer, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, is not about to let the matter drop. "Your omission," he wrote the President last month, "would appear to indicate a special preference by the White House on behalf of trial lawyers."
Some people forget to report the $30 they got in dividends on, say, 10 shares of Exxon stock Aunt Harriet willed them. But the I.R.S. knows anyway: its computers are combing through computer tapes, matching dividend payments to declarations of taxable income. And Uncle Sam will eventually send out a dunning notice for the tax, plus interest and penalties.
Next to the withholding of taxes on wages, the 1099 reporting form is the Government's handiest weapon in the increasingly computerized war on tax evasion. The requirement has been in force since the 1960's. But the law began to bite only in the 1980's after the I.R.S. began to cross-check hundreds of millions of transactions each year.
Since 1982, reporting of sales of securities has also been required. And by comparison with the reporting of dividends, said Michael J. Graetz of the Yale School of Law, it is a relatively blunt instrument because "the sums reported don't correspond to any line on your tax form."
For all the complexity, though, compliance on capital gains jumped sharply. For while the I.R.S. computers cannot use the figures to pin down unreported taxable income, the electronic trail serves as deterrent to tax evasion.
Payments to lawyers are reported when they are in the form of salaries or consulting fees. That, however, leaves a giant gap for income associated with lawsuits.
Lawyers usually get a third of any settlement -- sometimes more. If the defendant's insurance company settles for $300,000, the money is typically paid by check to the lawyer who, in turn, writes a $200,000 check and keeps $100,000. Or if the case was referred by another lawyer, the $100,000 is divided between them.
A settlement for damages is not taxable income; the money going to the lawyers certainly is. Surely, though, lawyers are diligent tax filers? After all, they are better informed about their legal obligations and more vulnerable to sanction than the average American: conviction for tax evasion usually leads to disbarment.
In fact, tax evasion by lawyers is quite common. Project Esquire, begun by the I.R.S. in 1989, found that roughly 10 percent of lawyers never even filed tax returns -- a higher rate than for the population as a whole.
The dollars involved may be substantial. Lester Brickman of the Cardozo School of Law in New York, notes that a disproportionate number of personal injury lawyers are sole practitioners or in small firms, where tax evasion is easier. And he further points out that referral income -- where the beneficiary is two steps removed from the transaction -- amounts to $3 billion to $4 billion annually. "Taxes evaded probably run from $25 million to $50 million a year," Mr. Brickman said, "and that's conservative."
It is easy to see why Republicans latched on to the idea. After all, hardly anybody likes lawyers, and nobody likes tax cheats. Besides, it would embarrass the plaintiffs' bar, which has bitterly resisted Republican-led efforts to reduce lawsuits along with the fees paid to lawyers.
The more interesting question is why the provision was not part of the President's response to Congressional Republicans. Political influence cannot be counted out, but the trial lawyers' lobby claims no credit. Phil Buchan, an official of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America, said, "we haven't taken a position on it."
Nonetheless, it seems likely that someone in the White House dropped the idea from the Administration's own bill. A senior Treasury official suggested that the disappearance was simply a mistake. Whatever the reason, the Administration will probably not go to the wall for trial lawyers, who soon may be reporting their contingency income just like everybody else.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LEGAL PROFESSION; TAX EVASION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); WAGES AND SALARIES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LAWYERS (92%); TAX LAW (91%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); DIVIDENDS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); TAX WITHHOLDING (71%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; BRICKMAN, LESTER BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



642 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: New Signs of Weakness in Nation's Economy

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Fresh signs of a faltering economy emerged yesterday after the Federal Reserve reported that production at the nation's factories, mines and utilities inched up just one-tenth of 1 percent in December, and the Commerce Department said sales of new homes plunged to a seven-month low in November.
Analysts said the reports underscored the weakness of the economy in the fourth quarter and could help persuade the Fed to cut interest rates again next week to stimulate growth. 
 Stock and bond prices rose after the reports were released. Many traders said the latest evidence of weakness could lead to lower interest rates, which would make their securities more attractive.
"The economy is still in an expansion, but it clearly is slowing down," said David Lereah, an economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association. "I don't think we are in any trouble of recession, but it clearly is slowing and could use a boost."
The gain in industrial production in December was just two-tenths of 1 percent higher than in November. Output had fallen four-tenths of 1 percent in October.
That meant that growth in production slowed to an annual rate of eight-tenths of 1 percent during the fourth quarter, compared with 3.2 percent during the previous three months. For the year, output rose 3.2 percent, little more than half the 5.9 percent growth in 1994.
Sales of new single-family homes fell for the fourth consecutive month in November, down 2.1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 649,000.
The rate was the lowest since 607,000 last April. Sales dropped in all regions except the South. In the Northeast, they plunged to a 13-year low.
"The economy has slowed, the industrial sector has stalled, housing activity is going nowhere, even though mortgage rates are declining, and consumers are worried," said Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch. "The Fed should, and we believe will, ease" interest rates.
The reports, which had been delayed by the partial Government shutdown, were among the last major economic data scheduled before the Federal Open Market Committee begins a two-day meeting next Tuesday.
Many analysts believe it will cut short-term rates by a quarter of a percentage point in an attempt to energize the economy. It last trimmed the Federal funds rate in December, to 5.5 percent from 5.75 percent, the second cut of 1995. The rate is what banks charge each other for overnight loans.
In its report today, the central bank said that the industrial sector was operating at 82.8 percent of capacity in December, down from 83 percent a month earlier and the lowest since 82.6 percent in January 1994.
Analysts monitor the capacity rate for signs of future inflation. Many believe a rate greater than 85 percent could lead to production bottlenecks, shortages and rising prices.
The report showed the anemic growth was due mostly to increased output of cars and light trucks and the end of the Boeing aircraft strike. Excluding cars and trucks, output was unchanged.
Manufacturing output rose a tenth of a percent, including a three-tenths of 1 percent gain in durable goods such as cars and appliances. But nondurable goods output fell two-tenths of a percent, the second consecutive decline.
Mining output also fell for a second consecutive time, down two-tenths of 1 percent. Production of utilities, however, advanced four-tenths of a percent.
The Commerce Department report showed that new-home sales have not improved since they rose 8 percent last July, to a 781,000 annual rate.
Existing-home sales fell 1.7 percent in November and single-family housing starts were flat. Mortgage applications have also leveled off.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Prices of New Homes" tracks median price for new homes (Source: Commerce Department); "New-Home Sales" tracks new private homes sold during month, at seasonally adjusted annual rate (Source: Commerce Department); "Capacity Utilization" tracks total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted (Source: Federal Reserve Board); and "Industrial Production" track index of industrial production, seasonally adjusted (Source: Commerce Department). "Prices of New Homes" and "New-Home Sales" run from June 1994 through November 1995. "Capacity Utilization" and "Industrial Production" run from July 1994 through December 1995. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; HOUSING; SALES; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); BONDS (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); 

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



643 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: 2 Futures Exchanges to Reconsider Joint Efforts

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Responding to pressure from big investment banks and other financial institutions that have become the source of most of their business, the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange vowed again today to try to put aside rivalry to cooperate more closely.
"Everything is on the table, from buying pencils together to merging," said John F. Sandner, chairman of the Merc, who with his counterpart on the Board of Trade, Patrick H. Arbor, announced the creation of a high-level committee to study "joint strategic initiatives." 
 Complaints about the continuing separation of the world's two largest futures exchanges are coming from big brokers and investment firms like Merrill Lynch, which own seats at both of them. These institutions care little for longstanding cultural differences between the two exchanges and want them to cooperate to lower overhead expenses.
The exchanges have been forced to take a closer look at the financial benefits of cooperation by a drop in trading volume last year. After reaching record-high trading levels in 1994, both exchanges saw 1995 volume in crucial products tumble when interest rates were relatively stable.
For the year, volume at the Board of Trade was off 4 percent despite a huge increase in agricultural trading. The Merc, which entered the year privately crowing that it was about to surpass the Board of Trade to become the world's volume leader, suffered a 29 percent drop.
A number of events on the horizon, including a possible balanced Federal budget and the unification of European currencies, suggested that this year's problems might be a sign of tougher times to come. Full seats on the Merc have fallen from a peak price of $925,000 in 1994 to $575,000. The Board of Trade's seat prices had peaked at $710,000 just over a year ago and now cost $610,00.
A full merger was still considered a long shot. The exchanges have long worked together to lobby Washington and have cooperated on some overseas marketing ventures, but merger talks had begun and halted several times since the 1970's. The reasons cited by participants have varied from clashing operating procedures and fee structures, to differing strategies for growth and bruised egos at the top.
The current hurdles to a full merger include the likely reluctance of Merc members to get involved with the Board of Trade's $182 million building expansion, which has been financed by borrowing, unlike a recent Merc expansion.
The most recent disappointment came in 1994 when efforts to merge the clearing operations that settle trades at the two exchanges collapsed after several years of talks. Earlier that year, the Board of Trade abandoned a joint venture with the Merc and Reuters P.L.C. to develop an international electronic trading system called Globex.
The latest effort to overcome the past will have big-name support. H. Merton Miller, a Nobel Prize-winning professor at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business, who has long been involved in the governance of both exchanges, was named executive director of the joint initiatives committee.
Both exchange chairmen are expected to serve on the committee, along with David J. Fisher, a vice chairman at the Board of Trade and Leo Melamed and John T. Geldermann, both former chairmen of the Merc. The committee also includes top executives from the trading arms of Merrill Lynch, Mitsubishi, Dean Witter Reynolds and Morgan Stanley. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (95%); TRI (TSX) (60%); TRI (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (95%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (60%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE; CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE CME GROUP INC (95%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (60%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE; CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FUTURES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (77%); CURRENCIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); AGRICULTURE (51%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



644 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: The State of the Worker

BYLINE: By Thomas Geoghegan; Thomas Geoghegan, author of "Which Side Are You On?," is a labor lawyer.

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
The first duty of the State, President Clinton seemed to say on Tuesday night, is to open up in the morning. After Woodrow Wilson's 14 Points and Franklin Roosevelt's Four Freedoms, we have come down to this: "Let's just open up!"
I thought, with deep shame, is that all I'm cheering for? Certainly I am on the side of the Age of Possibility, when, heaven knows, anything is possible, when even the Government may close. 
 In his State of the Union Message, Mr. Clinton offered a sentence or two about America's falling wages and standard of living. He referred to his plans for job training vouchers, and he talked briefly about the minimum wage, which he is proposing to raise very modestly. But mostly he spoke about moral values and how we treat our children.
In some future State of the Union, may one of these children stand up and deliver a curse on Congress, the White House and the elites, and even you and me. And we will deserve it. Because there is growing evidence that millions of our children will not have a decent future, a chance to support themselves with a single job.
I have just been reading a study conducted last year about job trends in the Chicago area as part of the MacArthur Foundation's Working Poor Project. The researchers concluded that between now and 2005, an estimated 140,000 jobs will become available. Only about 25 percent of these will require a college degree, and another 25 percent will require a community college education. About half the jobs will be open to those with only a high school education. But of that half, none is projected to pay enough to cover even a minimal budget for an adult and two kids -- what is known as a living wage, about $23,000 a year.
The researchers noted that there will be stiff competition for these jobs: say, 1 job per 27 families for technicians, or 1 job per 138 families for machine setters. It will be a war of all against all for upscale poverty wages.
And what will people think in the future about the debate on the budget deficit that paralyzes us today? Of all developed countries, the United States actually has one of the lowest deficits. Mr. Clinton cut it from 4.5 percent of gross domestic product to about 2.5 percent. As Europeans joke, ours is one of the few countries that meets the Maastricht Treaty goals for entry into a single European currency.
Yet next month, the Government may be about to default, throw away our credit, over nothing. Because we have a Congress and a President who arbitrarily decided to wrench down the deficit to zero in seven years. It came to Newt Gingrich apparently in a dream.
Both parties have signed off on deficit-cutting projections that show an increase in unemployment. Just as frightening is the risk of a strong dollar, which is one possible result from a zero deficit. This would mean our goods would become more expensive abroad, encouraging a whole new wave of downsizing and wage cutting. We may look back on the recent AT&T layoffs as occurring in a golden age.
It is hard to see a necessary connection between a balanced budget and rising wages, though a few Republicans try to make this argument. Perhaps they suppose the payoff will be a huge rise in corporate profits. But we have that now. Or a burst in productivity. Suppose there was. There is no guarantee that any of this will budge the hourly wage up one cent.
It is almost harder to believe that Steve Forbes and his big business supporters really want to cut aid to the poor. Much of what we call welfare -- food stamps, the earned income tax credit, housing subsidies -- is really a disguised gift to business. We give the working poor enough calories to keep going so they don't have to ask for more money from the Boss.
The Clinton Administration says that its proposals on worker retraining and education can halt the steady drop in our standard of living. Well, hardly anyone is really against job training. How may Op-Ed articles in favor of training have we all read? Let the workers train and train, like an army without rifles.
Yet without a wage policy, job training can make matters worse. There is a finite number of high-wage jobs in an economy where people everywhere work for $4.25 an hour.
Of the 20 types of jobs that are likeliest to grow, most require few or no skills. Indeed, we seem to have too many college B.A.'s in the job market now. As a study by the Bureau of Labor Statistics pointed out, one out of five college graduates is already in a job that did not require the degree. If we somehow manage to increase that ratio to one out of three, it is not clear how much good it would do. So 300 families instead of 30 or 40 can chase every single "living wage" job?
Those of us with good jobs should probably just be grateful to the kids who did not go beyond high school. Perhaps it is time we erected a monument to the working poor, who sacrificed their own living standards for ours.
Ihave never understood the attraction of President Clinton's rather mean welfare-to-workfare proposals. He must realize that working Americans would actually be better off if more of us were on welfare. At least the job market wouldn't be flooded with more people.
There is growing evidence that some Americans are beginning to grasp this. A New York Times story last week quoted a New Hampshire woman who got tired of Phil Gramm shouting about how people in prison should be made to work "six days a week." "In order to get a job, an American is going to have to go commit a crime?" she called out in reply.
A decent minimum wage, collective bargaining and unions are all elements of a wage policy the Democrats lack. You may not like the concept of a "wage policy," but at least there is a logical chain of reasoning that leads to jobs that pay a salary people can live on. New Democrats shrink from it. Old Democrats yearn for the Great Society. Both lack the stomach to re-enact a version of the New Deal, which would have to precede, logically and historically, an affluent United States.
It is also said that the United States does not want Europe's problems. But why not? I'd take them over ours. Even if the Germans have higher unemployment, at least they do not have our horrific poverty, for both workers and nonworkers. And our 5.7 percent jobless rate does not include high school kids who are out pounding the streets for jobs. It certainly does not take into account the millions out there searching for second jobs. It doesn't count the nearly 2 percent of our able-bodied male work force sitting in prison. The fact is the bottom half of any European work force is simply better off than the bottom half of ours.
At least the Germans propose rational solutions. For example, the German unions have just offered wage restraint in return for an employer commitment to increase jobs. By "jobs," I mean "living wage" jobs, though many Americans would not remember what those are. One cannot imagine a dialogue like that here. Who would conduct it? Mr. Clinton? The debate about the state of our union exists on a plane of fantasy I would hate to see on the Internet.
There is no "V" chip that will zap us out of working poverty. But there is something the Clinton Administration can do: raise the minimum wage from $4.25 an hour to $7 or more, not just to $5.15 as the President proposes. (That just makes up for half the loss during the Reagan era.) Not all at once, but slowly: phased in over, shall we say, seven years? And this would have a substantial upward effect on wage levels higher than that.
It is fine for New Democrats to talk about moral values, but they should first meet their moral obligations as Old Democrats and push for higher wages.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY (88%); BUDGETS (87%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LIVING WAGE (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); MINIMUM WAGE (75%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (75%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (69%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); 

PERSON: GEOGHEGAN, THOMAS BILL CLINTON (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



645 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Jump to Yet Another High, Led by Technology Issues

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Stocks jumped broadly yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average setting another new record. Technology shares were stars of the market.
The Dow climbed 50.57 points, to 5,242.84, surpassing the previous high of 5,219.36, set on Monday. "Almost half of today's gain came from program trading in the morning," said Jeffrey Rubin, an analyst for Birinyi Associates. 
 United Technologies and Du Pont, two components of the 30-blue-chip average, showed unexpectedly strong increases after reporting higher earnings during the day that exceeded expectations. United Technologies advanced 3 1/8, to 97 3/8, and Du Pont rose 2 1/8, to 74 1/8.
Other major market indicators showed even larger percentage gains. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 7.17 points, or 1.17 percent, to 619.96. And the Nasdaq composite index jumped 15.42 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,043.46.
Advancing issues outnumbered declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange by 1,483 to 900. Volume climbed to 476.4 million shares from 416.9 million shares on Tuesday.
"The main influence was that mutual funds have been coming into the stock market with a huge influx of money," said Ricky Harrington, senior vice president of Interstate/ Johnson Lane. "And nothing happened in the last 24 hours to prevent this money from being put to work."
The stock market was also buttressed by signs of conciliation on the budget deadlock in Washington and lower bond yields. When rates decline, consumer and corporate borrowing costs are reduced and economic growth is stimulated. The 30-year Treasury bond jumped 25/32 of a percentage point; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.03 percent, from 6.09 percent on Tuesday.
The surge in technology stocks was led by I.B.M., which has rallied since reporting better-than-expected earnings last Thursday. I.B.M. increased 4, to 107; Micron Technology advanced 5, to 37; Hewlett-Packard added 3 1/2, to 84, and Intel rose 2 1/16, to 54 3/4. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index surged 11.78 points, to 191.22.
Drug issues also finished in positive territory, as traders continued to turn to large-capitalization stocks. Johnson & Johnson, which reported a 23 percent gain in fourth-quarter profit, closed at 93 3/4, up 6; Pfizer ended at 63 3/4, up 3, and Merck finished at 67 7/8, up 1.
Helene Curtis, which surged 8 1/4 on Tuesday, picked up 12 3/4 more yesterday to close at 65 7/8 after saying that it was engaged in talks about a "possible business combination." First Interstate, which agreed to be acquired by Wells Fargo, gained 2 1/4, to 149 1/4. Wells Fargo also gained, closing at 229 1/2, up 1. Even First Bank System, which had been spurned by First Interstate, gained 1 1/2, to 51 3/4.
On the down side, Xerox tumbled 15, to 126 5/8, after the announcement of its fourth-quarter net income, which was below analysts' estimates. Cincinnati Bell slumped 1 5/8, to 33, after AT&T asked to renegotiate certain contracts. AT&T advanced 3/8, to 65 1/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (62%); WFC (NYSE) (60%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MU (NASDAQ) (57%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (62%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) JOHNSON & JOHNSON (62%); WELLS FARGO & CO (60%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (54%); PFIZER INC (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); CORPORATE BONDS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (51%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



646 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
Death in Deli And Worries Over Lottery

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
IT was a few days after the violent robbery that had killed Abdul Kareem Alsahybi in his Brooklyn delicatessen. The store was closed, bags filled with bullet-riddled cigarette packs and other evidence clogged the aisle, and Mr. Alsahybi's blood still stained the floor.
But the lottery machine, destroyed in the shootout on Friday night, had already been replaced and was ready for the store to reopen. The shiny new computer terminal blinked its incongruously optimistic message -- "Play here! The lottery jackpot is $10 million!" -- as the murdered man's brother mopped the floor with ammonia and his oldest son greeted grieving friends. 
 Mr. Alsahybi's oldest son, Ali, a slight man of 23, seemed to be trying to understand his loss. He was also wrestling with the troubling notion that the gambling machine that had helped bring the family its livelihood may also have brought it tragedy.
Mr. Alsahybi, who was 48 and emigrated from Yemen 24 years ago, had opened his store four years ago at 493 Henry Street, a residential block on the border of Carroll Gardens and Cobble Hill. Just around the corner, there are statues of the Virgin Mary on many a lawn, and red ribbons left over from Christmas decorate the trees. Violent crime is not associated with this quiet corner of Brooklyn.
But the two men who entered just before 11 P.M. each had a gun. So did Mr. Alsahybi, who may have wounded one assailant. Now, he is dead, leaving behind his wife and seven children who joined him here five years ago.
THERE is no way to know if the shootout was related to the lure of lottery proceeds; small stores that are open late are favorite targets of crime no matter what they sell, and the suspects, whom the police describe as two men in their 20's, remain at large. But officers in the station house of the nearby 76th Precinct strongly suspect a link to the lottery.
"It's the only thing that distinguished it," said a detective who requested anonymity. Neighboring store owners agree, noting that the lottery traffic on Fridays is heavy because Fridays are "Pick Five" days.
Maybe it was the gambling, said Ali Alsahybi, an economics major at Brooklyn College. But standing in the closed store four days after his father's death, he could not imagine the idea of dropping the lottery. He is a young man who finds himself suddenly forced to face some grim realities. One reality is that he has to drop out of school to run the store so he can support his family.
His other reality is that he could not give up selling those state-sponsored tickets and games at the Cobble Hill Deli and Grocery, even if he wanted to. He couldn't afford it. "Without Lotto, maybe nobody will buy our stuff," he said. "The Lotto, it makes people buy food, ice cream."
IT does more than that. The gaming passion of New Yorkers who play out their dreams of instant wealth at lottery counters keeps stores like Mr. Alsahybi's going. Most earn more from gambling than they do from selling newspapers or M & M's. Lottery vendors -- there are 4,557 of them in the city -- make 6 percent on sales, which range from $1,000 a day to twice that, say owners of small stores, depending on the size of the lottery jackpot.
That can make lottery vendors vulnerable. The Police Department says that stores that sell lottery tickets do not suffer from higher crime and that, in fact, those in busy areas are unusually safe because they attract so much traffic. But that theory has its skeptics. Last November, for instance, a retired city correction officer was killed during a robbery attempt in an East Flatbush bar; patrons blamed the advent of Quick Draw keno.
So some storekeepers are not taking any chances. "In poor economic areas, they have bulletproof Plexiglas," said the detective in the station house. "But none of the stores on this side of the highway do," he added, referring to the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. "That wouldn't go around here. All around here, it's gentrified yuppies."
It is also an area that feels safe. "You think nothing will happen -- it's all families," said Fisal Shamakh, who runs the Cobble Hill Variety and Grocery on Court Street, a few blocks from Mr. Alsahybi's delicatessen. He sells lottery tickets, too. Mr. Shamakh, who saidhe has not been robbed, tries to get to the bank often so he does not have much cash around. He does not stay open late, either. But he is on a busy street. The Alsahybis' store is not.
Ali Alsahybi is in too much turmoil to decide now how he is going to run the deli, whether he will keep shorter hours or install more security. He will, he said, do what he has to do to support his family. They are all in school, except for the youngest; he is only 4. "If I don't take care of them," he asked, "who will?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN COLLEGE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; LOTTERIES; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS LOTTERIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); MURDER (78%); GAMING (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); CHRISTMAS (65%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; ALSAHYBI, ABDUL KAREEN ABDUL KAREEM ALSAHYBI (92%); ALI ALSAHYBI (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



647 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: What Is an Apple Worth?;
Ailing Innovator's Luster as an Acquisition Dims

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS 

 BODY:
The board of Apple Computer Inc. met for a second consecutive day yesterday to try to devise a rescue plan for the fabled Silicon Valley company, which is leaking money, market share, talent and industry support at an alarming rate.
Despite persistent reports of an impending deal in which Sun Microsystems Inc. would acquire Apple, some executives familiar with recent talks between the two companies said that the two sides remained far apart on the question of price; at least one person said the talks broke off yesterday. With neither company willing to comment, the situation remained unclear.
But for many analysts, one thing was more certain: Despite the most alluring prospect of a possible Sun and Apple alliance -- the creation of a single, dominant Internet computer company -- Apple's problems may have become so great that any potential acquirer, Sun included, would be buying a multibillion-dollar headache.
"Whether they stand alone or are acquired, Apple as we know it is cooked," said Stan Dolberg, senior software analyst at Forrester Research Inc. of Cambridge, Mass. "It's so classic. It's so sad."
Blaming plunging prices in the intensely competitive market for personal computers, the company last week reported a $69 million loss for its most recent quarter and said it would cut 1,300 jobs. Even before that, executives at several computer and software companies said yesterday, they had been receiving an unusually large number of resumes recently from Apple employees, including high-level engineers and key executives.
"Their chief assets are walking out the door," said an analyst at a New York investment company who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Some analysts, trying to make sense of the takeover rumors, said that Apple may have been leaking word of its discussions with Sun in an effort to stimulate interest among other possible suitors and give a lift to the company's skidding share price. Apple stock ended yesterday at $32.25, up 62.5 cents in Nasdaq trading on volume of more than 5.8 million shares; it set a 52-week low of $29.25 on Monday, just seven months after setting a high of $50.125. Sun's shares also closed lower yesterday, down 62.5 cents to $43.50 on even heavier trading -- nearly 12.5 million shares.
Even if Apple were willing to sell out to Sun or another suitor at bargain-basement prices, "the brain drain will have been so fantastically damaging that you have to wonder why they would want the company," Mr. Dolberg said.
Yet some industry executives note that Apple -- whose Macintosh computers are almost universally revered by the estimated 14 million people who use them -- has many valuable assets that might catch the eye of Sun, I.B.M., Oracle, Sony, Motorola and other companies said to have looked at Apple in recent years.
"I can understand why Sun might be interested in Apple," Roger McNamee, a principal with Integral Capital Partners, investment capital and management firm in Menlo Park, Calif., said. "It has lots of assets, particularly in the area of the Internet. The Mac is easiest Internet access platform out there. It is the preferred platform for Internet software development. It has been surprisingly successful with its new line of Internet servers. It's got to be appealing to Sun."
According to figures compiled by Internet service providers, Sun dominates the market for the powerful computers known as Internet servers, which are generally based on the Unix software operating system. But Apple has emerged as the most popular maker of non-Unix Internet servers -- ahead of other makes of machines using the Microsoft Corporation's Windows software. That is a surprising succcess given Apple's relatively low overall market share in PC's, estimated at less than 10 percent.
Part of Apple's appeal to Internet developers is its array of Macintosh software development tools for the Internet's World Wide Web, which allow even casual computer users to create and maintain Web pages. And part of the ease of use of these tools arises from the simplicity of the Apple Macintosh operating system.
Sun and other companies, including the Oracle Corporation, have expressed an interest in creating low-cost computers designed expressly for connecting users to the Internet. Besides the Macintosh, Apple is said to have several technologies under development that could fill that bill.
Other obvious assets, analysts said, include a revenue stream of more than $10 billion a year; more than 14 million loyal customers around the world; a globally recognized brand, and a series of intriguing hardware and software prototypes that, if allowed to develop, may turn into important products.
For Sun, other analysts said, Apple's greatest strength may be that it is not Microsoft. Sun now derives most of its revenue from hardware but has in recent months gambled heavily on software, including Internet server software and an Internet programming language called Java. Microsoft intends to challenge Sun's software with its own products, especially Windows NT.
And in the PC arena, Apple is the best, if not last, hope for challenging the industry standard now dominated by Microsoft and the Intel Corporation. Sun has struggled to appeal to an audience broader than the scientific, engineering and commercial markets where it is strong. But its attempts to reach the consumer market with its own computers have been unsuccessful.
And, according to one big Apple investor, a potential buyer may be able to convince itself that Apple's difficulties arise from poor management rather than incurable, maybe fatal flaws.
"Apple's problems appear to be largely self-inflicted," said the investor, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "There are no signs that Apple's current problems relate to Microsoft Windows. Indeed, there are ample signs of mismanagement. They have been too slow to update products, and they have done a horrible job of forecasting demand. They have nobody to blame but themselves."
"Sun might be interested," he continued, "only if they concluded that a different style of management can produce very different results."
But others questioned whether Sun had what it takes to manage Apple, a company more than twice its size in terms of revenue and employees.
"Apple has some serious production and logistical problems, and questionable economic viability,' said J. William Gurley, an analyst at CS First Boston in New York. "They need -- either through hiring someone or someone buying them -- help with procurement, forecasting, production and distribution, and that's not what Sun is all about."
While Apple makes many of the machines it sells, Sun subcontracts the production of its own computers. And the main microprocessor that Sun uses in its machines, called Sparc, is incompatible with the Power PC chip that Apple uses in its computers.
With such basic incompatibilities, said Tom Copeland, director of workstation research at the International Data Corporation in Framingham, Mass., even if Apple were interested in being acquired, Sun might not be the best partner.
"This would be a fairly strange marriage," Mr. Copeland said. "The fundamental business issues are hard to reconcile. Apple is a retail company aimed at consumers, which is a different business model from a work-station company that sells through specialized resellers. They have different business models, different gross margins, different technologies."
Mr. Gurley of First Boston is another of the many analysts unconvinced of the wisdom of Sun buying Apple at anything close to its current stock-market price.
"You can see what the market thought of Sun acquiring Apple when the stock fell four and a half points Tuesday and was down again today," he said, referring to Sun's shares. "And the joke going around is that the reason I.B.M. was up four points today is because everyone is happy it's not them buying Apple."


GRAPHIC: Though it is losing money, Apple, the world's no. 2 personal computer maker, has strengths with appeal for potential suitors.
 
CUSTOMERS
Chart: "Parts Greater Than Its Sum?"
 Apple has a loyal customer base of 14 million users. It dominates the desktop publishing and graphic arts markets and is a leader in educational computing.
 
OPERATING SYSTEM
 The software that runs Macintoshes and Powerbooks remains the standard for ease of use. Microsoft continues to play catchup.
 
INTERNET
 Experts say Apple has the best tools for creating pages on the World Wide Web. And it dominates the low end of the market for servers, the computers that link the Internet together.
 
NEW PRODUCTS
 Analysts praise Apple's new Pippin multimedia entertainment device and its wireless computing and communications systems, including the latest version of the Newton handheld computer. (pg. D1)
 
 
Graph: "Comparing the Potential Partners" tracks sales and net income for Apple Computer and Sun Microsystems from 1985 through a projected 1996. (Source: Company reports) (pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (69%); MSI (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (72%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (69%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: APPLE COMPUTER INC; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); ORACLE SYSTEMS CORP; SONY CORP; MOTOROLA CORP ORACLE AMERICA INC (72%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (69%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); ORACLE SYSTEMS CORP; SONY CORP; MOTOROLA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); NETWORK SERVERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (70%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



648 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Telecom Bill May Sidestep Sticking Point

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24

 BODY:
Hoping to unsnag a bill to overhaul communications laws, senior Republican senators are discussing proposals to modify a controversial provision for television broadcasters and take it up in a separate bill at some point in the future.
At issue is a provision that would reserve a valuable parcel of the nation's airwaves for advanced digital television services like high-definition television. 
 Critics of the provision, including Bob Dole, the Senate majority leader, have said it amounts to a multibillion-dollar "giveaway" to broadcasters.
Government economists have estimated that the licenses would be worth up to $70 billion if they were auctioned off to the highest bidder.
The bill has passed both the House and the Senate but has been under fire by Senator Dole as well as some House Republicans who complained that it was too regulatory.
Many lawmakers do not want to pick a huge fight with the broadcasting industry, which has already announced plans to begin a big public relations offensive on the issue.
Senator Larry Pressler, Republican of South Dakota, chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, said he thought the issues raised by Senator Dole could be best addressed in a separate bill.
"I envision doing some sort of grand spectrum bill that would address plans for the next 15 years," Mr. Pressler said in an interview. Senator Pressler said the communications bill did not currently provide broadcasters with a "giveaway" as Senator Dole has charged, but Mr. Pressler has himself favored the idea of auctioning off the television frequencies rather than reserving them exclusively for broadcasters at no charge.
Several senior Republican staff members said that lawmakers had discussed dealing with the issue in a separate bill, which amounts to deferring any action on the digital television issues and would probably strengthen the ability of broadcasters to make their case to individual lawmakers.
One Congressional aide said the idea was supported by Senator Trent Lott, the majority whip, who has been a strong supporter of the broadcasting industry thus far and has received a sympathetic hearing from top aides to Senator Dole.
But others aides said that lawmakers had reached no decision. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF SOUTH DAKOTA (84%); SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF SOUTH DAKOTA (84%); SENATE COMMERCE COMMITTEE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); 

PERSON: DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN) TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



649 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Bear, Stearns Signs Deal For Valuable Midtown Site

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

 BODY:
In a move that experts say could signal a comeback for New York's commercial real estate market, some of the city's best-known business leaders appear headed for a battle over the right to acquire a prime site in midtown.
Officials at Bear, Stearns & Company said they had signed a contract with CS First Boston A.G. that could lead to the purchase of an entire block of property at 383 Madison Avenue, between 46th and 47th Streets. Although Bear, Stearns officials would not say what the property would be used for, real estate executives in the city said the investment banking firm had been looking for a site for a new world headquarters. 
 But if Bear, Stearns goes forward with the deal, it could lead to a confrontation pitting the company's powerful chairman, Alan C. Greenberg, and Fred Wilpon, the owner of the New York Mets baseball team and a Bear, Stearns board member, against the British developer Howard Ronson.
The current owners of the property, a partnership that includes First Boston and a group of Saudi investors, had struck an earlier agreement to sell the site to Mr. Ronson for about $55 million, according to real estate executives. Mr. Ronson, who has spent the last two years trying to secure tenants for a 26-story, 800,000-square-foot tower he wants to build on the site, told The New York Observer that the First Boston group was trying to renege on an agreement that would give him more time to exercise his option to buy the property. Mr. Ronson, The Observer reported, is threatening legal action.
Mr. Ronson, who built several Manhattan office buildings during the 1980's but fell on hard times when the market collapsed at the start of the decade, did not return telephone calls to his New York office yesterday.
First Boston officials also declined to comment.
At Bear, Stearns, Mr. Greenberg referred telephone inquiries to a spokeswoman, Mary Flounders, who said, "We've entered into a contract, which is subject to a confidentiality agreement." Ms. Flounders would not say if the contract with First Boston was simply to discuss a purchase or was an actual purchase agreement.
She also would not comment on whether officials of Bear, Stearns, which has its headquarters at 245 Park Avenue, one block from the First Boston site, were searching to replace their current home when the lease expires in four years.
However, real estate professionals in the city said it was common knowledge that the firm was looking for a new location. "Everybody knows that Bear, Stearns's lease is coming up," said James D. Kuhn, president of Newmark & Company, a Manhattan real estate firm.
Mr. Wilpon, a developer who real estate executives said was in charge of Bear, Stearns's relocation plan, did not return telephone calls seeking comment.
Real estate experts said the dispute over the Madison Avenue site could portend a reversal for the real estate business in midtown, where no big office building projects have been started since the market collapsed.
"What's encouraging is that there is the possibility of a major organization building at that site, which would be a vote of confidence in midtown Manhattan," Richard T. Anderson, president of the New York Building Congress, a coalition of design, construction and real estate professionals, said. "The building industry considers that site to be one of the most strategically located in the city."
John S. Dyson, the city's deputy mayor for finance and economic development, said that Mr. Ronson "has approached us about what we would do to encourage a new building on the site." Likewise, Mr. Dyson said, the city has held discussions with Bear, Stearns officials about their possible relocation plans. "Who the developer is doesn't matter to me or the Mayor," Mr. Dyson said.
Bear, Stearns is considering a number of options, and "I just want to keep them in New York," he said.
For about 10 years, the building on the site has been empty, after a plan by the First Boston group to build a 74-story office tower met community opposition.

GRAPHIC: Map shows location of 383 Madison Avenue, Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS & CO; CS FIRST BOSTON GROUP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (72%); BGC PARTNERS INC (50%); NEW YORK METS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEAR STEARNS & CO; CS FIRST BOSTON GROUP NEW YORK METS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MANHATTAN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BASEBALL (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (71%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT ALAN C GREENBERG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



650 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Surge On New Hope Of a Rate Cut

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities rebounded sharply yesterday as more evidence of a weak economy heightened expectations of another interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve, and a stronger dollar brought buyers back into the market.
Traders said the dollar's rise stemmed from a threat by the Chinese Government that it was prepared to fire missiles at Taiwan if Taiwan continued to seek international recognition. A stronger dollar makes Treasury securities and other United States investments more attractive to foreign investors because of the profits that can be made through currency appreciation. 
 The 30-year Treasury issue was up 25/32, to a price of 111 17/32; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.03 percent, from 6.09 percent on Tuesday.
Late yesterday afternoon, as the bond market was closing, Moody's Investors Service said it was considering lowering its rating for $387 billion in Treasury securities. The credit-rating agency cited its fear that the Government would fail to raise the national debt limit by the end of February and could delay payments to investors.
Analysts said the announcement was clearly an effort to force the White House and Republican leaders in Congress to resolve their differences. The warning itself, they said, could force down the price of specific bonds named by the agency. And it would signal that the United States might soon have to pay more to investors to borrow money.
During yesterday's trading, though, the bond market focused more on the release of a disappointing report by the Fed on industrial production and capacity utilization in December. Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities, said: "The economic statistics released today clearly indicated some sluggishness in U.S. economic growth. Industrial production rose only one-tenth of a percent in December, noticeably below the market's consensus expectation of three-tenths of 1 percent."
Had it not been for an rise in aircraft production resulting from the return of striking workers at the Boeing Company last month, Mr. Fine noted, industrial production would have been flat.
"This lackluster production performance led to a two-tenths of 1 percent decline in capacity utilization to a level of 82.8 percent," he said, "continuing the decline in utilization rates seen since the beginning of the year, and the first time since January 1994 that capacity utilization has been below 83 percent."
Mr. Fine said that capacity utilization had usually been a reasonably accurate guide to inflation pressures, and that even though this relationship might have changed recently, "it's certainly true that if the 85 percent utilization level seen a year ago did not engender an increase in the trend rate of inflation, then 82.8 percent capacity utilization is not likely to either."
Separately, the Commerce Department released figures yesterday for new-home sales in November, which Mr. Fine characterized as suggesting less buoyancy in the housing market. "Though these were November statistics and thus somewhat outdated," he said, "anecdotal evidence, to say nothing of the weather, does not lead one to believe that housing has picked up.
"All of these statistics, of course, continue to point to further Fed easing," Mr. Fine added. "Now we can all sit around and argue as to precisely when the Federal Open Market Committee will make its move." The committee, the Fed's policy-making arm, meets on Jan. 30.
John Burgess, managing director at Bankers Trust Investment Management, said that the market was given an overnight lift with buying driven by the disclosure of the Chinese threat against Taiwan, whichcaused the dollar to jump higher.
Mr. Burgess said the market was also aided by the weak home sales and industrial-production data and conciliatory remarks by Republicans following President Clinton's State of the Union message Tuesday night. Some Republicans noted that the President was gaining more public support, and that they needed to soften their tone in remarks about the budget impasse.
The next significant reports for the market should be December retail data -- which may be better than the anecdotal numbers the market relied on during the Government's partial shutdown -- and the nation's payroll numbers, which should provide a glimpse of January activity.
Traders said the yield at yesterday's five-year auction rose to more than the anticipated 5.317 percent, to 5.360 percent. It was the lowest yield since 5.10 percent a year ago, and lower than the 5.550 percent at last month's auction.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new five-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 5.360%
Low Yield . . . 5.260%
Median Yield . . . 5.304%
Accepted at low price . . . 35%
Total applied for . . . $26,689,113
Accepted . . . $12,005,113
Noncompetitive . . . $341,000
Interest set at . . . 5.25%
 
The five-year notes mature on Jan. 31, 2001.
 
"Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since October. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (83%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); AIRCRAFT MFG (64%); STRIKES (64%); 

PERSON: DONALD FINE (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



651 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Moody's Warns It Might Cut Ratings on Treasury Issues
Moody's Investors Service, a leading credit-rating agency, warned as the bond market was closing that it was considering lowering its ratings for $387 billion in Treasury securities because it feared that Washington's budget deadlock could lead the Government to run out of money by the end of next month.
Wall Street executives said the move was clearly an effort to force the White House and Republican Congressional leaders to resolve their differences. [Page A17.]
 
Congressional Republicans offered to abandon the national debt as a weapon if President Clinton would support modest budget and tax cuts as a "down payment" on a balanced budget. Mr. Clinton welcomed the offer. [A1.]
 
Iraqi Talks Could Cut Oil Prices
Iraq's willingness to hold talks with the United Nations about selling $2 billion of oil to buy food and medicine could bring a sustained drop in oil prices, analysts said. Iraqi sales have been barred for five years. [A1.]
 
Dow Sets Another Record
Stocks jumped broadly, with the Dow average climbing 50.57 points, to 5,242.84, a record. United Technologies and DuPont rose on higher earnings, and technology shares also shone. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to 6.03 percent. [D10.]
 
Orange County Settles With S.E.C.
S.E.C. charges of securities fraud were settled by the government, board of supervisors and two former top officials of bankrupt Orange County, Calif. [D4.]
 
G.O.P. Seeks Taxes From Lawyers
Congressional Republicans have their eyes on lawyers -- that is, on making sure the I.R.S. knows about the tens of billions of dollars in legal settlements paid each year, a third of which typically goes to lawyers. Some may hide it. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
New Signs of Economic Weakness
Production at the nation's factories, mines and utilities inched up just 0.1 percent in December. Sales of new homes plunged to a seven-month low in November. [D4.]
 
Bankers Trust Settles Case
Bankers Trust agreed to pay $67 million to Air Products and Chemicals to settle a dispute over money-losing derivatives contracts. Experts said it pointed toward a new, conciliatory attitude at the bank. [D8.]
 
Bear, Stearns in Property Deal
Bear, Stearns signed a contract with CS First Boston that could lead to the purchase of an entire block at 383 Madison Avenue, between 46th and 47th Streets. Experts say the deal could signal a comeback in New York's commercial real estate. [D4.]
 
Donaldson and Brown Profits Up
Both Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and Alex. Brown reported earnings gains of more than 50 percent. Underwriting was strong. [D4.]
 
Johnson & Johnson reported a 23 percent profit rise, more than expected, sending its shares up $5.875 to $93.625. [D5.]
 
Xerox Results Send Stock Down
Xerox reported a $1.1 billion net loss, after a $1.5 billion charge for the sale of an insurance unit and other items. Operating profit of $379 million, was weaker than expected, and Xerox's shares fell 10.6 percent. [D5.]
 
Pan Am to Fly -- Phoenix-Like?
Pan Am, the airline pioneer, is about to the reincarnated. Martin R. Shugrue, the former trustee of defunct Eastern Airlines, and Charles Cobb, a former Ambassador to Iceland and Under Secretary of Commerce, who bought the Pan Am trademark in 1993 for $1.3 million, reportedly hope to reintroduce Pan Am. [D5.]
 
American Express turns to Y.& R.
American Express awarded advertising assignments for its financial services businesses to Young & Rubicam. Billings were estimated at $10 million to $40 million. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D8.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,242.84, up 50.57
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
 30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.03%, down 0.06
 The Dollar -- 106.93 yen, up 1.09
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Coca Cola
 4th-quarter earnings due early in the day.
 Expected: 52 cents a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); APD (NYSE) (63%); JNJ (NYSE) (60%); UTX (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (63%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); AIR PRODUCTS & CHEMICALS INC (63%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (50%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BONDS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); CHEMICALS (87%); LAWYERS (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NEW HOME SALES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



652 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Imperial Congress Threatens Health of Union;
Flat-Tax Switch

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re Patrick J. Buchanan's attack on the flat tax (Op-Ed, Jan. 17): Citing the examples of Microsoft's Bill Gates and Palm Beach "lounge lizards," Mr. Buchanan asserts that investment income is not taxed under the plan offered by Steve Forbes, the Republican Presidential candidate. This is false. 
 Taxes on interest and dividend income are withheld and paid at the business level under the flat tax. Even the chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers has stated that this approach is the most ironclad way of collecting taxes from the rich in a system that does not double-tax investment income.
Mr. Buchanan asserts that estate taxes should be maintained for the "super-rich." He noted last year that eliminating double taxation -- including the estate tax and capital gains tax -- "would make the United States the most attractive investment harbor on earth."
Mr. Buchanan also frets that "the Federal budget would be thrown scores of billions of dollars deeper into deficit" under the Forbes flat tax. The candidate who claims to be the true conservative asserts that tax relief should be held hostage to some future hope that big spenders will control their appetites. Even though he worked for Ronald Reagan, Mr. Buchanan seems to have forgotten that it's not the Government's money.
A year and a half ago, Mr. Buchanan endorsed a system that taxed all income but taxed it only once, and at a single, low rate. He challenged Republican leaders to endorse this proposal, asking whether the party "any longer believes deeply enough in the principles of lower taxes and less government to confront Leviathan."
Who would have thought, 18 months later, that the Republican Party would say yes and Mr. Buchanan no?
 
DANIEL J. MITCHELL
Senior Fellow, Heritage Foundation
Washington, Jan. 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FLAT TAX; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HOSTAGE TAKING (66%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, DANIEL J; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL GATES (72%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



653 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Imperial Congress Threatens Health of Union

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Flat Tax Won't Make Us a Nation of Savers" (letter, Jan. 21): 
 David Rockefeller proposes a national value-added tax that will "reward savings and stimulate growth in productivity" by balancing "the imperative to save with the compulsion to spend."
The low savings rate he deplores is caused in part by the movement of funds out of low-interest savings account into stock markets.
Middle- and upper-class beneficiaries of a sales tax system will not move back into savings accounts unless interest rates on deposits are increased, but this would drive up the costs of borrowing, slowing down the economic growth Mr. Rockefeller seeks.
 
FREDERICK C. THAYER
Visiting Prof., George Washington U.
Washington, Jan. 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FLAT TAX; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VALUE ADDED TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); SALES TAX (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (56%); 

PERSON: ROCKEFELLER, DAVID; THAYER, FREDERICK C (PROF) DAVID ROCKEFELLER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1996



654 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Twilight of the Monarchs

BYLINE: By Homero Aridjis and Lincoln P. Brower; Homero Aridjis is president of the Group of 100, a Mexican environmental organization. Lincoln P. Brower is a professor of zoology at the University of Florida.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY

 BODY:
As many as 30 million mon arch butterflies perhaps 30 percent of the North American monarch population -- died after a snowstorm hit their sanctuaries in Mexico on Dec. 30. But storms are not the real threat to the monarchs, which have wintered in the cold Mexican mountaintops for more than 10,000 years.
As is true for so much of besieged nature, the real dangers the butterflies face are man-made, in this case the destruction of the Oyamel fir forests in Mexico's central highlands. 
 About 90 percent of the world's monarchs live east of the Rockies. Each fall, they migrate 2,000 miles from as far away as southern Canada to their winter quarters in the Oyamel forests -- relict ecosystems of the Pleistocene era two miles above sea level. The monarchs swirl down from the sky, festooning the boughs and trunks of the trees with layer upon layer of delicate wings, patterned in white, orange and black.
By early April, the eight-month-old butterflies migrate 800 miles back to the southern United States, where each female lays about 400 eggs on milkweed plants and then dies. The eggs turn into caterpillars, the caterpillars into jade-colored chrysalids etched with golden crowns. When they hatch, this spring generation travels 1,000 miles north to Canada. Over the summer, two or three more generations of butterflies are produced, and the great-grandchildren of those that flew north return to Mexico to repeat the cycle.
But the monarch's existence is threatened by the cutting of the remaining Oyamel forests. When intact, a forest serves as an umbrella and blanket, protecting the butterflies from freezing rains. The logging creates gaps that allow rain and snow to fall through the forest canopy and onto the butterfly clusters. As the weather clears, the life-sustaining heat radiated from the butterflies' bodies leaks out through these holes in the blanket of trees and the monarchs freeze to death.
Nearly two decades of conservation efforts by private organizations in Mexico, Canada and the United States -- as well as a 1986 order by then President Miguel de la Madrid to protect five wintering enclaves -- have done little to stop the destruction. The Mexican Government continues to permit logging in protected and unprotected areas. Illegal commercial cutting is rampant. Local peasants harvest trees for fuel and building materials, and cattle trample and eat the fir seedlings.
It is not too late to undo the damage. The Mexican Government and international conservation groups together should buy or lease the forests from the peasant communities, which are now allowed under Mexican law to sell their communal lands. This must be done quickly: Loggers are lobbying the Government to open up about 25 percent of the protected areas. The land could be bought for about $60 million, a small price in light of what is at stake, environmentally and economically.
Whereas logging is a one-shot deal, the local people could benefit indefinitely if they had help to create high-quality ecotourism ventures. To plan and pay for such projects, Mexico and private environmental groups and foundations need help from the United States and Canada. The three countries should be partners on environmental issues that affect all of them, in keeping with the side agreements to the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Can trilateral cooperation save the Oyamel sanctuaries? Or will North America let the forests fall and these majestic butterflies disappear?

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUTTERFLIES AND MOTHS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; MONARCH BUTTERFLIES INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); MAMMALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MOUNTAINS (75%); FARM LABOR (68%); LOBBYING (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: ARIDJIS, HOMERO; BROWER, LINCOLN P

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



655 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Grandfather Didn't Know From Downsizing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re Bob Herbert's "Separation Anxiety" (column, Jan. 19), in which he talks about the unemployment that results from downsizing at corporations like AT&T and how the concerns of ordinary working men and women continue to get short shrift: 
 Some years ago while at New York City's Hall of Records to register the name of my sole proprietorship, I asked to see if my grandfather's furniture company was still listed in the records. For more than 50 years it had operated at Avenue of the Americas and 15th Street in Manhattan.
Though at the time I was disappointed that a huge, musty tome was not pulled out, its long rows of entries to be scanned for the handwritten entry, there it was in the computer printout: Kellner Brothers.
The company closed its doors toward the end of the Great Depression, my dad told me.
What struck me then, which I'm reminded of after reading Mr. Herbert's column, is that though business eventually dried up, my grandfather continued to keep his workers on the payroll because he felt a responsibility to them.
He did it beyond the time when smart businessmen would have stopped.
The "bottom line" was not fiscal then; it was moral.
When my grandfather finally went out of business, he and his family knew that he had done as much as he could and that he wasn't preserving his family's future on the backs of others.
Sure, the scale of business operations is different between Kellner Brothers and AT&T.
But that difference in scale still does not account for how such a corporation can post a profit of $4.7 billion and yet justify abdicating its responsibility to 40,000 employee families and their communities.
 
JANE B. KELLNER
New York, Jan. 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: KELLNER BROTHERS (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CLOSINGS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); FAMILY (69%); 

PERSON: KELLNER, JANE B; HERBERT, BOB BOB HERBERT (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



656 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Cornell Sets Record by Raising $1.5 Billion in 5 Years

BYLINE: By EMILY M. BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
Cornell University has announced the completion of the largest fund-raising campaign in the history of higher education, raising $1.5 billion in five years, $250 million more than its original goal.
Most of the money is to be used for financial aid, faculty salaries and academic programs, university officials said. More than a third, $610 million, will go into the university's endowment, putting it in the top 10 in the country at $1.75 billion. 
 Volunteers vied to raise the most money at elaborate events. Last fall in Ithaca, N.Y., they put on skits, such as one in which someone playing Gen. George Patton exhorted the troops to contribute.
"Tens of thousands of people put pieces into this jigsaw puzzle," said Harold Tanner, a chairman of the campaign.
Cornell officials said the university's endowment was low compared with peers like Harvard and Yale, and that Cornell needed to raise the endowment to remain competitive with them, particularly in subsidizing needy students.
Several other institutions, including Harvard, are also in the midst of campaigns to raise more than $1 billion.
In 1988, Cornell had an endowment of $38,652 per student, which was 77th in the country. Today, that number has almost doubled, to $77,078, putting the university in top 40. Even so, Cornell's endowment per student remains a little more than a fifth of Harvard's.
Because universities use the income from their endowments to defray costs, particularly to keep tuitions down, a low endowment means higher tuition and less financial aid.
When they first discussed a fund-raising campaign in 1987, Cornell's trustees considered the rising costs of financial aid, particularly their need-blind admissions policy. Cornell's motto, coined by Ezra Cornell, is: "I would found an institution where any person can find instruction in any study."
Cornell is an unusual mixture of a public and private university. Four of its 11 colleges make up New York State's land grant university, which receives money from the state and Federal governments to subsidize the costs of agricultural and industrial studies. The tuition in these schools is $8,490 for state residents. The other colleges are private, and tuition for all undergraduates is $20,066 this year, similar to tuition at Harvard and Yale.
In the late 1950's and early 60's, Peter Meinig waited tables and graded papers to help his family pay for Cornell. Many of his friends received financial aid. So, three decades later, when Mr. Meinig, now a venture capitalist, and his wife, Nancy, also a Cornell graduate, considered where to contribute, they decided to give $2 million to a scholarship fund for needy students with a potential for leadership.
"The cost of higher education is a big number," Mr. Meinig said. "We need to make it affordable to everybody."
More than $200 million of the money raised is dedicated to financial aid. Some 37 percent of Cornell students receive grants directly from the university. The university's president, Hunter R. Rawlings 3d, said the increased endowment would mean tuition would rise at about the rate of inflation in the next few years.
Another major goal of the campaign was faculty support. The $146 million raised for that purpose will endow 118 positions, another area in which the university felt it was behind its peers. With the endowments, Cornell officials said, it would be easier to retain and recruit talented professors.
Ronald P. Lynch, a graduate of Cornell's College of Agriculture in the 1950's, gave $5 million to endow the deanship of the college. The income from that fund will give the dean, now Daryl B. Lund, more money in his budget to spend at his discretion.
"I have been lucky enough to be very, very successful in life," said Mr. Lynch, an investment banker who serves on the university's board. "A big part of that is the confidence I gained competing at Cornell and surviving at Cornell."
Improving the undergraduate experience will be a priority in the next few years, said Stephen H. Weiss, chairman of the board. The board is studying the first two years of a student's time at Cornell, looking for ways to give more access to professors.
President Rawlings said he was committed to increasing the number of undergraduates who have the chance to do more research with professors.
"It's a shame when undergraduates come into an institution where there are many great minds and don't really participate in that intellectual life," he said.
Even in his college days, Mr. Weiss said, he found Cornell a somewhat bewildering place, until the historian Clinton Rossiter took him under his wing. Mr. Weiss and five or six other students met every Wednesday night for two years at Professor Rossiter's house, eating doughnuts and coffee and discussing politics and the Presidency.
"It changed my whole life," Mr. Weiss said. "None of us who were in that group will ever forget it. That was college for me. It was the best experience I've ever had."
To try to make sure that today's students have similar experiences, Mr. Weiss gave $2 million to establish the Stephen Weiss Presidential Fellowship, an award for distinguished professors who commit their time and energy to teaching undergraduates. Since 1993, three professors have been chosen to receive $5,000 a year for five years.
Although Cornell does not plan to have another major campaign, Mr. Weiss said, officials will still try to raise money for specific projects in the College of Arts and Sciences, as well as to bolster basic sciences at the College of Medicine in Manhattan, and to continue increasing the financial aid pool.
Cornell's campaign was the largest to date, but Columbia, which has already raised more than $1 billion, and Harvard are both trying to break the $2 billion mark.
"Cornell won't be No. 1 for long," Mr. Meinig said. "But that's all right. We'll be back." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (74%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENDOWMENTS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); RANKINGS (71%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, EMILY M STEPHEN H WEISS (57%); PETER MEINIG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



657 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
 
* California Health Facilities Financing Authority is selling $62.8 million of health facility revenue bonds through Paine Webber. The bonds are priced to yield from 3.35 percent for an issue due in 1996 to 5.65 percent for an issue due in 2016.
 
* Chrysler Financial Corp., Southfield, Mich., is selling $300 million of notes due in 2001 through Bear, Stearns & Co. The notes are priced at 99.463 to yield 6 percent. The noncallable issue is rated A3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and A- by the Standard & Poor's Corp. and Duff & Phelps Credit.

* Federal Home Loan Bank is selling $45 million of bonds due in 2001 through Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Callable semiannually beginning Aug. 8, 1997, the bonds are priced at par to yield 5.905 percent.

* Federal Home Loan Mortage Corp., known as Freddie Mac, is selling $75 million of debentures due in 2006 through UBS Securities. Callable in five years, the debentures are priced at par to yield 6.350 percent.

* Lukens Inc., Coatesville, Pa., is selling $75 million of medium-term notes due in 2006 through J. P. Morgan Securities. The notes are priced at 99.384 to yield 6.585 percent. The noncallable issue is rated Baa2 by Moody's and BBB+ by S.& P.

Common
 
* Forte Software Inc., Oakland, Calif., filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to sell 1.85 million shares in an initial public offering. Morgan Stanley will be the lead underwriter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (71%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (69%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (67%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (67%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); CHRYSLER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (71%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (71%); LUKENS INC (69%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (67%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (57%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); CALIFORNIA HEALTH FACILITIES FINANCING AUTHORITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA HEALTH FACILITIES FINANCING AUTHORITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BONDS (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); DEBT NOTES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (70%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (69%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



658 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Fall Despite Lower Mortgage Rates

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned homes fell in December for a third straight month, despite the lowest mortgage rates in nearly two years, a realty group said today, in another sign of a slowing economy.
Sales of existing homes fell to an annual rate of 3.91 million, down 3.2 percent from November, the National Association of Realtors said. The December sales rate was up 4 percent from the same month of 1994 but it was weaker than Wall Street forecasts of a 4.02 million December reading. 
 The average rate for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loan in December was 7.2 percent, the lowest since 7.15 percent in February 1994, the group said. The December mortgage rate was down from 7.38 percent in November and 9.2 percent a year earlier.
"The positive impact from attractive mortgage rates just isn't enough to offset the weakness coming from the job market and the income market," said Steven Wood, economist at BA Securities Inc. "It's going to be hard outside of a significant further drop in mortgage rates to see how housing can be a positive contribution to economic activity in 1996."
Also today, the Labor Department said the number of people filing new claims for state unemployment benefits rose by 97,000 last week to the highest level since mid-July. First-time applications for unemployment pay rose to 413,000 in the week ended last Saturday from a revised 316,000 in the week earlier. The rise followed a week in which many people were prevented from filing because of snowstorms.
"I think the housing markets are just down a notch from the third quarter," said David Lereah, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. "All major housing measures -- starts, existing- home sales, and new-home sales -- are down from a couple of months ago. The housing markets right now are extremely vulnerable."
The Mortgage Bankers Association's weekly mortgage application survey showed the volume of mortgage applications rose 1.3 percent in the week ended Jan. 19.
Anthony Karydakis, economist at the First National Bank of Chicago, pointed to the mortgage application report as a reason not to be "particularly alarmed" about the housing sector.
The realtor group said the median price of a home, the midpoint at which half the homes sold for more and half for less, was $113,800 in December, down from $114,300 in November and up from $109,100 in December 1994.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (52%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; SALES; INTEREST RATES; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE MORTGAGE RATES (94%); EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); HOME PRICES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WEATHER (70%); EMPLOYMENT (54%); 

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



659 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises vs. Mark on Report Of U.S.-German Plan to Back It

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose to a four-month high against the German mark yesterday in late New York trading, recouping early losses. The gain was fueled by a report that German and United States officials wanted to strengthen the dollar against the mark.
The dollar surged after the Market News Service, a wire service, quoting unidentified people, reported that officials from both countries would like to see it rise and that the German Finance Ministry would be happy with a move to 1.60 marks. The ministry later denied that it had a target level for the mark, though it did say it backed a strong dollar. The United States Treasury declined to comment on the report. 
 "That report certainly got the dollar going," said Jim Raphael, currency trader at National Westminster Bank USA in Jersey City. "It just took off and kept accelerating."
The dollar rose as high as 1.4920 marks, its highest level since Sept. 18, and jumped to four-month highs against the Swiss and French francs.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar settled at 1.4892 marks, up from 1.4836 marks on Wednesday. The dollar ended at 106.90 yen, down from 106.93 yen. The British pound slipped to $1.5070 from $1.5115.
So far this year, the dollar has risen 3.7 percent against the mark, bolstered by expectations that interest rates in Germany and elsewhere in Europe will fall faster and further than rates in the United States as European governments try to jump-start their sluggish economies.
In recent weeks the German central bank has steadily lowered a key money-market rate, while central banks in Britain, France and Belgium, among others, have also trimmed rates. Several Bundesbank officials have cited the mark's relative strength as one key reason German economic growth is slowing.
The mark's gain of more than 7 percent against the dollar last year crimped exporters' earnings.
Many currency traders expect the dollar will continue to strengthen against most other major currencies.
"Over the next six to 12 months, the other hard currencies are likely to soften against the dollar," said Dimitri Balatsos, international portfolio manager at Furman, Selz Capital Management, which has $6 billion of investment assets.
In earlier trading, the dollar fell against most major currencies as political turmoil in Italy and fresh doubts that France would meet the requirements for European monetary union bolstered the mark against the lira and the franc.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (58%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (58%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); GERMAN MARK (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); BRITISH POUND (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



660 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Slight Drop In Coke Stock Despite Profit

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
Buoyed by surprisingly high beverage volume in the United States and on-target international growth, the Coca-Cola Company yesterday announced solid fourth-quarter earnings. Nevertheless, the stock fell as much as $2 during heavier-than-average trading yesterday, closing at $73.625, down $1.50.
For the quarter, net income rose 14 percent, to $648 million, or 52 cents a share, from $567 million, or 44 cents a share, in the corresponding quarter last year, matching the expectations of analysts. 
 For the 1995 year, earnings rose 17 percent, to $2.986 billion, or $2.37 a share, in comparison with $2.554 billion, or $1.98, during the corresponding quarter in 1994.
Roy D. Burry, a securities analyst with Oppenheimer & Company, said investors were reacting negatively yesterday to what he called "some red flags" in Coca-Cola's balance sheet, including an increase of 1.3 percent in the cost of goods sold in relation to revenues, which indicated higher production costs for Coke.
And a decline in the tax rate to 29.9 percent in the fourth quarter from 31.5 percent last year "raised the earnings a penny," said Andrew J. Conway, a beverage analyst with Morgan Stanley & Company.
Perhaps adding to some investors' uneasiness about the quality of Coke's earnings, Mr. Conway said, was the performance of Coca-Cola Foods, which makes Minute Maid orange juice and Hi-C drinks. That unit reported a 4 percent drop in volume for the quarter as well as a $15 million operating loss, compared with a profit of $100 million in 1994.
"But as a whole, Coke's quarter was on target, and even a smidgen better than had been expected," said Emanuel Goldman, a securities analyst for Paine Webber. He said the strong North American volume, up 8 percent in the quarter and 7 percent for the full year, reflected gains in Coke's convenience-store business.
Coca-Cola celebrated the quarter and the year yesterday, and Roberto C. Goizueta, Coke's chairman and chief executive, said that in 1995 the company achieved "record earnings, record case-sales volume, record market share and an outstanding total return of 46 percent for our share owners."
There was some disagreement about what the fourth quarter presaged for Coke. "It's a very highly priced stock, and we think it will not outperform the market," said Mr. Burry of Oppenheimer. And Gary D. Black, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, predicted the company would be a disappointment in 1996.
But Terry Bivens, a securities analyst for Donald & Company, said, "I think it's still a good buy because the quarterly results show there is room for improvement, and the Olympics should make a difference, since Coke will be a major presence." Mr. Goldman of Paine Webber said that Coke shares would continue to be promising despite their high multiple.
Although international shipments of Coca-Cola beverages declined in the fourth quarter, volume suffered from comparisons with the company's strong 1994 record. International volume is important because the United States accounts for only 21 percent of the company's worldwide sales.
The company did not provide an overall statistic for its international business yesterday, because Coke announced a basic shift in its administrative structure on Jan. 12 to merge the concepts of its "domestic" and "international" beverage businesses.
Nevertheless, Mr. Goldman of Paine Webber calculated that Coke's beverage volume outside the United States grew 9 percent, "within the 8 to 10 percent range Coke had predicted," he said.
Internationally, fourth-quarter results were hurt by the economic problems of Argentina and Mexico, as well as a price increase in Nigeria. But results were helped by a volume increase of 24 percent in Eastern Europe, 21 percent in Chile and 11 percent in Brazil.
Volume also increased 34 percent in China and 32 percent in India, while the volume growth in one of Coke's highest-margin units, Japan, increased 7 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Coca-Cola Co. (KO,N)"

Qtr. to Dec 31	1995	1994	%Ch	Rev.	4,333,000,000	4,026,000,000	+7.6	Net inc.	648,000,000	567,000,000	+14.3	Sh. earn	.52	.44	 	Sh. out.	1,253,000,000	1,283,000,000	 	Yr rev.	18,018,000,000	16,181,000,000	+11.4	Net inc.	2,986,000,000	2,554,000,000	+16.9	Sh. earn	2.37	1.98	 	Sh. out.	1,262,000,000	1,290,000,000	 	
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$73.625
Down $1.50

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (95%); MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (61%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (95%); MORGAN STANLEY (83%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (70%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (67%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (61%); DONALD & CO SECURITIES INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (73%); MARKET SHARE (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN EMANUEL GOLDMAN (62%); ANDREW J CONWAY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



661 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Flood of Cash to Mutual Funds Helped to Fuel '95 Bull Market

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Lured by an unprecedented bull market, and with aging baby boomers growing more concerned about retirement, stock mutual funds are taking in more money than ever before. And that money in turn is driving up stock prices, helping to bring in more money for the funds.
"January is the best month we ever had," Joseph Palombo, a managing director of Putnam Investments, exulted. He said flows of cash into stock funds were running 32 percent higher than in December, which had been the best month ever for his company's mutual funds. 
 For all of 1995, figures released yesterday showed that investors put almost $118 billion into funds that invest primarily in American stocks, 31 percent more than the old record, which was set in 1993. It is also more money than all stock funds had in them a decade ago. Now funds invested in American stocks have $1.07 trillion in assets.
In the process, stocks and mutual funds have replaced real estate and bank deposits as the largest segments of net worth in American households. Not since the late 1960's have Americans been so heavily dependent on the stock market.
That rush to stocks, largely through mutual funds, has aroused hand-wringing by some market analysts, who fear that when the stock market ultimately turns down it will set off a panicky exit by inexperienced investors. But so far, it has been the public that has rushed in when the market has run into temporary setbacks.
Mutual fund companies said yesterday that the sharp fall in stocks earlier this month, when the Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 164 points in two days, brought in few phone calls from fund shareholders and even less selling. "Investors just took it in stride," said Steve Norwitz, a spokesman for the T. Rowe Price group of funds. "It looks like it will take more than a couple of bad days to rattle mutual fund investors."
That should come as no surprise. The run of the stock market since 1988, as it recovered from the 1987 crash and then moved on to new heights, has no parallels in market history. The Dow has hit record highs in every year since 1989, a run of eight consecutive years including this one, with the latest high reached on Wednesday. The longest previous stretch was six years, a string that ended with the 1929 crash.
Moreover, leading stock market averages have almost not gone down at all during the period, with no sustained fall since 1990, when Iraq's invasion of Kuwait came just as the American economy was entering a recession.
With the first of the baby boomers turning 50 this year, more and more of them have begun to worry about retirement. With interest rates relatively low, and real estate prices quiet at best in most areas, stocks and mutual funds that invest in stocks have become the asset of choice for more investors. In the last five years, assets of mutual funds specializing in domestic stocks have nearly quintupled.
The Federal Government has also helped, with changes in tax laws that have liberalized rules on deferred compensation and with self-directed pension plans, like 401(k)'s, which are often invested in mutual funds. In fact, some fund companies said the flow of cash into mutual funds in January was inflated because many companies make matching contributions for 401(k) plans in that month.
The year ended on a high note, with domestic stock funds taking in a record $14.7 billion, according to the Investment Company Institute, a mutual fund trade group. Among categories of such funds, record amounts of cash flowed into growth funds, the medium-risk level for diversified stock funds, and into the more conservative growth and income funds. But aggressive growth funds, the riskiest group, fell short of the record it had set in July. Many such funds were heavily invested in technology stocks, which began to falter late in the year.
The 1995 figures showed that fund investors were much more cautious about bond funds, which had a good year but showed substantial losses in 1994. Funds devoted largely to taxable bonds took in a net $7.1 billion in the year, far below the record of $79.9 billion set in 1986 but a big turnaround from 1994, when the funds saw net withdrawals of $23.3 billion.
Funds that invest in municipal bonds did even worse. Municipal bonds did not fully participate in the bond market rally, in part because of concerns that the Federal tax laws might ultimately be changed to create a flat tax. Under some versions of the proposed flat tax, all investment income would be tax-exempt, as municipal bonds are now. Thus, municipal bonds would lose that advantage over other investments.Such funds had net withdrawals of $6.9 billion in 1995, which was better than the figure for 1994, when $15.5 billion was withdrawn.
The American stock market outperformed most foreign markets in 1995, and that was reflected in the cash flow figures, which saw funds devoted largely or solely to foreign stocks take in $11.6 billion, down from $43.5 billion the previous year. But fund companies said that January saw a resurgence of interest in such funds.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Moving to Wall Street" shows assets of mutual funds devoted primarily to U.S. stocks from 1984 to 1996. (Source: Investment Company Institute)(pg. D6); "Setting the Record" shows net cash flows into mutual funds that invest primarily in American stocks from1984 to 1995. (Source: Investment Company Institute)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TROW (NASDAQ) (53%); ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (75%); KUWAIT (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (53%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (75%); KUWAIT (75%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; SAVINGS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY MUTUAL FUNDS (98%); AGING TRENDS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); BONDS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RECESSION (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



662 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Report on Nation's Tobacco Use Shows Wide State-by-State Disparities

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
The first state-by-state profile of the nation's tobacco use, the huge economic penalty it exacts and the various state tobacco-control laws was released yesterday by the Federal Government, highlighting startling disparities.
The report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showed adult smoking rates varying from slightly more than 15 percent of the population in Utah to more than 30 percent in neighboring Nevada. Deaths related to smoking followed a similar but not identical pattern, although Nevada again ranked last, with a death rate more than twice that of Utah's. 
 Other parts of the report noted how far each state was from meeting national goals for reducing smoking by the year 2000, big differences in the percentages of teen-agers smoking, and medical costs ranging from nearly $4 billion annually in California to less than $100 million in less populous states.
The report was hailed by anti-tobacco groups as more proof of the need for strict national regulations recently proposed by the Food and Drug Administration. It was dismissed by the tobacco industry as old news.
The Government itself said that the comparisons might stimulate changes in some states but that the report was not part of any particular policy drive.
"This is a snapshot, not an evaluation of what reduces tobacco use and what doesn't," said Michael P. Eriksen, director of the Office on Smoking and Health at the centers, a Federal agency whose headquarters are in Atlanta. "There's no analysis, no recommendations, no conclusions."
The data most likely to attract attention related to smoking among high-school-age students because underage smokers are the target of the proposed F.D.A. rules.
The figures, which date from 1993, show West Virginia facing the biggest problems -- just under 39 percent of its students in the 9th through the 12th grade reported smoking within the month in which they were surveyed. Only 16.7 percent of the high-school-age children in Washington, D.C., had smoked though, a reflection of the generally lower smoking rate among black adolescents.
"These tremendous disparities show the need for national action," said Dr. Michele Bloch, who spoke for the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, which joined with other anti-tobacco advocates in Washington today to urge Congress to support the Clinton Administration's F.D.A. initiative. That proposal would severely restrict the advertising and marketing of tobacco products and would ban some forms of distribution.
Walker Merryman, a spokesman for the Tobacco Institute, an industry trade group in Washington, said: "This report is more rehash than research. It's not terribly useful for understanding why kids smoke."
Mr. Merryman also disputed the data cited on the medical cost of treating tobacco-related illnesses, saying there was little scientific basis for the calculations.
The Government has estimated that the direct medical cost of treating smoking-related illnesses in 1993 was about $50 billion nationwide. The figures in yesterday's report are lower because they date from 1990.
The estimate does not include the indirect costs of smoking, such as time lost from work. The Government is working on a new estimate of such costs, which public health experts say run at least as high as the direct costs.
Anti-smoking groups said the report pointed to the impact of higher taxes. Eight of the 10 states with the lowest cigarette taxes have a higher than average number of smokers.
The figures are muddy, though, because many states have raised taxes recently while the number of smokers has been built up over decades. The state of Washington, which has the highest taxes at 81.5 cents a pack, ranks in the middle on percentage of smokers, below states like Alabama and Georgia, which are among the lowest taxers.
Public health officials in several states said that having so much comparative data available would be helpful in pushing legislators to back new restrictions or reverse measures passed with the backing of the tobacco industry.
Anti-smoking groups are particularly worried about cases where states have passed industry-backed laws banning cities and towns from imposing their own restrictions. The report shows that one-third of the states now have such pre-emptory laws.
Some of the states worst off in the rankings are the least likely to be affected by the report. "Our legislature doesn't even meet this year," said Willie Davis, Nevada's tobacco education and information officer. Mr. Davis said the comparisons might help in 1997, but he was not optimistic.
"It's hard when the state's economy is so linked to gaming, which is linked to tobacco," he said. "They have the same lobbyists and they are the most influential in the state."

GRAPHIC: Map/Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Where There's Smoke" percentage of people age 18 and older who smoke in each state, based on 1992-1993 data. (Source: Centers for Disease Control) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (91%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (91%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH; NEVADA; WEST VIRGINIA; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEVADA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; STATES (US); BLACKS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH ; SALES TAX US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); SMOKING (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); SMOKING BANS (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); RANKINGS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



663 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Niagara Mohawk Stock Dives After Dividend Suspension

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
Seeking to strengthen its balance sheet and call attention to its need for relief from the state, the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, a big utility in upstate New York, said yesterday that its board had decided not to pay a dividend on common stock in the first quarter.
A spokesman for Niagara Mohawk, one of the larger utilities in the nation, said that the company did not know when the board would reinstate the dividend. It had averaged 28 cents a share in recent quarters. 
 Dividends on all series of preferred stock were declared at the usual rates for the first quarter.
After the announcement yesterday afternoon, shares of Niagara Mohawk plunged $1.25, to close at $8.50 in heavy trading of more than one million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
Last year, other utilities like the FPL Group's Florida Power and Light and New York State Electric and Gas cut their dividends in anticipation of greater competition. But utilities have not suspended payments in recent years.
Such actions were common in the late 1980's and early 1990's when many utilities, including Niagara Mohawk, suspended dividend payments because of huge cost overruns and losses related to building and operating nuclear power plants.
Analysts said that Niagara Mohawk's action would only add to the uncertainty that many stockholders have begun to feel about utility stocks, which were popular because many paid dividends regularly and often increased them.
The stocks have been attractive to retirees and those who wanted a steady income with little change in stock prices. In recent years, however, analysts have warned that the stocks have become more volatile and dividends less certain because the utility industry's monopoly has been eroded. Aggressive industrial customers have been clamoring for lower rates and states like California and New York have been seeking to gradually deregulate the industry, which would allow more competition.
Steven M. Fetter, a utilities analyst for Fitch Investors Service, said that Niagara Mohawk stockholders "are nervous now."
"To the extent that this strategy helps the company avoid bankruptcy, then perhaps it will help shareholders," he said.
In October, the utility, which is based in Syracuse, had threatened to seek protection from creditors under bankruptcy laws unless state regulators acted on a sweeping relief plan that it filed with New York State Public Service Commission. Under the plan, the company sought help to get out from under a high-cost, long-term contract with independent power producers and asked the state to take over or refinance Niagara Mohawk's two nuclear power plants at Nine Mile Point on Lake Ontario.
Niagara Mohawk said it needed the aid to remain viable and to eventually implement a plan for a five-year freeze on residential rates and a reduction in rates for industrial customers.
"We recognize that eliminating the dividend is a serious action," said William E. Davis, Niagara Mohawk's chairman and chief executive. "But it is one of several actions that are necessary to provide flexibility as we address growing pressure from mandated power purchases and weak sales."
The utility is still obligated to buy power under high-cost contracts that it signed in the late 1980's and early 1990's. Sales of electricity by Niagara Mohawk -- which serves 1.5 million customers mostly in upstate New York, where the economy has been weak -- dropped 5.5 percent last year, compared with 1994.
Industrial customers want lower rates, including some towns that have threatened to form municipal systems to cut their utility costs.
Mr. Davis said that without state action to lessen its burdens, the utility would seek price increases for this year and the next.
The utility also reported earnings for the fourth quarter yesterday. Net income was $18.2 million, or 13 cents a share, compared with a loss of $87.9 million in the fourth quarter in 1994.
The fourth-quarter earnings in 1994 included a charge of $196.6 million for cuts in the utility's work force. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGE (NYSE) (56%); FPL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (94%); NEW YORK STATE ELECTRIC & GAS CORP (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT CO (56%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LAKE ONTARIO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: DIVIDENDS NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (61%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (50%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



664 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Whitman's Aides Project A Rise in Tax Collections

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Despite a shortfall in some tax revenues this year and recent signs that the New Jersey economy has stalled, the Whitman administration today projected moderate economic growth and a rise in state tax revenues in the coming year.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's third budget, which she will present on Monday to the State Legislature, calls for tax revenues to increase by $152 million in the fiscal year beginning July 1, Treasurer Brian W. Clymer said. At the same time he said that tax revenues this year are going to fall $85 million short of his original projection. 
 Mr. Clymer released highlights of the annual budget at a news conference. He said income tax revenues would increase $63 million in the new budget over this year, even though the full impact of Governor Whitman's 30 percent income tax cut took affect this month, and personal income tax collections are $33 million below projections this year.
To help balance Governor Whitman's proposed $16 billion state budget, Mr. Clymer said the administration intended to take $249 million in surplus revenues out of the State Disability Benefit Fund general account.
Employers, along with more than 2.5 million workers in New Jersey, now contribute regularly to the fund, which distributes benefits up to 26 weeks to people who are temporarily disabled.
Governor Whitman had said that cutting income tax rates would spur the economy and create tens of thousands more jobs, but the state economy is expected to create only 39,000 new jobs, a 17,000 decline from last year, state figures show.
Just last week, new Federal data showed that New Jersey's unemployment rate rose sharply in December, to 7.3 percent from 6.1 percent in the previous month. New Jersey had the second highest joblessness rate of any big industrial state. Those figures did not reflect AT&T's recent announcement of 7,000 layoffs.
But senior Whitman administration officials played down the importance of the unemployment report, calling it a blip on the state's economic screen. The Deputy Treasurer, David Kehler, said, "There have been ups and downs. We are much less persuaded by these trends."
Mr. Clymer said that he thought that the state's projections were prudent. "I think that we have been very circumspect," he said.
Mr. Clymer sought to put to rest concerns about the impact of an uncertain economy on the state budget. He said that the state's projected budget surplus for this fiscal year, which had been $550 million, would grow to $900 million. This is, in part, because of a $212 million unexpected savings in Medicaid caused by fewer claims and a $120 million reduction in spending in state agencies that he ordered last fall. Mr. Clymer also said that the state was counting on unspent funds from the judiciary and New Jersey Transit, along with a bond refinancing in the spring that would generate $19.5 million.
By rolling a huge surplus into the new fiscal year, Mr. Clymer will be giving Governor Whitman room to maneuver should there be a sudden sharp downturn in the economy, resulting in a dramatic fall in tax revenues.
Mr. Clymer defended drawing on the disability benefit fund for operating budget expenses, rather than returning some of the surplus to employers and employees. The employer tax ranges from 0.1 percent to 0.75 percent and the employee tax is a flat 0.5 percent, both of which are applied against the first $17,600 in wages earned.
State officials also acknowledged today that part of the shortfall in revenue collections is a result of the state's failure to collect aggressively motor vehicle surcharges slapped on motorists with bad driving records or who have been convicted of driving under the influence. They expected $139 million in revenue from the program this year, but they only collected $49 million. State officials said that they were considering hiring an outside contractor who could do a better job collecting the surcharges. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (96%); INCOME TAX (91%); BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TRENDS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TAX LAW (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); MEDICAID (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



665 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: British Agent Facing U.S. Arms Charges

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

 BODY:
In the years before the Persian Gulf war, Paul Grecian, a British arms dealer, spied on Iraq. Among the military secrets he provided to British intelligence was the first word of Iraq's development of a "supergun" capable of firing artillery shells 600 miles.
Now Mr. Grecian sits in a South African jail facing extradition to the United States. A hearing has been scheduled for Feb. 16. He is charged with bank fraud, perjury and conspiring to ship 300,000 artillery fuses made by a New Jersey company to Iraq, in violation of an American ban on arms sales to Baghdad. 
 Mr. Grecian says the shipment was part of his cover as a spy. Late last year an appeals court in Britain seemed to endorse his claim, overturning his guilty plea to similar charges there.
Although it has attracted little attention outside Britain, Mr. Grecian's case highlights the West's role in quietly permitting President Saddam Hussein to build an arsenal before the gulf war.
Federal prosecutors in Newark brought the charges against Mr. Grecian in 1993 as part of a related indictment against Rexon Technology, a munitions manufacturer in Wayne, N.J., and its top four officers. The conspiracy is alleged to have occurred in 1989, a year before Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
Although Rexon paid a fine and closed last year, charges against the officers were dropped. The reason, a senior prosecutor acknowledged, was a 1994 deposition in which Mr. Grecian said he had told Rexon the fuses were going to Jordan at the suggestion of British intelligence.
In a recent telephone interview from prison in Benoni, South Africa, Mr. Grecian said he suspected that the fervor of the American prosecutors' pursuit stemmed from his torpedoing of the Rexon case.
"I am totally in shock," Mr. Grecian, 40, said. "It has been an absolute nightmare these past weeks."
His lawyers argue that the case should be dismissed because it constitutes double jeopardy, since his guilty plea in Britain was overturned. "The refusal by the U.S. authorities to accept the judgment of the British appeal court is an insult to the British legal system," said Kevin Robinson, one of his lawyers.
Federal prosecutors countered that Mr. Grecian's espionage provided no immunity from American law and that his actions here were different from those in Britain.
Donald Davidson, a prosecutor in the United States Attorney's office in Newark, said, "Whatever his dealings were with the British Government, he had no business or authority helping hoodwink the American Government about the destination of these fuses."
Many Western companies prospered in the 1980's by selling weapons to Iran and Iraq, which were locked in a long war. Mr. Grecian first sold to Iran, but switched to Iraq when the war ended in 1988 and President Hussein began to build the Middle East's largest army.
When asked by Mr. Davidson at his deposition whether he had misgivings about having sold war materiel to Mr. Hussein, Mr. Grecian replied: "It's not so much a question of moral qualms. There are a lot worse people to deal with, and an awful lot of established manufacturers were already dealing with him."
Mr. Grecian said he was first approached in the 1980's to gather intelligence because of his access to sensitive foreign military facilities. "My Government asked me to do something and I did it," he said.
Often he simply watched, listened and then shared the information with his controller in London. At other times, he said, he was assigned to obtain specific information.
"The majority of the stuff was pretty mundane, really," he said. "But once we got to the point where I was working in Iraq, the nature of the regime was quite effective in focusing one's mind."
Mr. Grecian says it was to maintain access to Iraq that he misled British Customs and Rexon in 1989 about the destination of the fuses, since both Britain and the United States barred such shipments to Iraq.
"I was asked to proceed with this project by the relevant authorities, or the security services, to enable myself specifically to gather various items of intelligence or data at their request," Mr. Grecian said.
No fuses were actually shipped to the Middle East, but Mr. Grecian provided documents saying the fuses were bound for Jordan, which allowed Rexon to obtain an American export license.
The fuses were part of a larger Iraqi contract arranged for Mr. Grecian by Gerald Bull, a renegade Canadian artillery expert working on behalf of Baghdad. Mr. Grecian learned that the scientist was developing a supergun for Iraq and he described the top-secret project to British intelligence in September 1989. Six months later, near Brussels, Mr. Bull was killed by two shots in the back of the head.
Mr. Bull's slaying generated a flurry of investigations by British customs after the discovery that supergun components had been manufactured in Britain. Mr. Grecian's company, Ordnance Technologies Ltd., became a target and he and three colleagues were charged in 1991 with illegal sales to Iraq.
The defense said the Government had turned a blind eye toward such sales, but the prosecutor told the judge there was no evidence to support the claim. In February 1992 the men pleaded guilty in exchange for suspended sentences.
Ten months later the Government lost a similar case against Paul Henderson, another British businessman who had sold arms to Iraq and spied. In the middle of Mr. Henderson's trial, a former Cabinet member testified that the Government knew British companies had sold arms to Iraq.
The next day Prime Minister John Major ordered an inquiry into the Government's knowledge of arms sales to Iraq. The investigation is expected to release its report next month.
After the Henderson case collapsed, Mr. Grecian filed an appeal. Documents turned over last year proved that Government officials had known about his sales to Iraq. In November, the guilty pleas of Mr. Grecian and his colleagues were overturned.
One document was a memo prepared before Mr. Grecian's arrest. In it, a Foreign Office official suggested that Mr. Grecian might be persuaded to keep quiet if he realized the danger of being identified as the person who had blown the whistle on the supergun.
"If we were not too squeamish," the official wrote, "we might use this point to insure silence."
The 1993 American indictment remained outstanding, but Mr. Grecian could not be extradited from Britain because of the nature of the charges.
Last year he wanted to spend Christmas with his fiancee in South Africa. He said he got in touch with the South African head of Interpol, the international police agency, and was assured that he could enter the country without fear of arrest.
On Dec. 15, when he flew to Johannesburg, Mr. Grecian was arrested. He and his supporters believe that the Interpol official lured him to South Africa on behalf of the American prosecutors.
Since his arrest, he has been held without bail because prosecutors said he might use his experience as an intelligence agent to flee.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Grecian (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GULF STATES (88%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: REXON TECHNOLOGY INC AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REXON TECHNOLOGY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GULF STATES (88%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ESPIONAGE ARMS TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); PRISONS (76%); INDICTMENTS (76%); APPEALS (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); DOUBLE JEOPARDY (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (55%); 

PERSON: GRECIAN, PAUL; FRANTZ, DOUGLAS SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



666 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Future in Doubt, Apple Still Fills A Crucial Post

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Indicating that business goes on even as its fate as an independent company hangs in the balance, Apple Computer Inc. today filled a high-level executive post that had been open for nearly a year.
The company named Heidi Roizen, the co-founder and former chief executive of a software producer called T-Maker, to be vice president in charge of its relations with independent software developers. 
 The move came as merger talks between Apple and Sun Microsystems Inc. were said to remain snagged over the issue of the acquisition price Sun would pay for Apple. Neither company has formally acknowledged those discussions yet, but executives close to both sides say that Sun is reluctant to go much higher than the $23-a-share offer it has already made.
Whether Apple emerges from its current financial crisis still independent or is acquired by Sun or another suitor, Ms. Roizen fills a key role as the company struggles to maintain its relevance in the personal computer market.
It will be her responsibility to manage relations with the outside software developers who create programs for Apple's Macintosh computer. Fostering the continued development of word-processing software, spreadsheets and other applications and games has become crucial for Apple.
In recent years, many developers have abandoned work on Macintosh programs in favor of the much more widely used Windows software operating system by the Microsoft Corporation. In fact, Apple is in the unenviable position of having Microsoft now serve as the largest outside developer of Macintosh application programs.
Ms. Roizen's former company, T-Maker Inc., was an early producer of software for the Apple Macintosh computer -- a word-processing program in 1984 called Write Now. T-Maker was acquired by the Deluxe Corporation in 1994, but Ms. Roizen had until now stayed on.
Ms. Roizen, who is 37, has a high profile in the industry from her years as president of the Software Publishers Association, an industry trade group. Analysts said that recruiting her demonstrated that Apple had not abandoned hope for its future, and was a positive signal after a stream of resignations by high-level executives in recent months.
"To attract someone of the star quality of Heidi Roizen is quite significant," said Tim Bajarin, an analyst with Creative Strategies. "I'm positive Apple opened up the kimono, and she saw the opportunities along with the challenges."
Merger talks between Apple and Sun Microsystems have apparently broken off, at least temporarily, according to executives close to both companies. Sun has offered just $23 for each share of Apple, still significantly less than their publicly traded value despite a drop in recent days. Yesterday, Apple shares fell $2, to $30.25, in Nasdaq trading, while Sun shares rose 37.5 cents, to $43.875.
People in the Silicon Valley investment banking community say that Apple management is insisting that the company is still worth a premium above the value of its shares in the stock market.
But one analyst, Lucianne Painter of Merrill Lynch, has published a report that places Apple's book value at $22.72 a share and says that a price in the mid-20's would be fair for Apple, based on its earnings outlook for the year. "Apple has not sufficiently defined a cohesive strategy for the future," Ms. Painter wrote.
Some mutual-fund managers and institutional shareholders of Sun Microsystems stock are evidently cool to a merger at any price.
"I didn't buy Sun's stock for this reason," said one fund manager, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "If things were so great at Sun, why would they be doing this? They'd be burdened by tons of operational issues, and Scott McNealy has never done a merger of any consquence." Mr. McNealy is Sun's president and chief executive.
Ms. Roizen said today that she had no knowledge of the talks between Apple and Sun, but was joining the company with full awarness of the difficulties it faces. "It's a challenging time for Apple," she conceded.
Apple has tried to regain market share in the hotly competitive PC business, but it has seen its profit margins dwindle as PC prices have plunged. Because it sells products based on its own hardware and software specifications, instead of the industry standards of hardware based on Intel Corporation specifications and software based on Microsoft's, Apple's research and development costs are much higher than those of its rivals.
Last week the company posted a loss of $69 million for its first quarter and said it would cut 1,300 jobs -- roughly 8 percent of its work force.
But just as Sun and, possibly, other suitors see at least some residual value in Apple, Ms. Roizen said that the company retained numerous strengths.
"If they get a couple of things worked out, there are a lot of assets at Apple," she said. "There's still a lot of 'there' there. There are a lot of smart people, and a sense of 'By God, we're tired of being kicked around and let's do something about it.' "
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (82%); DLX (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (65%); SIC2761 MANIFOLD BUSINESS FORMS (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: APPLE COMPUTER INC; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC APPLE INC (96%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (82%); DELUXE CORP (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: APPLE COMPUTER INC; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); MERGERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M; ROIZEN, HEIDI ANN LIVERMORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



667 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices Plunge Over a Point On Treasuries

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell sharply yesterday after talk of selling by some large hedge funds weighed on already jittery investors.
The market was also held down by a rise in gold prices and by a growing concern that the Government would not raise the debt ceiling in time to avert a default on Treasury securities. After the market closed, Republican leaders and the White House announced a plan to keep the Government open until March 15, a move that might allow the market to bounce back today. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 16/32 , to 11013/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 6.11 percent, from 6.03 percent on Wednesday and its highest in two weeks.
Traders said that hedge funds were selling intermediate Treasuries securities, particularly two- and five-year notes. A lot of the liquidation, they said, involved the unwinding of yen-financed trades.
In such trades, hedge funds, which are private investment funds for wealthy individuals, buy Japanese yen, borrow in Japan at low interest rates and then buy United States Treasury securities. The difference in rates, said William Shea of the Nikko Securities Company International, has been as much as 5 percent. The risk in the strategy, he said, was if the value of the yen rose.
Mr. Shea said he suspected that the funds began to unload when the yen approached an important technical level.
James Hale, a fixed-income analyst at MMS International of San Francisco, said yen-financed trades had been a source of Treasury buying for the last several months so that an unwinding would have a big impact on the market.
Bond prices were also weakened by the announcement late Wednesday that Moody's Investors Service Inc. was considering lowering its rating for $387 billion in Treasury securities. While few in the market believe it will happen, the prospect of a credit review can be enough to unnerve foreign investors.
The Moody's announcement bolstered gold prices. Gold is often sought as a safe haven when there is political or financial turmoil. Gold for February delivery rose yesterday to $406.70 an ounce on the Commodity Exchange of New York, its highest price since Aug. 2, 1993.
Rising gold prices are typically a sign of growing fears of inflation. While yesterday's rise was attributed to the concerns over a default, it still had an impact on the bond market. "The bond market knows why, but is reacting to it anyway," Mr. Shea of Nikko Securities said.
The market was unnerved enough yesterday to ignore a couple of weak economic reports on the economy, as the Labor Department reported that initial jobless claims rose for the first time last week. For the week ended last Saturday, jobless claims rose 97,000, to 413,000.
Separately, the National Association of Realtors said the number of previously owned homes sold in December fell 3.2 percent, to an annual rate of 3.91 million. Both numbers, traders said, were ignored because the market felt that they were weather tainted.
Stewart Taylor, fixed-income market analyst with Thomson Research, Boston, said yesterday's signs suggested the market would test the floor on Treasury prices. "It is likely that the market is rolling over and is on the verge of beginning a correction," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from Sept. 1995 to Jan. 1996. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 8603 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (65%); NIKKO CORDIAL CORP (55%); PRICES OF TREASURY (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); HEDGE FUNDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); DEBT CEILING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (70%); EXISTING HOME SALES (69%); JAPANESE YEN (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT WILLIAM SHEA (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



668 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Unholy Alliance In Nigeria

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Dr. Owens Wiwa, a Nigerian physician, had nurtured the faint hope that the Royal Dutch/Shell Group would use its powerful influence with the Nigerian Government to help secure the release of his brother, Ken Saro-Wiwa, a poet, playwright and environmental activist who was in prison on trumped-up murder charges.
Mr. Saro-Wiwa's imprisonment was a miscarriage of justice. The miscarriage became an atrocity last Nov. 10 when he and eight co-defendants, after a trial by a court set up especially for them, were sentenced to death and hanged. 
 Three times during the course of his brother's imprisonment, Dr. Wiwa met with Brian Anderson, the managing director of the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria. Dr. Wiwa wanted Mr. Anderson to intervene on his brother's behalf with the strongman Government of Gen. Sani Abacha.
It was an appeal borne of desperation. Ken Saro-Wiwa was one of the most prominent critics of the nightmarish alliance between the oil companies and Mr. Abacha's Government. He had led an international campaign that focused on the environmental damage caused by the oil companies, the brutality of the Abacha regime and the inequitable distribution of benefits from the industry. The riches from Nigeria's vast oil reserves are being hijacked by the oil companies and the military dictatorship while the Nigerian people suffer in an oppressive atmosphere of extreme unemployment, extreme inflation and a per capita income comparable to that of Haiti.
"I went to see Brian Anderson for only one reason," Dr. Wiwa told me in a telephone conversation on Wednesday. "I asked him to use his influence to see that the trial would not start, so that Ken and his co-defendants could be free because they were innocent."
Dr. Wiwa understood the symbiotic relationship between Shell and the Abacha regime. The essence of that relationship was captured in a classified Government memo regarding protests against Shell in the Ogoniland region, home of the ethnic group to which Dr. Wiwa and his brother belonged. Dated Dec. 5, 1994, the memo said in part:
"Shell operations still impossible unless ruthless military operations are undertaken for smooth economic activities to commence."
Dr. Wiwa said he had been told by Mr. Anderson that it would be difficult to help his brother, but that something might be done if Ken Saro-Wiwa would call off the protest campaign of his organization, the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People, and if a press release were issued, on the movement's letterhead, saying that there had been no environmental damage in Ogoniland.
"I told him," said Dr. Wiwa, "that we could not do that."
Dr. Wiwa viewed his meetings with Mr. Anderson as critical discussions on a matter of life or death. If his account is true, it means that Shell saw Ken Saro-Wiwa and his co-defendants not as human beings unjustly accused and facing possible doom, but simply as chips in a big-league game of public relations. Your press release or your life.
Shell officials said yesterday that Dr. Wiwa's account was not true. Eric Nickson, a spokesman, acknowledged that the meetings had taken place but said that Dr. Wiwa's version was "misleading," and that Mr. Anderson had never indicated he could be of assistance.
Mr. Nickson noted that Shell had pulled its operations out of Ogoniland in 1993 because of protests and acts of sabotage against Shell. "Whilst we would like to go back," he said, "we are only prepared to go back if we have the support of the communities in Ogoniland. So these meetings were initiated by Mr. Owens Wiwa to find whether there were some middle ground on which to try and resolve this situation."
And what, Mr. Nickson was asked, did Mr. Wiwa want? Under the circumstances, why else would he seek out Mr. Anderson except to plead for help in saving his brother?
Mr. Nickson said he didn't know. "I wasn't present at the meetings, unfortunately."
The execution of Mr. Saro-Wiwa and his co-defendants has been widely condemned by world leaders. But it has not shaken the bond between Shell and the execrable Nigerian Government. They are going ahead with their joint plans to build a $4 billion natural gas project.
They will not miss the chastizing voice of the silenced Ken SaroWiwa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (94%); RDSA (AMS) (94%); RDS.B (NYSE) (94%); RDS.A (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); 

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA; NIGERIA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SENTENCING (77%); PRISONS (77%); MURDER (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); ETHNICITY (50%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; SARO-WIWA, KEN; WIWA, OWENS (DR) SANI ABACHA (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



669 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. BACKING OFF FROM TOUGH STAND OVER ENVIRONMENT

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Republicans are increasingly worried that by imposing deep cuts on environmental programs they are doing even deeper political damage to their party, and they are beginning to back away from further confrontations on environmental issues.
As a result, it now appears more likely that Congress might loosen somewhat the fiscal vise that has gripped environmental agencies during the long budget impasse, while a number of proposals favoring mining, logging, oil and other big industries could vanish from the legislative landscape. 
 Administration officials and environmentalists can hardly claim victory yet. The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Carol M. Browner, said that at a Senate hearing on Friday, she would testify that the cuts already imposed, and the slightly less severe ones still to come, would force the agency to delay some of its highest priorities, including new measures to control dangerous pollutants in drinking water.
But some environmentalists are starting to say, with a hint of wonder in their voices, that they are close to success in making environmental programs what one lobbyist called a "third rail," political slang for issues like Social Security that are best not touched because they carry such voltage with voters.
Increasingly, Republicans are echoing the same message.
This week, 30 Republican moderates in Congress wrote Speaker Newt Gingrich to complain that the party had "taken a beating this year over missteps in environmental policy" and calling on him to correct the course during the continuing budget talks.
"If the party is to resuscitate its reputation in this important area, we cannot be seen as using the budget crisis as an excuse to emasculate environmental protection," said the letter, drafted by Representative Sherwood Boehlert, a maverick Republican environmentalist from upstate New York.
Even some of the party's more conservative advisers are sounding similar alarms these days.
"Our party is out of sync with mainstream American opinion," wrote Linda DiVall, a Republican pollster, in reporting to Congressional clients on a recent nationwide survey on environmental issues.
But many in the party's leadership are reluctant to change course. They say the problem is not their agenda but the way they have explained it.
"What is out of sync is the distortion of our record by the Administration and by radical environmental groups who want to continue to overregulate the economy," said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, head of the House Republican Conference.
Environmental groups have mounted a sustained campaign all year to get their millions of members to complain to lawmakers about the Republican agenda, and it appears that the effects are increasingly being felt.
Last week, during the Congressional recess, the entire New Jersey delegation of eight Republicans and five Democrats wrote to the Republican leadership asking that full financing be restored to the Superfund program, a reaction to news that the E.P.A. had suspended the clean-up of hundreds of toxic waste sites.
In his State of the Union address, President Clinton spoke at length about environmental issues, which usually take a back seat to others. He won applause and loud cheers when he denounced the environmental proposals of the Republicans and challenged Congress to "re-examine those policies and reverse them."
The problem for the Republican leadership, though, is that many of those proposals are at the heart of their promise to roll back Federal regulations, and many of the party's leaders, including Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, and Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, one of Speaker Gingrich's loyal lieutenants, are among their most vigorous advocates.
In a speech to the National Association of Manufacturers today, Mr. DeLay, the majority whip, accused Mr. Clinton of lying in his speech when he said that by voting to cut environmental enforcement by 25 percent, Congress was serving the interests of corporate lobbyists at the expense of clean water and children's health.
"That isn't just misrepresenting the truth; that is outright lying," Mr. DeLay said.
But Ms. DiVall, whose clients include a conservative Republican Presidential candidate, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, said in her polling report that some of the party's environmental policies were broadly disdained by Democrats and Republicans alike -- and by most independents, most young people and most women.
"By greater than a 2-to-1 margin, voters have more confidence in the Democrats than Republicans as the party they trust most to protect the environment," her report said. "Most disturbing is that 55 percent of Republicans do not trust their party when it comes to protecting the environment, while 72 percent of the Democrats do trust their party."
The poll came up with especially strong signals on the Republicans' efforts to cut spending at the E.P.A.
"Attacking the E.P.A. is a nonstarter," Ms. DiVall wrote.
Her polling found that only 35 percent of the public would vote to re-elect members of the House who supported the Republican-backed bill cutting financing for the agency, by a third, while 46 percent said they would vote not to re-elect them. If voter turnout in November is higher, she warned, the results would be worse.
Warnings like that seemed to be having an effect today, as the House leadership brought to the floor the latest stop-gap spending bill, to keep the Federal Government open until March. Previous temporary spending bills have singled the E.P.A. out for especially severe cuts, especially in enforcement and clean-up activities.
The measure, passed by the House tonight, would still cut the agency's financing, just as deeply as the spending bill President Clinton vetoed in December but not as deeply as the cuts since Oct. 1, when the fiscal year began.
The Interior Department, another environmental agency that has been operating without a final agreement on its budget, would be financed until March. But the real issue facing that agency is not how much money it can spend, but rather what environmental policies it must follow.
One of the biggest fights of the past year was over changes the Republicans proposed in the mining law. Favored by industry and opposed by environentalists, the measure was part of Interior bill and the broader budget bill, both of which Mr. Clinton vetoed.
Today, Jack Gerard, an industry spokesman, said the budget impasse had "at least for now halted progress toward passage of mining law reform."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LOBBYING (79%); SUPERFUND (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); WATER POLLUTION (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (59%); JOHN BOEHNER (59%); CAROL BROWNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



670 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Albany's Anti-City Vote

 BODY:
New York City's budget problems are so severe that Mayor Rudolph Giuliani is thinking about cutting the size of the police force. At the same time, however, the State Legislature is doing its best to make the Mayor's job harder by passing bills that would increase the cost of the city's police and fire departments. The Legislature could not have picked a more inopportune time to cater to special interests. Gov. George Pataki can do Mr. Giuliani a favor by using his veto pen.
Working with an uncharacteristic celerity this week, the State Senate and Assembly both passed a bill that could give some city unions an edge in winning higher salaries. The measure would give the state-run Public Employee Relations Board the power to resolve impasses in contract negotiations between the city and its police and fire unions. Currently the disputes are settled by the local Office of Collective Bargaining. 
 Under this office, city unions have not won the fat salary increases given to unions in the surrounding suburbs. As a result, officers in low-crime Westchester towns are paid more than those in the Bronx or Brooklyn. The lesson might be that the state board is too generous. Naturally, the city unions prefer to believe their board is too tough, and have lobbied for the switch.
Mr. Pataki, who vetoed a version of this bill last year, proposed a sensible compromise in December. Presently the state board compares each municipality's wage offers with salaries in surrounding towns. The Governor suggested the board also be directed to compare tax rates, the health of the local economy and a municipality's ability to pay for a new contract without hiking taxes.
The Legislature completely ignored his ideas, passing the bill in exactly the form the unions requested. The bill's supporters argued that any lawmaker who voted against the measure was not showing proper support for the city's brave officers and firefighters.
Only four members in each body dared to stand up against that specious position. The four Senators were Velmanette Montgomery of Brooklyn and Franz Leichter of Manhattan, both Democrats, and Robert DiCarlo of Brooklyn and Roy Goodman of Manhattan, Republicans. The Assembly members were James Brennan of Brooklyn and Deborah Glick and Scott Stringer of Manhattan, all Democrats, plus one Republican, John Ravitz of Manhattan.
The bill's strongest opponent is Mr. Giuliani, who has also been one of the most ardent defenders of the Police Department. But now Mr. Giuliani says he may propose reducing the department by 1,000 officers. This is a welcome change of heart for this administration, which has achieved new efficiency through the merger of the transit, housing and city police forces. The city may be able to cut the force even further if it replaces officers doing clerical duties with less expensive civilians.
But Mr. Giuliani's action should remind the unions, and the politicians, that as the cost of maintaining each police officer goes up, the number of officers the city can afford will drop.
The bill now goes to Mr. Pataki, who has been handed a tough political problem by the Republican-dominated State Senate. But if he is to have any credibility in the coming budget wars, he cannot begin the legislative session by imposing a new economic burden on the city. The bill must be vetoed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE LEGISLATURE (72%); STATE SENATE&ASSEMBLY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (72%); STATE SENATE&ASSEMBLY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; VETOES (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); VETO (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); TAX INCREASES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



671 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Key Players in Washington Agree to 45-Day Budget
House Republicans and the White House agreed to provide 45 days of spending for the parts of the Government that are still without a permanent budget, and the House approved the measure. Senate Democrats objected to education cuts, but were unlikely to be able restore that money. Disagreements also emerged about how to keep the Government from defaulting after March 1.
Speaker Newt Gingrich spoke of extending the debt limit after then, but the White House rejected his terms. [Page A1.]

Treasury bonds slumped on talk that some large hedge funds were selling, and on worry about the debt ceiling. The 30-year bond fell 1 6/32 , to 110 13/32 ; its yield jumped to 6.11 percent. Gold prices rose. [D16.]
 
Stock Mutual Funds Post Their Best Year Ever
The bull market, and aging baby boomers, are causing record inflows into stock mutual funds. One fund manager said flows of cash into stock funds in January were running 32 percent higher than in December. And for 1995, almost $118 billion was put into funds that invest primarily in American stocks. [A1.]
 
Stock prices slipped on disappointing earnings posted by such companies as Procter & Gamble, AT&T and Dow Chemical. The Dow slumped 26.01 points, to 5,216.83. [D6.]
 
Hasbro Argues Against a Merger
Investors bid up shares of Hasbro by $9.875, to $40.50, a day after Mattel proposed a $5.2 billion merger. But Hasbro, whose stock has been a laggard for years, was adamant about its discomfort with the plan, citing antitrust implications. Mattel fell 50 cents, to $31.50. [D2.]
 
Coke Shares Fall Despite Earnings
Investors were not impressed by Coca-Cola's 14 percent increase in quarterly net income. Coke shares fell $1.50, to $73.625. [D2.]
 
Weak Results at AT&T
AT&T posted a fourth-quarter loss of $2.68 billion, reflecting $6.25 billion in previously announced write-offs. Operating income was slightly below expectations. [D3.]
 
Utility Suspends a Dividend
In what is now an unusual move for a utility, Niagara Mohawk Power omitted the dividend on common stock. The company is pleading for relief from New York State. [D3.]
 
Business Week Sees Irregularities
Business Week magazine said it alerted regulators to a pattern of suspicious trading in stocks recommended in its "Inside Wall Street" column. [D4.]
 
G.O.P. Backpedals on Environment
Republicans are beginning to back away from confrontation on environmental issues, fearing political damage. [A1.]
 
Soviet-Styled Adviser for Yeltsin
Boris Yeltsin chose a Soviet-schooled industrialist as Russia's top economic official. The new official spoke out against measures to rein in government spending and to encourage a free market. [A1.]
 
Home Resales Fall for 3d Month
Sales of previously owned homes were down 3.2 percent in December from November. It was the third drop in a row, despite lower mortgage rates. [D3.]
 
A Slower Pace at Boeing
Despite strong orders, Boeing is planning to build just 215 planes this year. While the number is lower than analysts had predicted, many see the move as prudent. [D2.]
 
$40,000 a Second? No Problem.
Even as the price of running a commercial during the Super Bowl has reached a historic high of $40,000 a second, newcomers like Mastercard International and Kinko's are lining up to get on the broadcast. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D4.]
 
By Airline Standards, a Good Year
The airline industry rounded out what for it was a very good year, when its profit margin was a whopping 3.9 percent. But carriers made some important decisions. For instance, several stopped service on money-losing routes. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (94%); DOW (SWX) (55%); DOW (NYSE) (55%); DOW (LSE) (55%); 4850 (TSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); KO (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (94%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (52%); WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); DEBT CEILING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); COMMON STOCK (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); MERGERS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); DIVIDENDS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); GOLD MARKETS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); CHEMICALS (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



672 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Michigan Senate Passes Bill To Curb Taxes for 8 Areas

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Taking one of the most aggressive steps yet by a state to use tax policies rather than spending ones to revitalize impoverished areas, the Michigan Senate today passed a bill that would abolish all state and local income and property taxes in eight areas singled out for economic development.
The bill, expected to be passed by the state House of Representatives next month and already championed by the Governor, would create tax havens in eight impoverished areas across the state to be selected later this year. Residents and businesses in the eight "renaissance zones" would, for up to 15 years, pay only Federal taxes, local sales taxes and taxes tied to bonds already issued. 
 The effects of the plan may cross state lines. Michigan's Governor, John Engler, has established himself as a national leader in Republican efforts to overhaul the nation's welfare system. With the current legislation, other states hoping to spur economic growth in poor areas may look to Michigan as well.
Over the last nine years, New York State has provided a complex set of partial exemptions from various business taxes in several dozen areas called enterprise zones. But New York's plan is not as generous as Michigan's because it does not eliminate state income taxes for local residents.
In Michigan, tax bills in the eight zones would drop considerably under the Senate plan. A family with a home worth $70,000 and annual income of $60,000 would see its tax bill drop by $5,378, according to estimates by the Michigan Treasury Department.
Small businesses would save even more. A business with annual revenue of $500,000 in a building worth $250,000 would see its annual tax bill drop to $410 from $8,625. A company with annual revenue of $50 million in a building worth $3 million would find its taxes falling to $15,000 from $680,000, according to estimates from the office of Senator Richard E. Posthumus, the majority leader of the Michigan Senate.
"We're going way beyond what any other enterprise zone has ever done by making the taxes zero," Mr. Posthumus said. "It is not an end-all answer, and it is not going to solve every problem, but I think this is the boldest attempt to reinvigorate our cities that has been tried anywhere in the country.
"If it works, you'll see a number of states begin to adopt it."
But Senate Democrats who opposed the bill contended that it lacked adequate provisions requiring businesses setting up shop in a tax haven to hire local residents, and that the measure would mainly help businesses and the affluent, not the poor.
Experts in public policy said the legislation was the most ambitious effort yet by a state government to rely on free enterprise for economic revival in specific areas. But they added that other enterprise zones have had mixed results because companies have often set up operations inside the zones to save money on taxes but then bring in workers from more affluent neighborhoods.
William D. Eggers, an expert on enterprise zones at the Reason Foundation, a public policy research group in Los Angeles that advocates free-market policies, said the Michigan plan should not be seen as a cure-all. It "is probably the nation's most far-ranging, far-reaching enterprise legislation that has been enacted or has a good chance of being enacted soon," he said, "and is a positive development and a step in the right direction, but is certainly no panacea for the problems that are plaguing urban America."
Academic studies have found that as little as 15 percent of the workers in some enterprise zones actually live the zone, Mr. Eggers said.
Experts in inner-city development praised the Michigan plan, saying the tax breaks would increase home ownership and create jobs.
"The best police officer you can have is a homeowner, and the best family value you can have is a job," said John Bryant, chief executive of Operation Hope, a nonprofit investment bank founded to redevelop Los Angeles after the 1992 riots.
Mr. Bryant said it would probably take five to six years to see strong results, but "you are starting to create the foundation for the American dream."
Michigan's largest city, Detroit, has one of the United States' most troubled inner cities, and the city, once a symbol of American industrial might, has become a testament to urban troubles. Governor Engler said today that renaissance zones "could make a big, big difference" in Detroit.
The city's Mayor, Dennis Archer, said today that he was reserving judgment on the plan until he saw which provisions became law. But Mayor Archer said the version the Senate passed could help areas like Del Ray, a neighborhood with environmental problems that "sorely needs economic development."
The Senate legislation is a package of nine bills that would allow cities and counties to apply for the special tax status in eight small tax havens of up to eight square miles across. Five zones would be in cities, and three would be reserved for rural areas. The state would reimburse localities for the loss of any financing for schools.
Through a complex formula, cities could create patchworks of tax havens in their needy neighborhoods. For instance, Detroit could apply for one enterprise zone encompassing up to six areas of up to 355 acres each.
Assuming the House passes the measure and the Governor signs it, a state panel would choose the winners, and tax exemptions would start on Jan. 1, 1997.
Governor Engler said today that he believed that the key to revitalizing areas turned on tax credits, because the country had unsuccessfully "tried social spending for more than two decades."
Using tax credits is also cheaper. Senator Posthumus said the Senate plan was unlikely to remove much revenue from the Governor's $28 billion budget.
But Grand Rapids, which may apply for one of the zones, estimated that it would lose $1 million a year in local taxes if it is chosen, said Doug Rothwell, chief executive officer of the Michigan Jobs Commission.
While Senate Republicans overwhelming favored the plan, Democrats split evenly on the main bill in the package. Eight favored it; eight opposed it.
"The very poor wouldn't be paying very much in income taxes anyway," said Philip J. D'Anieri, a spokesman for Senator John D. Cherry Jr., the minority leader of the Michigan Senate.
As for the fate of the bill, Mr. D'Anieri said, "Republicans are in control, the Governor has put a high priority on it, so it is likely to pass the House."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MICHIGAN SENATE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN SENATE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; DETROIT (MICH); UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; RURAL AREAS; URBAN AREAS; ENTERPRISE ZONES; INCOME TAX; PROPERTY TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); TRENDS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); INCOME TAX (70%); 

PERSON: ENGLER, JOHN (GOV) ; MEREDITH, ROBYN JOHN BRYANT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



673 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-8
 
STEP BACK FOR RUSSIAN REFORM
President Boris N. Yeltsin chose a Soviet-schooled industrialist to be Russia's top economic official, a sign of his growing disenchantment with economic reform. A1
 
C.I.A. FACES OFF WITH IRAN
In an unusual operation conceived by Speaker Newt Gingrich, the Central Intelligence Agency will mount an $18 million covert action against Iran, which has announced its own $20 million counteroffensive. A1
 
FIGHTING POLYGAMY IN FRANCE
African women living in France have begun fighting polygamy, a tradition imported by some immigrants, and the French Government is also taking a stand. A1
 
STRUGGLE FOR THE CENTER IN SPAIN
Spain's conservative opposition party is trying to recast itself as moderate, part of the election strategy of Jose Maria Aznar, who would like to be Prime Minister. A3
 
PUTTING BOSNIA BACK TOGETHER
American soldiers say they have been shocked by the level of destruction in Bosnia, where the World Bank says it will take at least $5 billion over three years to put things back together. A3
 
Parties in Poland fail to choose a new Prime Minister. A4
 
London Journal: All good things burn out, even a British satire. A4
 
National A10-21
 
TEMPORARY SPENDING DEAL
House Republicans and the White House agreed on a deal to provide 45 days of temporary spending for parts of the Government and to free enough money to allow most foreign aid programs to continue for the rest of the year. A1
 
CASH SWELLS MUTUAL FUNDS
Investors put almost $118 billion into stock mutual funds last year, 31 percent more than the old record, which was set in 1993. The new money has helped fuel an extraordinary bull market in stocks. A1
 
EASING OFF THE ENVIRONMENT
Republicans are increasingly worried that by proposing deep cuts for environmental programs, they are doing deeper political damage to the party. A1
 
A MYSTERY IN PUERTO RICO
Puerto Rico is abuzz with tales of the mysterious "chupacabras," or goat-sucker, named after the first animals that were reported to have been drained of blood. A10
 
MICHIGAN ENTERPRISE ZONES
The Michigan Senate passed a bill to abolish all state and local income and property taxes in eight economic development areas. A10
 
DISPARITIES IN SMOKING
The Federal Government's first state-by-state profile of the nation's tobacco use and its economic penalty highlighted disparities in some sections of the country. A10
 
FORBES BROADENS HIS MESSAGE
Steve Forbes has recast the message of his Presidential campaign beyond his signature issue of a flat tax and now emphasizes that he is a Washington outsider. A20
 
DOLE FIGHTS BACK
Senator Bob Dole fought back against critics who said that his lackluster response to President Clinton's State of the Union Message indicated a weak candidate who would be a poor standard bearer against the President. A20
 
CLINTON PARTNER TIPPED OFF
The former regulator at the center of several Whitewater investigations said she had tipped off Governor Clinton's office that Federal officials were about to force the removal of his business partner from a savings association. A21
 
Metro Report B1-7
 
CUTS, BUT NOT IN POLICE PATROLS
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani pledged yesterday that the Police Department would not reduce the number of officers patrolling New York City's streets and subways or the level of public safety, even as he acknowledged that he was considering a reduction of 1,000 officers to help balance the city's budget. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-28
 
A call to hounds. C1
 
Attention seeking at the Sundance Film Festival. C1
 
"In Cold Blood," at the New-York Historical Society. C1
 
For Children C19
 
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
 
"King Lear." C3
 
"Mata Hari." C16
 
Film: "Angela." C12
 
"Angels and Insects." C6
 
"The Sexual Life of the Belgians." C18
 
"Once Upon a Time . . . When We Were Colored." C17
 
"Bed of Roses." C6
 
"Screamers." C23
 
Dance: City Ballet. C21
 
RestaurantsC22
 
Art: "The Olmec World." C5
 
Exploring Germanness. C3
 
Inside Art C24
 
Art in Review C25
 
Echoes of Surrealists. C28
 
Television: TV Weekend B17
 
Home Video B17
 
Sports B10-16
 
Basketball: Kenny Anderson gets set for return. B11
 
Columns: Berkow on the Bulls and the Rockets. B11
 
Football: Cowboys face another controversy. B11
 
Hockey: Campbell not impressed with Ranger streak. B16
 
Tennis: Chang defeats Agassi in Australia. B11
 
Obituaries B9
 
Noel Johnson, elderly marathon runner who inspired America.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
Common sense on the budget.
 
Albany's anti-city vote.
 
A new obstacle in Ireland.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: The death charter.
 
Bob Herbert: Unholy alliance in Nigeria.
 
Anthony Lewis: Seize the day.
 
Homero Aridjis and Lincoln P. Brower: Twilight of the monarchs.
 
Neediest Cases B3
 
Chronicle B6
 
Crossword C25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); POLAND (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); POLAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS EMERGING MARKETS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



674 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Speech Oversold Health of Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Although I give President Clinton high marks for the content of his State of the Union address, I disagree with his statement that "our economy is the healthiest it has been in three decades." However necessary, there is a price to be paid for severe downsizing at every level -- corporate, government and military. We may be poised for recession. 
 If the most recent statistic of 5.6 percent unemployment was a true measure of joblessness, the President's conclusion might have some validity. But that figure, based as it is on an extrapolation of 12,000 phone calls each month, is flawed.
The more reliable figure is the number of weekly new unemployment claims, which is a total measurement. For the second half of 1995 it will be in excess of 9.5 million.
There are 7.6 million people who hold multiple jobs and are counted twice. Manufacturing jobs increased by 504,000 in 1994 but decreased by 201,000 the first 11 months of 1995. Inventories have risen in all but one of the past 19 months. The leading indicators are negative, with downsizing continuing unabated.
We need a huge program of necessary job creation. Enlightened selfishness demands that we enlarge the consumer and taxpaying base, which will decrease our costs for unemployment benefits and welfare. This is sound economics.
Myriad projects cry out for action. We must restore our deteriorating infrastructure, elevate our second-class educational system, accelerate the building of low-cost housing and put even more than 100,000 police officers on the street.
Should a recession hit, forget about balancing the budget in seven years. We are wasting billions in job retraining if the jobs are not there.
In addition to necessary job creation being sound economics, we get the fringe benefit of restoring dignity to the vast army of the unemployed.
 
HERBERT BARCHOFF
New York, Jan. 24, 1996
 
The writer served on President Truman's Council of Economic Advisers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ARMIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARCHOFF, HERBERT BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



675 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Speech Oversold Health of Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Senator Bob Dole and his fellow Republicans picture themselves as the wave of the future, but their vision is a rose-tinted past shorn of barbarities. 
 What is that "self-reliance" Mr. Dole plugged in his speech when he evoked his Depression-era boyhood in Russell, Kan.? A return to family farms (without subsidies, of course) before they were taken over by the agribusiness that now contributes mightily to his party?
To little shops before the malls killed them off? To a prairie destroyed by development? To hunting on the old frontier? To a time before the national and international changes we must face? To working for starvation wages without safety, health care, security now or later or anything else that makes life decent?
Mr. Dole proclaims "the end of the welfare state," but all he can offer in its place is an inward-looking and fear-mongering "ill-fare state" without grace or joy or compassion; it would give us a United States chopped into 50 pieces that compete over which can do the least for its citizens.
 
JOHN E. ULLMANN
Hempstead, L.I., Jan. 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ULLMANN, JOHN E BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



676 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Metro Digest

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
Mayor Weighs Police Cuts
 Mayor Giuliani pledged that the Police Department would not reduce the number of officers patrolling New York City's streets and subways even as he acknowledged that he was considering a reduction of 1,000 officers. [Page A1.]
 
 Police officials said departmental improvements would ease the effect of a reduction in officers. [B3.]
 
Taxi Fare Increase Approved
 New York City's taxi commission approved a 20 percent fare increase and imposed the first mandatory age limit for yellow cabs, over the protests of drivers who said that what the panel was giving with one hand, it was taking with the other. [B1.]
 
 A judge ruled that there was insufficient evidence to support the allegation that the city's Taxi and Limousine chairman was "house counsel" for a murderous drug gang. [B4.]
 
When Arafat Outshines G.O.P.
 During the recent election for chief executive of the new Palestinian government, Yasir Arafat recognized that he had to give at least an appearance of tolerance for competition. Which is more than you can say about leaders of the Republican apparatus in New York. NYC by Clyde Haberman. [B1.]
 
Spring Bringing Fees at Garden
 In response to a steep drop in public financing and rising operating costs, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden will begin charging admission for the first time in March. [B4.]
 
New Chief for Transit Authority
 The chief of the transit system in Washington has accepted the top job at the New York City Transit Authority, a high-ranking New York transit official said last night, taking the helm at a time of deep cuts and uncertain capital projects. [B4.]
 
Stepfather Charged in Beating
 The stepfather of 6-year-old Elisa Izquierdo was charged with slamming her head against a wall weeks before her death. As the new indictment was announced, echoes of Elisa's case continued to sound through the city, with yet another report criticizing the city's child welfare agency and a new hearing into the system's failings. [B6.]
 
Rifkin Apologizes for Murders
 At a sentencing hearing in Queens, Joel Rifkin, who has admitted killing 17 women, said he was sorry and told the families of his victims that he had never understood just what it was that drove him to murder. "You all think that I am nothing but a monster, and you are right." [B6.]
 
Man in Needle Incident 'Unfit'
 Prosecutors will not challenge psychiatric findings that Angel Coro, the man charged with jabbing a 6-year-old subway rider with a hypodermic needle, is incompetent to stand trial. Mr. Coro, 51, was declared unfit at a hearing in a Manhattan court. [B7.]
 
REGION
 
Sharpe Aide Is Indicted
 A Federal grand jury charged Newark Mayor Sharpe James's closest aide today with accepting bribes in exchange for city contracts. He is the highest-ranking official to be indicted in the two-year-old investigation into corruption in Newark. [B1.]
 
Rise in Tax Revenues Expected
 Despite a shortfall in some tax revenues this year and recent signs that the New Jersey economy has stalled, the Whitman administration projected moderate economic growth and a rise in state tax revenues in the coming year. [B5.]
 
A Clean Airport Building
 While the $120 million International Arrivals Facility, which formally opened this week at Newark Airport, is not architecturally ambitious, it is unquestionably one of the cleanest airport buildings in the world, both hygienically and esthetically. [B1.]
 
Towers Sale Called Feasible
 A study commissioned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey concludes that selling the World Trade Center is feasible. But Deputy Mayor John S. Dyson said that tax-rate figures used in the study, by Chemical Bank, were seriously flawed. [B5.]
 
Forest Plan Is Derailed
 A plan to sell federally owned grasslands in the Oklahoma Panhandle to help finance the purchase of a huge tract of wilderness property straddling New York and New Jersey has been derailed because of opposition in Oklahoma. [B5.]
 
Record Fund-Raising at Cornell
 Cornell University has completed the largest fund-raising campaign in the history of higher education, raising $1.5 billion in five years. [B7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); MURDER (88%); INDICTMENTS (88%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); EVIDENCE (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); GRAND JURY (74%); LITIGATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BRIBERY (73%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); SENTENCING (69%); FAMILY (69%); JUDGES (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); STEPPARENTS (63%); PSYCHIATRY (60%); CHILD WELFARE (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



677 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: The Garden In Brooklyn Plans to Levy Entrance Fee

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN 

 BODY:
In response to a steep drop in public financing and rising operating costs, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the 52-acre emerald expanse in the heart of the city's most populous borough, will begin charging admission for the first time in March.
The decision by the garden, among the last of New York City's cultural institutions to charge an entrance fee, comes a year and a half after the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx began charging a similar fee and at a time when many institutions are increasing existing fees. 
 Beginning March 15, adults will be required to pay $3, senior citizens and students $1.50 and children 6 to 16 50 cents. Admission to the garden, a meticulously groomed triangle near Prospect Park, has been free since it opened in 1910 on the site of a former ash dump.
It has since become the most popular horticultural attraction in the region, attracting more than 900,000 visitors last year with displays of 12,000 kinds of plants, including a grove of cherry trees that the American Institute of Architects calls the nation's best. Well over three-quarters of its visitors live in the city, though busloads of foreign tourists are becoming common.
Judith D. Zuk, president of the private nonprofit garden, said that the decision was reached after a 10-month study of the experiences of other cultural institutions. She estimated that even if the garden loses 10 to 15 percent of its visitors, the new fees will add at least $500,000 a year to a budget that now totals $9.1 million.
"It did not seem at all possible to have a balanced budget and maintain the quality of the garden, much less move into new initiatives," Ms. Zuk said. "And it would be a shame for this organization to remain static."
Five years ago, city and state funds accounted for nearly 50 percent of the garden's operating budget; today, Ms. Zuk said, the total is 38 percent. At the same time, private contributions have increased -- by 25 percent last year, to $2.5 million -- though Ms. Zuk said they have not kept pace with rising costs.
Remaining revenue comes from sales of items like gifts and gardening supplies. Even an additional $600,000 in annual revenues from catering functions on the grounds has not proved sufficient, she said.
Aside from inflation and rising maintenance expenses, higher costs are a result of the garden's attempts to play a more vigorous educational role. More than 90,000 children now take part in programs like the long-beloved Children's Garden, where they learn about plants and the environment with hands-on gardening. The Botanic Garden's scientific effort, while far smaller than that of the Bronx garden, is also expanding. Research projects, led by an effort to catalogue every plant in the metropolitan area, will cost $368,000 this year, the most the garden has spent on a scientific endeavor.
Slightly sweetening the entrance fee is a new policy in which the garden will stop charging 50 cents to enter the popular Japanese garden, and officials promise they will not mimic the larger garden in the Bronx and charge extra for attractions within the garden. This is partly because of their experience with the Steinhardt Conservatory, a tropical, temperate and desert habitat that opened in 1988. Entrance cost an additional $2. Many visitors declined to enter the building, and the fee was rescinded.
Part of the problem, Ms. Zuk said, was that "you could look in the windows."
Ms. Zuk contended that the Brooklyn garden remains a bargain, pointing to a $6.75 charge at the Bronx Zoo and $4 at Wave Hill, the historic Bronx mansion overlooking the Hudson River. The American Museum of Natural History and the Metropolitan Museum of Art have both recently increased their recommended entrance fees, to $7 for adults. The suggested contribution to the Natural History Museum went up $1 last summer, after a $1 increase the year before. Some 50 to 70 percent of visitors pay the suggested amounts.
Ms. Zuk said the actual cost to the garden of each visitor is nearly $10, so visits remain subsidized. In addition, the garden will be free on Tuesdays, and a special admission rate of $15 to $18 a year will be available to nearby residents.
The hope is that the charges will spur membership, something other cultural institutions have experienced after initiating charges, Ms. Zuk said. The Bronx garden had feared attendance would go down when it instituted its $3 fee, but it remained steady at 500,000 at year, even as its Victorian conservatory and other attractions were closed for renovations.
At the Brooklyn garden this week, the reaction to the impending fee was mixed. "I think this is so terrible," said Charles Zanghi, a retired firefighter who grew up in Brooklyn and visits three or four times a year to view the bonsai tree collection.
His friend, Vincent Graziosa, who lives in Staten Island, disagreed. "You may object, but $3?," he said. "Frankly, I think it's worth it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visitors to the Steinhardt Conservatory, at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, will not pay additional fees. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)
 
Map of Brooklyn highlighting the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (55%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (57%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (57%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (55%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (57%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (57%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (55%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) BOTANICAL GARDENS (90%); GARDENING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HORTICULTURE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (55%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS JUDITH D ZUK (92%); BROOKLYN PLANS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



678 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 26, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Winners and Losers in the Rohatyn Sweepstakes;
Friends in High Places Sing Banker's Praises

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
With Felix G. Rohatyn, the New York investment banker, now officially on the list of those being considered for vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, a rare bit of public lobbying is under way on his behalf.
The White House has confirmed published reports that Mr. Rohatyn, a managing director of Lazard Freres & Company, is a possible candidate for the vice chairmanship, second in command to Alan Greenspan, the chairman. Mr. Rohatyn has declined to comment, but friends say he has made clear to them that he wants the job, and they gave out names of chieftains of major corporations who, if approached, would speak publicly on Mr. Rohatyn's behalf. 
 A half-dozen did. All are frequently consulted by the White House on policy matters, so their words carry weight. They praised the 67-year-old Mr. Rohatyn as a friend who would push for greater economic growth, sharing their view that this is possible without running the risk of higher inflation. They see Mr. Rohatyn as a strong voice for lowering interest rates a bit to stimulate the economy, replacing Alan S. Blinder, the outgoing vice chairman, who has been the leader of that camp at the central bank.
"Mr. Rohatyn's views on growth would add an important perspective to the Fed's deliberations," said Dana G. Mead, chairman of Tenneco Inc., and the current chairman of the National Association of Manufacturers. "Many businessmen I know, and I am not speaking for the N.A.M., would support the nomination, Democrats and Republicans alike."
But political obstacles could emerge that could sink Mr. Rohatyn as a candidate almost as quickly as his name arose last week. He would withdraw his name, friends say, if Mr. Greenspan did not favor Mr. Rohatyn as vice chairman, or if Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin opposed the candidacy. Both are New Yorkers like Mr. Rohatyn, friends of his for years. Neither, however, has said a word about the Rohatyn candidacy.
Senate confirmation could also be a problem. Mr. Rohatyn would have to go before the Senate Banking Committee, headed by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, whom Mr. Rohatyn opposed for re-election in 1992. Still, the Administration is widely expected to grease the way by linking its nominee for vice chairman to Mr. Greenspan's reappointment as chairman. Mr. Greenspan, a Republican, comes up for reappointment in March. He is highly regarded by Senate Republicans.
The corporate support emerged publicly in interviews yesterday from the likes of Robert Crandall, chairman of American Airlines; Lawrence A. Bossidy, chairman of Allied Signal Inc.; Paul O'Neill, chairman of Aluminum Corporation of America, and William Stier, chairman of Pfizer Inc. All see Mr. Rohatyn as he has described himself in speeches and articles: favoring stronger economic growth, but also balanced budgets and low inflation, standard goals of central bankers.
"If he were to become President Clinton's nominee, I would not hesitate to lobby for him," said Mr. Stier of Pfizer, the big pharmaceutical company where Mr. Rohatyn is a director. "He favors more growth for the economy, but it has to be done responsibly."
Mr. Rohatyn, who played such a huge role in guiding New York City through what amounted to bankruptcy in the mid-1970's, has been seeking a major public service job as a finale to a 46-year career as an investment banker. He had been a contender to be Mr. Clinton's first Treasury Secretary, a post that went to Lloyd Bentsen.
And while any Fed vice chairman operates in the shadows of the chairman, Mr. Rohatyn is known abroad and might envision himself as the Fed official who speaks at international gatherings, a role now exercised mainly by Mr. Greenspan along with Mr. Blinder. If Mr. Clinton were to lose the election, Mr. Rohatyn might emerge as one of the more influential Democratic policy makers left in Washington.
One senior Administration official, asked why Mr. Rohatyn would even want the Fed vice chairmanship, said: "I think he sees it as his valedictory. He may be staring at the prospect of nothing else, and this may look better by comparison."
If nominated and confirmed, he would have a tenured four-year term, as Mr. Clinton's third appointment to the Federal Reserve. Mr. Blinder, who announced last week that he would not seek reappointment, was the first. Janet L. Yellen was the second; she is an economist on leave from the University of California at Berkeley.
Having Mr. Rohatyn on the Fed for the next four years would please Mr. Crandall at American Airlines. "We need a guy like Felix, who says we have to avoid inflation, but at the same time says we have to find ways to encourage faster economic growth to meet our social commitments and create jobs."
Some executives, however, were reluctant to comment, including John Snow, chairman of the CSX Corporation, who currently leads the Business Roundtable, a group including chief executives of 200 giant corporations.
Other business groups do not necessarily see Mr. Rohatyn as their spokesman. The hope of the United States Chamber of Commerce is that a "traditional businessman" more representative of its members, would be named, said Martin Regalia, chief economist of the group. Mr. Rohatyn, he said, "is someone with a Wall Street background and not someone we would lobby for."
 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 2, 1996, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about support from business executives for the candidacy of Felix G. Rohatyn, the New York investment banker, for the vice chairmanship of the Federal Reserve misspelled the surname of one executive, the chairman of Pfizer Inc. He is William C. Steere Jr., not Stier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TEN (NYSE) (67%); AAI (ASX) (60%); AA (NYSE) (60%); PFZ (LSE) (60%); PFE (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (67%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (60%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (60%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (60%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (60%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; LAZARD FRERES & CO ; SENATE (US) LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (72%); TENNECO INC (67%); ALCOA INC (60%); PFIZER INC (60%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; LAZARD FRERES & CO ; SENATE (US) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS ; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INFLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); SWEEPSTAKES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); BUDGETS (68%); INTEREST RATES (52%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; ROHATYN, FELIX G; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BLINDER, ALAN S ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1996



679 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Yeltsin Principles?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You say of Boris N. Yeltsin (editorial, Jan. 17) that running for a second term as President of Russia would cause him to "betray his principles and ability to provide enlightened leadership." 
 Since when has Mr. Yeltsin had principles? Since he betrayed his country and sabotaged the Union treaty?
Since he shelled his own Parliament? Since he waged an unnecessary and brutal war on Chechnya?
Perhaps you have him confused with the one who did provide enlightened leadership, who ended the cold war, let Eastern Europe go, released us from the threat of nuclear annihilation, and created a new treaty for the former Soviet states that would have allowed for an economic union, not military dictatorship.
Oh, yes -- Mikhail Gorbachev. Seems he was the one with the ability to provide enlightened leadership.
 
SHEILA M. KORTLUCKE
Lawrence, Kan., Jan. 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (76%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); KANSAS, USA (76%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



680 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Fed Watchers See a Shave for Rates

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
To most economists looking at signs of a slowing economy and well-subdued inflation, the question on interest rates boils down to this: Why not cut?
And while many economists expect just that, nothing is ever simple with the Federal Reserve. The Fed approaches a meeting of its top interest-rate committee next week against a backdrop of several unusual factors. There's the budget impasse, and the disruption in economic statistics caused by the Government shutdown. Just ahead lie some key decisions on the Fed leadership: While President Clinton is widely expected to reappoint its chairman, Alan Greenspan, to a third four-year term, there are two vacancies on the seven-member governing board. And even the Fed is aware that this an election year. 
 The majority view among Fed-watchers is that the caution lights flashing on the economy recently will lead the Fed to shave another quarter of a percentage point off the key Federal funds rate next week. Not only is inflation docile, the argument goes, but the Fed faces more risk -- and potential election-year criticism -- if it lets the economy falter than if it gives it a little more juice.
Since last summer, the Fed "has been looking for windows of opportunity to make small adjustments to keep the economy growing, not too fast and not too slow," said Lyle E. Gramley, a former Fed governor. "I think that window is once again open."
But John P. LaWare, who retired as a Fed governor last spring, said he thought the economy was "a little bit stronger" than many other analysts do. Consequently, he said, he would be inclined to "stand pat" at this point.
Mr. LaWare said he also thought that "while there will be a lot of political pressure to lower interest rates and stimulate the economy in an election year," a majority of his former colleagues on the Fed's top policy committee might "be pretty much of my mind."
Most analysts estimate that economic growth slipped to a rate of about 2 percent in 1995's fourth quarter, from 3.2 percent in the previous three months, and that disruptions from severe weather have since pushed it even lower.
But Mr. LaWare, now vice chairman of the Secura Group, a Washington-based consulting firm, said he believed the economy could regain enough footing without an interest-rate cut to grow at 2 percent to 2.5 percent this year. That is a pace, he said, that most Fed members would consider "very satisfactory" and "not likely to rekindle any inflationary pressures."
Some analysts also say the release of transcripts this week from a Fed meeting in October 1990 could increase the pressure on Mr. Greenspan to push for a rate cut next week, perhaps in part to avoid repeating an embarrassing misreading.
In that closed-door meeting, Mr. Greenspan, resisted a cut in rates by telling other board members that "at the moment, it isn't raining," adding, "The economy has not yet slipped into a recession."
But Government officials later determined that a recession had actually begun three months earlier. And Paul L. Kasriel, the chief economist at the Northern Trust Company, a Chicago bank, said he did not think Mr. Greenspan "would want to risk doing that again."
Still, most economists give Mr. Greenspan reasonably high marks for guiding the economy since then. The Fed's rate-setting committee raised its most important rate, the Federal funds rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans, seven times as the economy grew rapidly in 1994 and early 1995.
Since last summer, it has trimmed that rate twice, by a quarter of a percentage point each time, bringing it to 5.5 percent. The last cut came on Dec. 19, a day after the stock market fell 101 points and needed reassurance to resume its record-setting climb.
Only a handful of economists are worried about a recession now. But many say Government figures released over the last two weeks depict an economy in need of some rejuvenation. And most are betting on another tiny quarter-point cut that would drop the funds rate to 5.25 percent, making credit a little cheaper for consumers and business.
Some also think the Fed might whittle the discount rate, which it charges on its own short-term loans to banks, to 5 percent from 5.25 percent.
To these economists, the case for giving the economy a spark is fairly compelling. While inflation has remained at a minimal 2 to 3 percent, the recent Government and industry statistics, however late and incomplete, show that the economy is weakening by most measures.
"I think all the risks are that the economy is going to be weaker, not stronger," Mr. Kasriel said. Given the normal lag time of six months or more for Fed rate cuts to have an impact on the economy, he added that he thought the Fed would cut the funds rate by a quarter-point next week so it could be "on the sidelines as we move into the second half of an election year."
Others would like to see the Fed take even firmer action. Worried about slowing auto sales, Robert J. Eaton, the chairman and chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation, said last week that he thought that the Fed needed to cut the funds rate by at least half a percentage point.
But even some analysts who advocate a rate cut say the economy is still fundamentally healthy.
Mr. Gramley, who served on the Fed board in the early 1980's and is now a consulting economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, said he expected the Fed to cut both the funds and the discount rate by one-quarter of a point next week to keep the economy growing at 2 percent "or a little better."
But noting that stock prices are still soaring, the dollar has strengthened and American exports have been booming despite sluggish economic growth overseas, he added, "I don't really think an easing is critical at this point."
Other analysts, including Donald J. Fine of Chase Securities Inc. in New York, think the Fed could wait until it meets again in March before deciding to cut rates.
But whatever happens, nearly everyone agrees it will largely be decided by Mr. Greenspan, the Reagan Administration appointee who has made himself seem indispensable to both Democrats and Republicans in his eight and a half years of watching over the economy.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "About to Move?" shows the Federal funds rate from 1993 to 1995.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); STATISTICS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); WEATHER (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



681 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Bernard Rosenberg, 72, Author And a Professor of Sociology

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Bernard Rosenberg, distinguished professor emeritus of sociology at City College and the City University Graduate Center and a contributing editor of the intellectual journal Dissent from its inception, died on Thursday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in the Bronx. Professor Rosenberg, who lived on the East Side of Manhattan, was 72.
His daughter Deena said the cause was congestive heart failure. 
 The author, co-author or editor of more than 20 books on subjects from Thorstein Veblen to juvenile delinquency to Broadway musicals, Professor Rosenberg also wrote scores of articles and essays about American politics, American Jewry and mass culture.
In his political writings, he brought his eclectic knowledge and corrosive wit to bear on anti-democratic institutions. On the subject of American Jewry, he remained optimistic about the future of the Jewish people, despite extensive assimilation. In his articles on mass culture, as in his "Mass Culture: The Popular Arts in America," the pioneering 1957 book he wrote with D. M. White, he asserted strenuously that culture need not be lowered to reach a wide audience.
His "Sociological Theory: A Book of Readings," compiled with L. A. Coser and published and republished beginning in 1957, was a standard text. Professor Rosenberg was also the co-author of several works on the problems of the young, including "Work, Youth and Unemployment" (1968) and "The Varieties of Delinquent Experience" (1969). From 1964 to 1967, when Lyndon B. Johnson was in the White House, Professor Rosenberg was a member of the President's Commission on Juvenile Delinquency.
At the time of his death, he was at work on two books: one was a collection of his essays; the other, "In Defense of Culture," focused on the cultural roots of behavior, norms, customs, languages and artistic forms of expression.
Professor Rosenberg, who retired in 1992, was an instructor at Brandeis University in 1954 when Dissent was founded and he began working with Irving Howe and other editors. Professor Rosenberg remained a contributing editor until his death.
He was born in Detroit in 1923, received a bachelor of arts degree from the University of Michigan in 1945, a master's degree in social science from the New School for Social Research in 1947 and a doctorate from the New School in 1949. In 1946, he did graduate work in sociology with the eminent Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget.
Professor Rosenberg began his teaching career at Wayne University in 1948 and came to the City University system in 1956. He became a professor there in 1967.
Besides his wife of 47 years, the former Sarah Greenspan, Professor Rosenberg is survived by his son, Daniel, and his daughters, Rebecca and Deena, all of Manhattan; a sister, Leona Kutlov of Detroit and a grandchild.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (62%); CITY UNIVERSITY GRADUATE CENTER (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (62%); CITY UNIVERSITY GRADUATE CENTER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); POLITICS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); HEART DISEASE (56%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (56%); MUSICAL THEATER (55%); MUSIC (55%); 

PERSON: ROSENBERG, BERNARD (PROF) BERNARD ROSENBERG (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



682 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: A Humane Plan for Iraq

 BODY:
Iraq's increasingly desperate economic and diplomatic isolation seems to have softened Saddam Hussein's resistance to a humanitarian plan for feeding his country's hungry children. Baghdad has now agreed to talk with the United Nations about carrying out an American-sponsored resolution that would allow Iraq to sell $2 billion worth of oil over the next six months to help finance purchases of food and medicine.
It is still not clear whether the Iraqi dictator is willing to accept the resolution's reasonable conditions. He should, without further delay. Mr. Hussein's long refusal to consider the plan has made Iraq's own citizens, especially its children, the longest-suffering victims of the Persian Gulf war. 
 The U.N. resolution is a strictly humanitarian arrangement, separate from the issue of allowing Iraq to resume unfettered oil exports once it fully complies with U.N. arms control requirements.
Before the Persian Gulf war, Iraq exported some three million barrels of oil a day. That would be worth about $10 billion over six months at today's prices. The U.N. resolution authorizes sales at only one-fifth that level. Under the resolution 30 percent of the funds would be used to compensate Kuwait and other victims of Iraqi aggression. Relatively modest sums would also be diverted to pay the costs of U.N. arms inspection programs and to compensate Turkey for use of its oil pipeline. The remainder, some $1.3 billion, would go to buy food, medicine and other essential civilian goods for Iraq.
Several factors propelled Iraq to the table. Damaging disclosures by a high-level defector last summer made it evident that, at least until very recently, Iraq has been concealing evidence from U.N. arms inspectors and continuing to work on prohibited weapons programs. That eliminated any chances that the Security Council might lift sanctions completely anytime soon.
Meanwhile Jordan, which had been Iraq's most sympathetic neighbor and its most important conduit for remaining trade, turned sharply cooler. Finally, the cumulative effects of more than five years of broad international sanctions have produced acute food and medicine shortages in Iraq.
Even a limited return of Iraq to saturated world oil markets would cause problems for other oil producers, including such financially pressed countries as Saudi Arabia and Mexico, as prices fell in response to increased supply. Yet the overriding consideration must be humanitarian relief for suffering Iraqi innocents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FOOD; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); DESERT STORM (79%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (79%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); DRUG SHORTAGES (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (68%); EVIDENCE (50%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



683 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Panel Clears Plan to Enlarge Taxicab Fleet

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE 

 BODY:
City Council members cleared the way yesterday for the addition of 400 new medallion cabs, the first increase in New York's fleet of yellow taxis since 1937.
The measure, proposed last year by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani as a way of helping balance the budget, will raise the number of medallions -- the shields mounted on the hoods of all legal yellow cabs -- to 12,187, an increase of 3.4 percent. 
 For six decades, the only way to acquire a medallion has been to buy it from a previous owner, and the scarcity has helped drive the price up to an average of $200,000. But the 400 new ones will be sold at auction, with the proceeds going to the city.
The sale of the new turquoise medallions, included in the budget for the fiscal year that started July 1, was approved by the City Council's Transportation Committee yesterday and is expected to win easy approval from the full Council. The last hurdles to its passage appeared to be resolved when the committee's chairman, Councilman Noach Dear of Brooklyn, said the Giuliani administration had addressed several concerns he had about the plan.
City officials say that besides bringing $80 million into the city's coffers, the sale will also improve taxi service in the city, particularly in the boroughs outside Manhattan. While the city's population has grown about 6 percent since 1937, no new medallions have been issued.
In April the first 100 medallions will be sold to the highest bidders. Forty will be reserved for individuals with a minimum bid of $160,000. The other 60 will be awarded to fleet owners and that minimum bid has been set at $190,000.
"This is a step in the right direction," said Mayor Giuliani. "It will help provide more effective taxi service throughout the city, because we've had too few taxis."
But the sale has exposed a rift between the owners of large, long-established taxi fleets, who do not oppose the move, and smaller operators, who say they will be badly hurt. The small operators are not particularly concerned about increased competition for fares -- they say there will still be plenty of business to go around -- but they fear the new medallions will drive down the value of their medallions.
"We're talking about individuals who may have spent their entire life in the taxi industry and may want to retire," said Robert Familant, president of the Taxicab Service Association, which represents 40 percent of the small medallion owners. "We don't want those folks to be in competition with the city" when they want to sell their medallions, he said.
Others said that the increase is much too small to have an impact on the price of the medallion.
"Unfortunately, a medallion is absurdly priced," said Edward Rogoff, a management professor at Baruch College, who studies the taxi industry. "For the last 50 years, it's been a great investment."
In 1937, after a decade of oversupply, city officials thought that there would never be a need for more taxis and set a ceiling at 11,787. A series of fare cuts prompted 7,000 owners to return their medallions to the city in the 1930's, refusing to pay the $10 yearly licensing fee.
On Thursday, the Taxi and Limousine Commission approved a 20 percent fare increase. Beginning March 1, the charge for the first one-fifth of a mile will rise to $2 from $1.50, and each additional one-fifth of a mile will cost 30 cents, up from 25 cents. The night charge of 50 cents and the rate of 20 cents a minute stuck in traffic were unchanged.
Discussing the sale of new medallions, some taxi drivers and owners agreed yesterday that more taxis would improve service in Manhattan. But they said that it would not necessarily mean more yellow taxis outside Manhattan.
"It's a matter of economics," said Ronald Stoppelmann, president of the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, a coalition of 18 of the oldest and largest fleets, with 1,900 medallions among them. "People in the outer boroughs don't hail cabs as much."
But Christopher R. Lynn, the Chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, said that service outside Manhattan would be improved, because he plans to increase the issuing of summonses and other penalties to drivers who refuse to accept fares to the outer boroughs.
The proposal was presented to the committee for a hearing and a vote yesterday after Mr. Dear said his objections had been addressed. For one thing, the Taxi and Limousine Commission had softened some elements of a new rule, adopted along with the fare increase, that sets mandatory retirement ages for cabs. Mr. Dear said he also won some concessions on the timing of the planned medallion sales.
"I just wanted to make sure that some issues were resolved," he said yesterday. "It was a compromise. I'm pretty happy with it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald Stoppelmann president of the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, conferred with a lawyer, Howard Gerber, yesterday. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TAXICAB SERVICE ASSOCIATION (59%); CITY COUNCIL (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PIERRE, SD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; LICENSES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); CITIES (93%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); CITY LIFE (79%); POPULATION SIZE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); DRIVERS LICENSES (70%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PIERRE-PIERRE, GARRY RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



684 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS 

 BODY:
When the Rev. Harvey Cox, the Victor Thomas Professor of Religion at Harvard University, suggested in the Jan. 1 issue of The Nation magazine that fear and loathing of the religious right was pushing secular liberals into a self-defeating antagonism toward all religiously based arguments about public policy, he didn't have to wait long for a response.
"Is the American left hostile to religion?" asked Katha Pollitt, an associate editor and columnist for The Nation, a left-wing weekly. "I wish!" 
 While Professor Cox believes that secular liberals are tempted to rule religious appeals and imagery out of order in the political arena, Ms. Pollitt believes that the United States is drenched in religion ("Could a politician be elected if he admitted to being a nonbeliever?" she asks in the Jan. 22 issue). That drenching "goes for the so-called left as well," Ms. Pollitt says; witness, she adds, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, Michael Lerner and his Tikkun magazine, and feminist theology.
Professor Cox worries that the alliance that once existed between religious and secular liberals in the Populist movement, Progressivism, the civil rights struggle and the protest against the Vietnam War has fallen into disrepair.
Ms. Pollitt replies that secular liberals have no problem working with religious allies whenever their goals coincide: Planned Parenthood can join with the Roman Catholic bishops to combat "family caps" on welfare payments, and liberals do not hesitate to embrace the Pope if it suits their purposes.
While Professor Cox urges "let us welcome religious conservatives" into the political debate because "although they almost always advance the wrong answers, religious conservatives do often raise important questions," Ms. Pollitt cannot imagine what those questions would be: "Whether Judgment Day is coming sooner rather than later?"
Professor Cox holds that "the great religious traditions remain one of the few repositories of an alternative" to today's vision of the world as "an economic roller coaster propelled by a logic of infinite growth."
He sees religion as a reminder that humans "are finite creatures," as a seedbed of community and virtue and as an engine of both prophetic judgment and utopian vision. Religious imagery in public life, he writes, offers "a discourse that at its best can speak out powerfully against greed, ennui and coldness of heart."
Ms. Pollitt could not disagree more. For her, religion is "a farrago of authoritarian nonsense, misogyny and humble pie, the eternal enemy of human happiness and freedom."
One begins to suspect that this marriage cannot be saved.
Obviously what divides Professor Cox and Ms. Pollitt is temperament as much as theology.
Professor Cox is an inveterate yeasayer who has always spied the workings of God's grace (as well as the contours of the Social Gospel) in one cultural movement after another, from the pragmatic secularism of the Kennedy era to the carnival spirit of the counterculture and the worldwide growth of Pentecostalism. So, he asks, why not cast an appreciative eye at the Christian Coalition, or at least at the wider body of conservative believers who surround them?
He responded to Ms. Pollitt's onslaught with characteristic good humor. It was, he said, "pungently written."
Ms. Pollitt, on the other hand, is a born naysayer. With equal amounts of satisfaction and self-mockery, she recounts in her column how, by merely mentioning on the CNN television program "Crossfire" that she does not believe in God, she earned the title "Free-Thought Heroine of 1995" from the Freedom From Religion Foundation.
She is, in fact, a kind of conservative, relishing the role of unreconstructed defender of that old-time atheism. (One can imagine her singing, "It was good enough for Diderot, it's good enough for me.")
Aside from temperament, there are two points on which Professor Cox and Ms. Pollitt remain diametrically opposed. Are there, in fact, important questions raised by religious conservatives that should be discussed by secular liberals?
And is there enough overlap, or common language, in the discourse of believers and unbelievers to make a conversation possible, despite the differences in their starting points or fundamental premises?
The best way to address the first point might be by trying an example. Unfortunately, Professor Cox felt compelled to devote so much of his short article to trying to make clear that he was not a stalking horse for the religious right that he barely hinted at what those important questions might be.
As for the second point, Ms. Pollitt makes it clear that religious believers come so close to being alien creatures and speak a language of faith so untranslatable into her framework of secular reason that communication is well nigh hopeless.
The Nation reports a lively stream of mail, and so far it appears to be running in favor of the Free-Thought Heroine of 1995. The response she has been getting personally is even more favorable.
"Whenever I feel unloved," she said in a recent telephone interview, "I can always write another column assaulting religion, and I get all this fan mail."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NATION (MAGAZINE) HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATION (MAGAZINE) HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (97%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WRITERS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); POLITICS (69%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); VIETNAM WAR (66%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; COX, HARVEY (PROF); POLITT, KATHA JESSE JACKSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



685 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: A Boot Camp for G.O.P. Freshmen

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Jan. 26

 BODY:
The freshmen who marched into Washington at the head of the Republican revolution a year ago met here today for a midterm retreat, where they planned to lick their wounds from a year of battles and to gather strength for another charge at big government. Instead, they heard themselves lambasted by conservative hard-liners, whose visions made even the sternest among them blink.
A year has gone by and almost none of the ambitious Republican agenda has become law, speaker after speaker thundered this morning, as the freshmen and some sophomores listened, seemingly in shock. Others on the program said the Republicans should never have relented on their strategy of forcing the Federal Government to shut down to force President Clinton to accept the Republican budget. 
 "When you had the Government down, you should have left it down," Al Dunlap, a conservative who is the chief executive of the Scott Paper Company, told the Republican lawmakers at a midmorning meeting. The strategy was hurting Republicans in the polls, Mr. Dunlap acknowledged, but they still should have held fast.
"No job is worth having that isn't worth losing for doing the right thing," he said.
While those who spoke at the retreat did not mention Speaker Newt Gingrich by name, some of their anger was apparently directed at the Speaker, who has deferred action on issues unpopular with many lawmakers but dear to the hearts of conservatives, like term limits.
About 50 of the 73 Republican freshmen and 14 of the sophomores in the House arrived in Baltimore on Thursday evening for the two-day retreat, organized by two conservative groups, the Heritage Foundation, a research center, and Empower America, a public-policy organization. They brought in a number of conservatives, including William J. Bennett, the former Education Secretary and drug czar who is a founder of Empower America; Edwin J. Feulner Jr., president of the Heritage Foundation; Dr. Wade Horn, director of the National Fatherhood Initiative, and Ben Wattenberg, the syndicated columnist and moderator of the weekly public television program "Think Tank."
In many ways the experience for the freshmen was like a Marine boot camp -- they were being ripped apart from the outset by tough-talking drill instructors, but left with the notion that they are invincible.
"You haven't gone too far -- we've barely done anything yet," Mr. Bennett said in the keynote speech Thursday night. "You've just started this thing. They will talk about how harsh you are and how mean you are, and you've just got to hold your ground."
With Democrats holding their own in the Senate and Mr. Clinton proving wilier than the Republicans had anticipated, the heady times they enjoyed in the first 100 days of the 104th Congress, when they began to enact their Contract with America, has given way to near gloom during the budget battle.
"A lot of people came in with unrealistic expectations on what could be accomplished," said Representative Phil English, a freshman from Pennsylvania.
Another freshman, Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, said: "I think the class, over all, is still optimistic. But the dose of reality is that I don't think everybody understood how masterful the President is and how well he does on the pulpit."
The sponsors billed the event as an opportunity for the Republican underclassmen to get away as a group from the rarefied political air of nearby Washington to exchange ideas and reset their agenda.
Beyond that, the gathering was an effort by conservative forces that are now fretting about the Congressional leadership of Senator Bob Dole and Mr. Gingrich to jump start the conservative political revolution, with the underclassmen again providing the spark.
"You have got to get a C.E.O. who believes in you," said Mr. Dunlap, the Scott Paper executive, "and it's not Bob Dole. Bob Dole is yesterday. The Senate is yesterday. You are tomorrow."
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader who in recent weeks has come to rival Mr. Gingrich as the conservative standard-bearer among the freshmen, paid an unannounced visit to the gathering to deliver a brief pep talk, telling his troops not to be discouraged by recent setbacks.
"Think of it as a video tape you are watching," Mr. Armey said, "and the most powerful man in the world, the President of the United States, has his finger on the pause button. But he can't hit the stop button."
Together, the 73-member freshman class and the 48 members of the sophomore class provide more than half of the 236 Republican votes in the House of Representatives.
A little more than a year ago, just after they were elected and before the 104th Congress opened with its Republican majority, the incoming freshmen gathered in the same place, the Lord Baltimore Hotel, to hear some of the same speakers lay out the battle plan for the conservative revolution and to sing praise for the wave of eager new foot soldiers. This year there was no escaping the somberness that hung over most of today's sessions.
"I keep hearing how we failed and how we are getting beat up," said Representative Sam Brownback, a freshman from Kansas. "I don't think we have."
Sandwiched between a prayer breakfast this morning and a bus ride back to Washington late this afternoon, the Republican underclassmen attended public sessions on "Government Downsizing," "Empowering Citizens" and "Strengthening America's Families and Culture." At each public meeting, they got healthy dosages of advice before retreating to private caucuses to ingest it in what a member called "quite candid" discussions.
The underclassmen said that they did not expect to draw up a complete new agenda here, but they were clearly leaving Baltimore with the intent of pushing their revolution onto battlefields that their leadership has so far avoided, including term limits.
"I would encourage you to be far bolder than you have been," Jim Miller, a budget director in the Reagan Administration and now the counselor for Citizens for a Sound Economy, told the lawmakers in the session on reducing government. "You have to cut back, cut back, cut back that monster."
Mr. Dunlap caused the room to fall silent when he said the Republicans should try to balance the Federal budget immediately instead of over the seven years sought by their leadership.
"You ought to do it in one year," said Mr. Dunlap, who was described in his biographical sketch as "Rambo in pinstripes" because of the way he cut costs and the staff at Scott Paper.
"A seven-year balanced budget will fail," he asserted. "In seven years the characters will change, the mood of the people will change."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Republican freshmen and sophomores in the House gathered in Baltimore for a two-day conference on how to revive their conservative agenda. They had plenty of reading material to keep them busy. (Scott Robinson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HERITAGE FOUNDATION; EMPOWER AMERICA SCOTT PAPER CO (69%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HERITAGE FOUNDATION; EMPOWER AMERICA HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY TRAINING (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); DRUG POLICY (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); TERM LIMITS (69%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); PAPER MFG (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



686 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1926 words

HEADLINE: Economic Surge in BangladeshUndercut by Political Turmoil

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: DHAKA, Bangladesh

 BODY:
Each morning, as the smoggy winter dawn begins to lift, thousands of women in colorful saris, some cradling infants, walk in a silent tide along the causeway leading from the Baridara slum district toward this city's growing network of garment factories.
In poorly lit tenement buildings, the women sit at rows of sewing machines making clothes -- socks and shorts, windbreakers and track suits -- that trade experts say reach one in every five American homes. Last year, factories employing more than a million Bangladeshi women recorded sales to the United States of $1.5 billion, more than 40 percent of Bangladesh's booming export earnings. 
 With 120 million people, Bangladesh ranks among the dozen poorest countries in the world, with a per capita income of less than $250 a year. But because of an economic awakening symbolized by the garment factories, which barely existed only a few years ago, the country is no longer the "international basket case" that Henry A. Kissinger called it more than 20 years ago.
Progress has been so startling since 1991, when 15 years of coups and military rule gave way to an elected civilian Government, that development experts have begun to speak of Bangladesh in new ways.
"In my view, there is a good possibility of Bangladesh becoming another Asian tiger," said Forrest E. Cookson, an American economist working on reforms at Bangladesh's central bank that are part of a broader transition to a free-market economy.
But Bangladesh's dream of emulating the economic booms of some of its neighbors is fragile.
Because politicians here -- in particular, the two women who head the Government and the main opposition party -- have been unable to rise above enmities that go back to Bangladesh's earliest days, after it emerged from the civil war that dismembered Pakistan in 1971, many fear the economic turnaround could be halted by new political turmoil.
A watershed was passed this month when the Government of Prime Minister Khaleda Zia decided to proceed with a general election despite a decision by all major opposition parties to boycott it. Balloting for the 300 elected seats in Parliament has been set for Feb. 15. If the election goes ahead, as is expected, Mrs. Zia's Bangladesh National Party, opposed in most seats only by splinter groups, is sure to return to power in a landslide.
Mrs. Zia's main political rival, Sheik Hasina Wazed, who heads the Awami League party that is the main opposition group, has vowed to disrupt the voting. And even if the voting goes ahead without violence, the Awami League has said it will continue with the protests it has led since leading an opposition walkout from Parliament in 1994. Politically inspired strikes have already shut down the economy for at least 35 days in the past year.
The political impasse centers on a dispute about how to conduct the election, which must take place before Feb. 22, when the Zia Government's five-year term expires. Saying they do not trust the Government to hold a fair vote, the opposition parties have demanded that Mrs. Zia hand over power before the election to a "caretaker" administration like the one that oversaw the 1991 vote. The Government has refused.
But many Bangladeshis say the election dispute is only a symptom of a deeper issue: whether Bangladesh can establish a stable democracy. Among pessimists, the debate goes further, to speculation on the causes of the instability. Some blame personal rivalries between Mrs. Zia and Mrs. Wazed; others say the rivalries are a symptom of an age-old fractiousness among ethnic Bengalis that is as much a part of their inheritance as their penchant for poetry and philosophical speculation.
"Sometimes I think we are just a politically immature people," said Mahfuz Anam, editor of The Daily Star, an English-language newspaper published in Dhaka, the capital.
Like many Bangladeshis, Mr. Anam worries that the politicians' squabbles could eventually provoke a new coup by the army, which held effective power from the first military coup in 1975 until the fall of the last military ruler, Gen. Hussain Mohammed Ershad, in 1990.
Much of the debate turns on the enmity between Mrs. Zia and Mrs. Wazed. Mrs. Zia, 50, is the widow of Ziaur Rahman, an army general who took power after the 1975 officers' plot that killed the country's first Prime Minister, Sheik Mujibur Rahman, and was himself assassinated in an aborted coup in 1981. Mrs. Wazed, 48, is Sheik Mujibur's daughter.
Friends of the two women say each harbors bitter feelings over the killings, with Mrs. Wazed convinced that General Zia had some involvement in her father's death, and Mrs. Zia suspicious of an Awami League link in her husband's killing.
Many who know both women say personal feelings have triumphed over wider considerations.
"The country is walking a tightrope, and it can go either way -- all the way to the other side, where there is prosperity for all, or into the abyss," said a Western envoy who tried to persuade Mrs. Zia and Mrs. Wazed to take part in the election on terms both could accept.
For the moment, many Bangladeshis are taking comfort from what they have heard about the army commander, Lieut. Gen. Abu Saleh Mohammed Nasim. Although he was appointed by Mrs. Zia in 1994, General Nasim has links to the Awami League through his role as a "freedom fighter" in Bangladesh's independence war in 1971, when the leader of the freedom struggle was Mrs. Wazed's father.
General Nasim has told diplomats that he wants to keep the army out of politics, but he can hardly be immune to the rising anger that many Bangladeshis harbor toward their politicians. In Dhaka and other cities, in the countryside where 80 percent of the population lives, and at the dinner tables of the foreign-educated elite who dominate the top levels of Government bureaucracy and business, there is bitter criticism of Mrs. Zia and Mrs. Wazed.
"We are just a poor country, but we are starting to rise up, and now the politicians are fighting again," said Ahmed, 18, a tractor owner at a brick kiln near the town of Bogra, an hour's drive north of Dhaka.
Kiln workers nodded in agreement. But when they were asked about a military coup, there was a chorus of dissent. Among many Bangladeshis, army rule is associated with corruption, arbitrary powers, even murder -- abuses with which General Ershad, currently serving a 13-year sentence in a Dhaka prison, was formally accused after his ouster.
[Court officials said on Jan. 26 that General Ershad had been charged with ordering the murder of a rebel army general after the 1981 failed coup, Reuters reported.]
"The army will destroy everything, as they did before," one older man said.
Ahmed, the kiln worker, and his brother Mohammed, 21, who like Ahmed uses only one name, typify what changing economic opportunities have meant. Like millions of Bangladeshis, their father was a hired hand in the rice paddies. His sons worked as laborers at the kiln, pooled their savings, took a loan, and bought a small tractor that they drive 10 hours a day, pushing a wooden rotary arm that grinds up clay used in making the bricks.
It is dirty, exhausting work, driven by the building boom in Dhaka. But it brings the brothers the equivalent of $17.50 a day, more than their father earned in a month. Already, they have bought some land, and hired men to grow rice.
Although more than 50 percent of all Bangladeshis still live below the official poverty line, it is through enterprise like the two brothers' that the economy is growing.
Despite the strikes, the official growth rate is about 4.5 percent. Economists like Mr. Cookson believe the real rate may be as high as 6.5 percent, close to the rates that propelled booms in countries like South Korea and Taiwan. Exports have been growing by 20 percent annually. Foreign exchange reserves have grown more than 10 times since 1991, to $3.4 billion.
Nor is economic momentum the only measure of progress. Although the population has grown by more than 50 million since 1970, the rate of increase has slowed dramatically, to 1.8 percent a year from more than 3 percent in 1975, as a result of one of the most effective birth-control programs in any developing country.
With fewer than 40 percent of Bangladeshis able to read and write, innovative programs provide food for students and pay small stipends to parents who keep their girls in class. Improved sanitation and health care have cut infant death rates to 88 per thousand, 15 percent lower than 25 years ago.
Perhaps most important, a boom in agriculture has brought the country close to feeding itself, with food imports of more than 10 million tons now down to 2.5 million tons a year.
The progress was set in motion long before military rule lifted. But few here question that it was the return to parliamentary government that provided the essential spur, and the threat to continued democratic rule that is the biggest danger now.
As political tensions increased in recent months, some of the economic success began to fade. Investors from Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan who had been rushing to take advantage of the low wages and windfall profits in the garment industry started to look elsewhere.
Inflation began to push upwards as the Zia Government, looking for votes, pumped money into pork-barrel projects. Wealthy Bangladeshis who had been investing at home stashed money in foreign banks.
Many Bangladeshis had hoped that signs of an economic downturn would prompt an agreement on the election. Talks mediated by the American Ambassador, David N. Merrill, appeared at one time to be close to agreement on an interim government.
But the talks failed when Mrs. Zia insisted that ultimate authority during the election period rest with Bangladesh's President, Abdur Rahman Biswas. Mrs. Wazed rejected the arrangement, calling President Biswas a stooge for Mrs. Zia.
The impasse has left the two leaders unrepentant. In an interview, Mrs. Wazed spoke with animosity for Mrs. Zia, saying the Bangladesh National party that General Zia founded and his widow now heads was "born in a cantonment," meaning a military barracks.
"So their character is not at all democratic," she said. "They have rigged elections. They have killed voters, and they have armed cadres all over the country. So how can we trust them to hold an election?"
Similar allegations are made against the Awami League by many Bangladeshis who remember the party's time in power, from 1971 until Sheik Mujibur's assassination in 1975. Sheik Mujibur declared Bangladesh a one-party state, founded a militia that was under his personal control and abolished civil rights.
Aides to Mrs. Zia declined requests for an interview. But an official who represented her in the election talks, Agriculture Minister Abdul Mannan Bhuyian, said the Awami League had sought from the outset to find an excuse not to take part in an election. "They know they cannot win an election, so they have tried to overthrow us with a mass movement," he said.
Now, Bangladesh faces an election that many people regard as meaningless, with little prospect that the Awami League will accept the results or call off the strikes.
To Mr. Anam, the newspaper editor, it is an ominous situation. "We are in the grip of a Government without credibility, and an opposition without responsibility," he said. "Is it any wonder that people are losing faith in our politicians, saying 'If this is democracy, who needs it?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Women working in a Dhaka garment factory are part of a fragile economic boom in Bangladesh. They earn an average of $30 a month and the fruits of their labor can be found in one in five American homes. (John Giannini for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BANGLADESH (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (90%); 

COMPANY: AWAMI LEAGUE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: AWAMI LEAGUE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGLADESH; BANGLADESH (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS APPAREL MFG (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TRENDS (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); BOYCOTTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; ZIA, KHALEDA (PRIME MIN)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



687 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: CLINTON'S ADVISERS;
Sharp Split Over Issues: Economics Or Values?

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
James Carville, the political strategist for Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign, will soon be on the book tour circuit with a prescription for the Democratic Party: focus on pocketbook issues like wage stagnation and measures to promote family stability.
"No. 1 is the paycheck, stupid," said Mr. Carville, refining his 1992 message that the campaign was about the economy. "No. 2 is, Daddies matter. Big time." 
 Dick Morris, Mr. Clinton's current strategist, argues conversely that the President should emphasize values, Administration officials say.
Mr. Morris counsels that Mr. Clinton should focus not on paycheck issues but on concerns like protecting children and changing the welfare system, and on education, Medicare and the environment.
These two strategists represent different sides in a debate that is raging so heavily inside the Democratic Party and the White House that the centrist Democratic Leadership Council devoted much of its January magazine to it: should the party stress economics or values in this election year?
Arguing for a heavy dose of economic issues with an eye toward appealing to labor and blue-collar voters are Mr. Clinton's 1992 campaign advisers, like Mr. Carville and Stanley B. Greenberg, as well as more liberal aides like Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich and the deputy White House chief of staff, Harold M. Ickes, Administration officials say.
"The economy has to be a major battleground for any Democrat aspiring to national office," said Mr. Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's campaign pollster in 1992.
Pushing a values-based theme, one they think has broader appeal across class lines, officials say, are the new campaign team of Mr. Morris, the pollsters Mark Penn and Douglas Schoen, and moderate Democratic allies like Bruce Reed, the domestic policy adviser, and Donald Baer, communications director.
"I think we've underestimated the value of values in our politics and they are very important," said Al From, president of the Democratic Leadership Council.
All sides agree that the President will and should make some synthesis of the two concerns. And he did to some degree in his State of the Union Message on Tuesday night.
While Mr. Clinton leaned heavily toward values, supporting school uniforms and reducing violence on television, he also called for an increase in the minimum wage and for corporations to share good times as well as bad with their workers. The proponents of paycheck issues believe he may yet move further their way.
"These two things are centrally related," said Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary. "The despair people feel about popular culture is related to insecurity about economic well-being."
"The issue is the effective fusion into one bigger idea," Mr. McCurry added. He described Mr. Clinton's reference to an "age of possibility" as a "holding pattern phrase" until he presents a fuller vision later in the campaign year.
What the President must decide is whether middle-class insecurities about layoffs and stagnant wages outweigh fears of crime and declining schools. His challenge is to appeal to both middle-class suburban independents and disenchanted blue-collar Democrats.
In weighing the debate between economics and values, William Curry, a Clinton adviser, likes to point to William Jennings Bryan, the turn-of-the-century populist.
Bryan began as an economic populist championing an easy money policy over the gold standard favored by Eastern bankers and industrialists. He reached the high point of his career at the 1896 Democratic convention, when he defended the free silver position by proclaiming, "You shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold."
But by the end of his life he had switched from economic to cultural issues, supporting Tennessee in its prosecution of John T. Scopes for teaching Darwinism instead of a strict interpretation of the Bible.
"Over the century since then, basically we the Democrats have run the 'cross of gold' speech against the Republicans," Mr. Curry said. "And they have run the Scopes trial against us, each of us looking to appeal to the same constituency."
Moderate Democrats say the lack of focus on cultural issues has been a mistake. They point to polling data showing that voters are comfortable with their own economic situation and yet still think the country is going in the wrong direction, suggesting that they are troubled by something broader than economics.
Mr. From contends that while Mr. Carville's quip that "it's the economy, stupid," seemed to sum up the 1992 campaign against President George Bush, the Clinton victory was really brought about by values issues, including Mr. Clinton's support of the death penalty and pledge to "end welfare as we know it."
But those Democrats who want pocketbook economics to play a major part of the campaign say the President risks looking cut off from working people if he simply cites his economic achievements of low unemployment and inflation rates and nearly eight million new jobs.
"To fail to acknowledge job insecurity, stagnating wages of many people and the widening income gap is to risk being out of touch with reality," one Clinton adviser said. "This is the problem Bush faced in 1992."
Another question is how to bring the economy into the campaign. Is it enough to speak of government programs to provide education and training of displaced workers, or of a higher minimum wage, pension and health care portability?
Should the President stump for corporations to cut down on the disparities between executive pay and workers pay, and for corporations to raise salaries as profits rise?
Praising Mr. Clinton's State of the Union Message, David Kusnet, a former Clinton speechwriter, said, "I think it sets the stage for what I hope will be an even stronger call for corporate responsibility on downsizing and pay increases in line with productivity and training workers for new and better jobs."
But some Clinton advisers worry that such stands could become polarizing, particularly if they start to focus on executive salaries and benefits and veer towards class warfare.
White House aides say that Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin is leery of language that could alienate business leaders. And one Democratic adviser involved in the debate says that appeals to class warfare divide the electorate, losing voters with $50,000 or more annual incomes, while Mr. Clinton's stands on values issues is another, less divisive way to reach blue-collar workers.
Mr. Clinton is not expected to move into full campaign gear until at least April, when it becomes clear who has won the Republican nomination. For now, his aides will be watching the performance of the economy and the performance of the Republican field, calibrating, for example, on how well the conservative columnist Patrick J. Buchanan does with his protectionist appeal to workers. And the debate will continue.
"A lot of this," said one Clinton adviser, "depends on what happens over the next few months."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WELFARE (US); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICARE; ENVIRONMENT ; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (71%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



688 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Battle Brews in Atlantic City

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

 BODY:
What happens when you mix tons of garbage, millions of dollars in proposed tax cuts and a couple of powerful competitors with outsized egos?
In Atlantic City, it adds up to a battle between two of the gambling industry's biggest rivals, Stephen A. Wynn, the chairman and chief executive of Las Vegas-based Mirage Resorts, and Donald J. Trump, the ubiquitous real estate developer and operator of three Atlantic City casinos. 
 Mr. Trump has declared war on a pending New Jersey bill that would provide a huge tax break to Mr. Wynn, who is planning to build a $500 million, 2,000-room hotel and casino in Atlantic City on the site of a former municipal landfill. Mr. Wynn, who sold his previous interests in the Atlantic City gambling industry in 1987, was selected last September by the city to build his resort, to be named Beau Rivage.
But Mr. Trump is leading a coalition of Atlantic City casino operators who say that a measure before the state Senate would give Mr. Wynn an unfair advantage by allowing him to obtain a tax cut to recoup his costs for cleaning up the 178-acre site where his casino is to be built. After competing proposals were submitted last fall -- one by a group that included Mr. Trump -- Mr. Wynn was awarded the contaminated land free of charge from the city. At that time, however, plans for the public to finance the cleanup of the site had not been announced.
Although the landfill measure, sponsored last fall by Senator William Gormley, a Republican from Atlantic City, would allow developers who are building on any of the more than 300 landfills around the state to apply for the same sales-tax abatement, Mr. Trump contended in an interview that the legislation was created specifically to assist Mr. Wynn. "I think it's an unnecessary favor and a lot of people are trying to figure out why this favor is being done," Mr. Trump said. "People should look into what's going on."
Mr. Gormley denied that his measure was created on Mr. Wynn's behalf. "I introduced this before ever talking to Mirage people," the Senator said.
For his part, Mr. Wynn seemed to enjoy watching his rival steam over the bill. During an interview this week with the New York radio host Don Imus, Mr. Wynn facetiously said, "I don't think he likes me. I don't think the Donald likes me."
Alan M. Feldman, a spokesman for Mirage, called Mr. Trump's allegations "blatantly hypocritical." Mirage has not lobbied for the landfill measure, he said, and neither Mr. Wynn nor the corporation has contributed funds to any of Senator Gormley's campaigns.
Mr. Trump himself has received tax breaks on many of his projects outside the gambling industry. But Alan Marcus, a spokesman and lobbyist for Mr. Trump, said the casino industry is so lucrative that additional incentives are not needed. "The incentive is the ability to operate," he said. "This sets a dangerous precedent."
Despite Mr. Trump's invective and his lobbying efforts in Atlantic City and Trenton, the landfill measure was unanimously approved by the Senate's natural resources committee earlier this week, and according to Mr. Gormley, it has received the endorsements of key labor and environmental groups.
Mr. Gormley confirmed that he stayed at Mr. Wynn's flagship Mirage hotel in Las Vegas last month, but said he was there to participate in a gambling industry conference, and paid for his room. A 14-year veteran of the state Senate and chairman of the judiciary committee, Mr. Gormley sponsored legislation, passed last year, that loosened casino regulations and helped to attract Mr. Wynn back to the city.
Should the landfill bill, in its current form, pass the full Senate and House and be signed into law by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, it would allow developers like Mr. Wynn to apply to the State Department of Commerce for a 50 percent cut on the retail sales tax to finance a landfill cleanup. Projects that promise to benefit the local economy would most likely receive the tax abatement, Mr. Gormley said.
By giving tax incentives to businesses that clean landfills, Mr. Gormley said, the state would receive much-needed assistance with a widespread environmental problem and create jobs.
Like many landfills around New Jersey that were abandoned before 1982, the Atlantic City site is filled with municipal waste from local businesses and homes. Since then, tighter restrictions for closing down landfills have been implemented.
Mirage Resorts submitted one of only two bids for the site. The other, for a golf course, was submitted by Mr. Trump's group.
Nicholas R. Amato, president of the Casino Association of New Jersey, which represents 11 of the city's 12 gambling halls, said his group supports "the purpose and concept" of the bill but believes that incentives to promote economic development should maintain "a level playing field among all casino operations" and that taxpayers, not casino developers, should be the beneficiaries of any tax relief.
Both Mr. Amato and Arthur M. Goldberg, the chairman and chief executive of Bally Entertainment, operator of two Atlantic City casinos, said more developers would have bid for the landfill site had they known their cleanup costs might have been reimbursed. "We were looking at the land," Mr. Goldberg said in a telephone interview from Las Vegas, where the Bally's Grand competes with Mr. Wynn's Mirage.
"I talked to my board and they wanted me to quantify the cost of cleanup," he said. "I couldn't do it."
He added, "But if I had known it would be reimbursed it would have been no problem."
The Atlantic City gambling industry is coming off its strongest performance in seven years, after posting revenues of $3.75 billion in 1995, a 9.5% jump in revenues from the previous year. "We have the hottest gaming jurisdiction in the United States," Mr. Trump proclaimed.
"Everybody wants to be there. And somebody comes in and gets a piece of land for nothing, and we clean it up for them too. It's extremely unfair and highly unconstitutional."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Moguls and adversaries: Donald J. Trump and Stephen A. Wynn. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MIRAGE HOTEL (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LANDFILL ; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); GAMING (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CASINOS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LANDFILLS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (74%); SALES TAX (73%); LOBBYING (73%); SOLID WASTE REGULATION (73%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (57%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT; TRUMP, DONALD J; WYNN, STEPHEN A STEPHEN A WYNN (91%); DONALD TRUMP (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



689 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: After 3-Year Wait, Arms Pact Wins Senate Backing but Faces New Russian Opposition

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Today, three years after President Bush and President Boris N. Yeltsin signed a major strategic arms reduction treaty, Start II, the Senate approved it, 87 to 4.
But the treaty, which would cut the number of nuclear warheads held by both countries by 50 percent, may be dead, some senior American officials fear. The current Russian legislature, elected on Dec. 17, is significantly more opposed to Mr. Yeltsin than the old one, and it may prove impossible to get the necessary votes there to approve the treaty as written. 
 Even the old legislature, or Duma, had a large block of centrists, nationalists and Communists who favored a renegotiation of Start II, feeling that Mr. Yeltsin, in the euphoria of an early partnership with the United States, gave too much away.
The Russian criticism, expressed by centrists like Sergei Karaganov, a Yeltsin adviser and academic, is that Russia was wrong to give up the mainstay of its nuclear force -- land-based, multiwarhead missiles -- while the United States need only reduce its crucial force of submarine-based missiles.
Today, with the Parliament dominated by Communist and nationalist deputies, the push to renegotiate rather than approve will only be stronger, senior American officials acknowledge. And the Duma is unlikely to even take up the treaty until after Russia's presidential elections in June. The treaty requires approval by a simple majority of both houses of the Russian parliament.
Still, the American officials think that the treaty is in the best interests of both countries, and they are very much hoping that the legislature will approve it in time for the next summit meeting between Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin in Moscow in April, when the treaty could be formally ratified.
But there is more gloom than optimism. "While we hope the Duma will ratify Start II, it seems unlikely that they will," said Marc Thiessen, spokesman for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which bottled up the treaty for months last year in an unrelated effort to force a reorganization of the State Department.
Spurgeon Keeny, president of the Arms Control Association in Washington, said today: "The Duma is doing nothing on it. The Russians have made it very clear, publicly and privately, that they want to look at the treaty very closely. The Duma has a bunch of new people who are a more conservative, nationalistic group, and the criticism in Russia is that they got a bad deal. It's unlikely the Duma will act before their presidential elections in June. And many think it's unlikely the Duma will act until after our presidential elections in November."
A senior American official who follows the issue closely said "there is a prospect" the Russians will approve the treaty, "but it's not a high prospect. I wouldn't hold my breath."
The vote tonight in the Senate came in a flurry of business before the senators left for the weekend. To speed the process, they decided to debate the treaty only after completing their vote on it.
Signed with great fanfare just before President Bush left office, the treaty would reduce Russian and American arsenals to no more than 3,500 warheads each, one-third their 1990 total and roughly half the totals permitted under the Start I treaty, which is currently in force. Start II is intended to follow Start I seamlessly, and allows a seven-year period for reductions.
The treaty would eliminate Russia's big multiple-warhead land-based missiles, regarded as the most significant strategic threat to the United States. On the American side, it means the elimination of the large Peacekeeper, or MX, missile and the reduction of warheads in the Minuteman missile from three to one. It also counts the number of warheads on bombers in an accurate way, which is a benefit to the Russians, since bombers, which the Americans also rely on, were counted as only one warhead, artificially, under Start I.
Basically, the treaty brings the American arsenal down to roughly the level that the Russians "are going to be at anyway," given money constraints, one American official said. "There's a good case to be made in the Duma for the treaty."
If the treaty fails, however, it would be an important setback to the psychology of arms reduction. It could damage the chance of a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty. But it also would mean that more nuclear material would be deployed all over Russia that could be diverted, increasing proliferation concerns.
The reasons for the delay in approving Start II are many. President Bush put the treaty before the Senate on the last day of his presidency. But with the collapse of the Soviet Union, it was important to get the agreement of new countries like Belarus, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, who inherited Soviet missiles, to agree to give them up, to join the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty as non-nuclear states and to ratify Start I themselves.
Start I went into effect on Dec. 5, 1994. But Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, took over the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in January 1995, after the Republicans took over the Senate, and held up the treaty, as well as a number of ambassadorial appointments, as a way to pressure the Administration to abolish some agencies, like the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and give their functions to the State Department.
The Administration ultimately cut $1.7 million from the budgets of these agencies and the treaty reached Congress in mid-December -- just as Russians were electing their new, more conservative legislature.
Mr. Thiessen, the Senate Committee spokesman, said that Mr. Helms felt "no responsibility" for a delay that could kill the treaty. After all, Mr. Thiessen said, the old Duma did not approve the treaty either.
As for the possibility of renegotiating the treaty, Mr. Thiessen said: "Every time the Russians complain, this Administration caves." But American officials said tonight they thought the prospect of renegotiation was very slim.
American officials will press the issue this weekend, when Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin is in Washington to meet Vice President Al Gore, and when Secretary of State Warren Christopher meets the new Russian Foreign Minister, Yevgeny Primakov, in Helsinki on Feb. 10 and 11.
President Clinton spoke to Mr. Yeltsin for 40 minutes this afternoon, to receive assurances that the Russian President remains "committed to economic reform and a continuing, strong U.S.-Russian relationship," said the Presidential spokesman, Michael D. McCurry. They also discussed Bosnia and Chechnya, but the Start II treaty did not seem to be a topic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); APPROVALS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CONSERVATISM (65%); GUN CONTROL (61%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN GEORGE W BUSH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



690 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Prices Snap Back From Slide With Good Gain

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices recovered strongly from early losses yesterday, halting a recent slide on revived hopes of a Federal budget agreement.
The comeback was bolstered by a short-cover rally, as market participants who sold borrowed securities hoping prices would continue to fall were caught off guard by the upswing and sought to limit their losses. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose a full point, to 11113/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.04 percent, from 6.11 percent on Thursday, when investors sold off on the dismal outlook for a budget accord and large hedge funds dumped Treasury securities.
The selling by hedge funds continued early yesterday, with a number of large funds still unwinding yen-financed trades. In such trades, hedge funds, which are private investment funds for wealthy individuals, buy yen, borrow in Japan at low interest rates and then buy United States Treasury securities.
And few market participants were willing to hold long positions before the Federal Reserve's policy meeting next week. The Fed's Federal Open Market Committee meets on Tuesday and Wednesday.
But traders said the market bounced off some technical support levels that made afternoon buyers out of morning sellers.
The market was heartened by signs the Senate would pass a stopgap spending measure. It eventually approved the bill, 82 to 2, yesterday, but after the close of the Treasury cash and futures markets.
Weak economic data also gave comfort to the market, bolstering hopes for a cut in short-term interest rates by the Fed.
The Commerce Department reported that November wholesale inventories, or the stocks of unsold goods on wholesalers' shelves, fell four-tenths of 1 percent, compared with a gain of eight-tenths of 1 percent in October. It was the largest drop in inventories since March 1994, when they fell half of 1 percent. November sales were up four-tenths of 1 percent, compared with a gain of a tenth of a percent in October.
Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisers Corporation of Columbus, Ohio, said the market appeared to believe that the economy was headed for softer ground within the next couple of months.
"So despite the fear of budget problems which could cause rates to spike upwards," he said, "buyers are afraid to completely jump off the train."
Some of the cautiousness in yesterday's market, he said, may be a result of lackluster note auctions this week still weighing on investors' minds as they prepare for a new quarterly refunding in early February. The Treasury is expected to announce the size of its quarterly sales on Wednesday. The sales are expected to include a three-prong offering of about $43.7 billion of notes and bonds.
"Therefore, with a refunding that includes a bond issue, in addition to 3- and 10-year notes, the market faces a risk of indigestion," Mr. Chan said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FUTURES (76%); BOND ISSUES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (63%); 

PERSON: ANTHONY CHAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



691 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Speedy Ride on the French Railway Gives One View of the Labor Strike

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: BORDEAUX, France, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Claude Bouquet has been working on the railroad most of his life. Today his day began at the Montparnasse station in Paris at 7:39 A.M., when he hoisted himself into the engineer's cabin of a silver-and-blue, super-high-speed train so streamlined it seems to be streaking along even when standing still.
In six more years Mr. Bouquet will be 50, and as an engineer, he can retire from the French National Railways soon after that at 74 percent of full pay, which now averages about $3,400 a month before taxes and payroll deductions. 
 Generous provisions like these have brought the French railroads to the point where they now have 353,400 former employees or their survivors collecting pensions, and only 182,350 working railroaders -- one reason why the system was $35 billion in debt even before losses last year that were estimated at $3.2 billion more.
The French Government, which has owned the railroads since the 1930's, pays $4 billion of the $5.4 billion pension bill every year in one way or another, but when it proposed changing retirement rules for state employees to cut the ballooning state deficit, Mr. Bouquet and most of his colleagues went out on a three-week strike last month that paralyzed the country.
"If the Government hadn't put retirement age in question, the strike wouldn't have lasted longer than a week," he said. "I don't belong to a labor union, but when they told us that our pensions were in danger, I walked out, too."
Stung conservative politicians, economists and commentators have been asking since the strikes whether French workers will ever be willing to make the kinds of sacrifices in compensation, benefits and standard of living that American, British and other workers have accepted in the name of improving competitiveness.
A day spent with Mr. Bouquet provided some answers.
He lives near Tours in the Loire Valley of central France, a few blocks from the sprawling St.-Pierre-des-Corps depot where he started out as an apprentice worker in 1967. He had driven another train to Paris the night before and spent the night in railroad accommodations to be ready for his morning call.
Now he is at the head end of a double train with 20 passenger cars, the on-board computer in the electronic console programmed for the trip ahead as he waits for a bell from the conductor signaling him to start moving at 8:15.
He presses a lever and behind him, electric motors that generate 8,800 horsepower at maximum speed groan into action. The train, TGV 8409, begins threading its way out of the station.
Within a few minutes the train is on the left-hand track of the double-track high-speed main line to southwestern France and entering the three-mile-long tunnel at Villejuste. Mr. Bouquet keeps the speed to 130 miles an hour -- "These trains aren't pressurized, and going faster would make your ears hurt," he grins -- and then accelerates to maximum speed, 187 m.p.h.
"There are no visual signals on this line -- they all come into the console electronically, transmitted from Paris through the rails," he explains as the train wolfs down more than three miles a minute. "As long as I stay within the speed limit for the sector, I am in control, but the machine would take over if I didn't."
Half an hour after leaving Paris, the train has already covered 75 miles. Mr. Bouquet says that as a little boy he never dreamed of working on the railroad; he wanted to study at a university. "My father died when I was in high school, and my mother had to take me out of school and send me to work," he says. "I passed three aptitude tests and went to the railroad because they paid apprentices a small salary, and I needed one to help my mother."
A bell goes off reminding him to keep pressing the "dead man's pedal" designed to bring the train to a halt if a driver falls asleep or unconscious. Mr. Bouquet has worked Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday this week. After a three-hour pause, today's shift will end just before 6 P.M. when he drives another train from Bordeaux to Tours.
"The usual working week can have as few as two consecutive days, or as many as six," he says. "I'm guaranteed 112 days off a year, including at least 20 on weekends, and when I overnight at home, which is usually every other day, I am guaranteed 14 consecutive hours off between shifts."
That is in addition to paid holidays, and five weeks of vacation. Mr. Bouquet worked his way up through less sophisticated classes of locomotives to the high-speed trains over 23 years, but even now, at the top of his profession, he doesn't make a fortune by French standards. His base salary, before taxes, is $2,300 a month, supplemented by about $1,100 a month in night and holiday differentials and a bonus for distance traveled -- $54 for every 625 miles, a little more than what he will cover today.
If he puts in 37.5 years, he can collect the maximum pension of about three-quarters of gross pay. But according to special pension rules granted by the state in the days of steam when railroading was often blood, sweat and tears, engineers can retire at the age of 50.
"The Government never properly explained how the change in the pension system would work," Mr. Bouquet said. "Only the unions gave us their version, and the way that sounded, we were going to be forced to leave at 50 and have no option to keep working for the full pension benefit even if we wanted to."
Railroad officials said details were to have been worked out by a mediation board, but it went out of existence when the Government shelved the plan as a step toward ending the strikes.
Mr. Bouquet is aware of the calamitous state of French Government finances, with a deficit of more than $60 billion last year.
"The state takes plenty from us wage-earners, too," he says. "By the time my health insurance and pension deductions are taken out, I don't have much of my pay left. This year there's a new tax to pay off the health insurance deficit, and that will be another 160 or 200 francs a month," the equivalent of $32 to $40.
Arriving in Bordeaux three minutes ahead of schedule at 11:26, Mr. Bouquet watches passengers disembark before he moves his train off to the rail yard. "My wife works, but when I retire we'll do other things," he says. "I'm the president of a swimming club and I like sports, and I'm sure I'll find plenty to keep me occupied."
And the Government will find some other way to cut the deficit.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Claude Bouquet, a French railroad engineer, checked his schedule as his high-speed train sped past the countryside at up to 187 miles an hour. (Craig Whitney/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (53%); 

STATE: AQUITAINE, FRANCE (79%); CENTRE-VAL DE LOIRE, FRANCE (72%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); SAINT-PIERRE, SAINT PIERRE & MIQUELON (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (53%); AQUITAINE, FRANCE (79%); CENTRE-VAL DE LOIRE, FRANCE (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); SAINT-PIERRE, SAINT PIERRE & MIQUELON (53%); 

SUBJECT: STRIKES; LABOR; RAILROADS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); RETIREMENT POLICIES (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); CONSERVATISM (67%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%); LIVING STANDARDS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R CLAUDE BOUQUET (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



692 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Fed Watchers Expect A Cut in Rates Next Week
Federal Reserve policy makers meet next week to discuss interest rates, and while many economists would expect lower rates, because of low inflation and signs of a slowing economy, the Fed will consider several unusual factors. There's the budget impasse, and the disruption in economic statistics.
Also, important decisions on the Fed leadership are looming. Many Fed watchers expect a quarter-point drop in short-term rates. [Page 36.]
 
The Senate passed stopgap spending legislation to keep the Government open for another seven weeks, at reduced spending levels. Efforts by Democrats to add amendments were defeated. [1.]
 
Mexico Making Payment to U.S.
Mexico plans to return on Monday the $1.3 billion it borrowed from the U.S. last year. It will still owe $10.5 billion, as well as $11 billion to the International Monetary Fund. Lately, Mexico's economic outlook has improved drastically, with its stock market at a historic high, interest rates plummeting and the battered peso showing signs of stability. But most Mexicans remain mired in a deep recession. [1.]
 
Dow Spurts to a Record
The Dow Jones average set its third record of the week, as investors grew less concerned about budget talks in Washington and on the strength of good corporate earnings. The Dow gained 54.92 points, to 5,271.75, for a rise of just over 1 percent. For the week, the Dow was up 87.07 points.[37.]
 
Treasury prices recovered from early losses on revived hopes of a Federal budget agreement. The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose a full point. Its yield fell to 6.04 percent from 6.11 percent. [36.]
 
Mattel Presses Hasbro
Mattel refuted Hasbro's contention that the breakdown of merger discussions was tied to antitrust concerns. Mattel said that during intense talks this week, Hasbro won a richer price for itself and the choice of its chairman as a co-chairman of the merged company. Hasbro shares rose $2.50, to $43, but remain well below the $52 offer from Mattel. [34.]
 
Perjury Charge at Tobacco Company
A former research chief of Brown & Williamson Tobacco, Jeffrey S. Wigand, testified that the company had engaged in perjury, destruction of evidence and the quashing of research into safer cigarettes, according to a transcript of sealed testimony given in Mississippi. [7.]
CBS broadcast an interview with Mr. Wigand that its legal team had previously barred. Since his deposition has been published, CBS said, it no longer faced a lawsuit. [1.]
 
Small Aid Package for Fokker
The Dutch Government said it would grant an emergency bailout package worth $219 million to Fokker, but acknowledged that the money would keep the aircraft maker from collapse for no more than six weeks. The amount is relatively small, but it does try to preserve thousands of jobs. [34.]
 
Investors Lift Sotheby's Stake
An investment group including Bass family members increased its stake in Sotheby's to 5.3 percent. It hinted that it would prod the auction house to act to lift its stock price, which has languished. [35.]
 
New Charges Against a Maxwell
Prosecutors who lost a high-profile fraud case against two sons of the British publisher Robert Maxwell said they would bring new charges against one son, Kevin, and three former company executives. [34.]
 
Funeral Homes Consolidate
Big chains now own 12 percent of the nation's funeral homes in urban areas and are quickly acquiring more. [6.]
 
Dollar Climbs Against Mark
The dollar rose against the mark but fell against the yen. The dollar was as high as 1.4940 marks, for the first time since Sept. 15. "It appears the market just likes the dollar over all," one banker said. [43.]
 
Chinese Buying Lifts Wheat Prices
Wheat prices surged after China finished a three-day buying spree equal to one-fourth of the wheat produced last year in Kansas. [43.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,271 Up 54.92
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.04% Down 0.07
The Dollar -- 106.67 yen Down 0.23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (84%); RAI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2131 CHEWING & SMOKING TOBACCO & SNUFF (52%); SIC2121 CIGARS (52%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (52%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (77%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (84%); REYNOLDS AMERICAN INC (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (77%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BONDS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); STATISTICS (73%); MERGERS (72%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (72%); LITIGATION (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (70%); AUCTIONS (69%); TRANSCRIPTS (67%); DEPOSITIONS (65%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: SID BASS (50%); ROBERT BASS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



693 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News;
Fervent, Tough Manager

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER 

 BODY:
Lawrence G. Reuter, the man who was named yesterday to head the New York City Transit Authority, is both a self-described advocate for public transportation and, transit officials say, a tough budget-cutter in tune with an era of declining subsidies and rising costs.
There will be ample opportunity for him to use such facets of his professional personality when he takes over the nation's largest public transportation agency, sometime in March. 
 New York subway and bus riders face possibly painful service changes, and judging by the comments of people who worked with Mr. Reuter in his most recent position, as head of the Washington, D.C., Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, he will not shrink from them.
Faced with stagnant ridership in the capital and less money to provide service, Mr. Reuter cut some $200 million from the Washington agency's operating budget over the last two years. He cut about 700 jobs and bus service, consolidated departments and, through a new labor contract, encouraged workers to retire early.
And to avoid taking on new costs, he successfully opposed Federal regulators who ordered new subway platform edges in Washington to aid blind riders, saving some $30 million.
Four members of the Board of Directors of Washington's public transit agency praised Mr. Reuter's efforts, and expressed regret at his departure, noting that in the rarefied world of big-city transit managers, a replacement would not be easy to come by. "He's cut millions and millions and made very substantial reductions in the number of persons working for the system." said Gerry Hyland, a board member from Virginia. "That's not an easy thing."
But Mr. Reuter does not meet with universal praise in Washington. "He did little or nothing," said James Thomas, president of Local 689 of the Amalgamated Transit Union. "He inherited a system that practically operated itself."
"Of all the general managers that were here, I think he was anti-worker," Mr. Thomas said.
 But Mr. Reuter, 45, who worked for the New York transit system in the early 1980's, is described by others as unequivocally dedicated to mass transit. As head of the mass transit system in San Jose, Calif., between 1990 and 1994, he helped put the area's fledgling public transit system on a firm footing, said Rod Diridon, executive director of the International Institute for Surface Transportation Policy Studies, a government-funded think tank in San Jose. Mr. Reuter left San Jose for Washington in March 1994.
"To him, public transportation isn't just a job, it's a religion," said Mr. Diridon, a former chairman of the American Public Transit Association.
Mr. Reuter was a "major factor" in obtaining more government money for an extension of the light rail system, Mr. Diridon said, and he pushed hard for a half-cent sales-tax increase for public transit, approved by voters but struck down by California courts for violating a state law.
Mr. Reuter was born Jan. 12, 1951, in Somerspoint, N.J. He received a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering from Florida Technological University in Orlando, and in 1979 became an executive with the Railway Service Corporation, a Florida company that rebuilt freight and passenger car equipment.
He joined New York City's transit agency in 1982, rising rapidly through positions of increasing responsibility, thanks to the advocacy of David L. Gunn, a former agency head. Mr. Reuter served as general manager of the Staten Island Railway, vice president in charge of buses and subways, and eventually senior vice president of operations. "He's one of the best in the business," Mr. Gunn, now the general manager of the Toronto Transit Commission, said. "If you ride the subway you're lucky." Mr. Gunn said his former subordinate would "fight for the resources he needs to do the job."
An official with Local 100 of the Transit Workers Union said Mr. Reuter is remembered as "fair and reasonable, a good businessman." The official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said: "He could be trusted. If he gave his word, it was good."
Mr. Reuter has been negotiating for the New York job since November. E. Virgil Conway, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said of Mr. Reuter in a statement yesterday: "After an extensive nationwide search, it was clear that Larry Reuter was the natural choice to run New York City Transit. He is unquestionably the most well-respected transit manager in the country and brings with him a major advantage in having previously managed the day-to-day operations of both New York City Transit's subways and buses."
In an interview yesterday, Mr. Reuter said he looked forward to the challenge of running New York's bus and subway system, adding that he had missed it. "I would say I'm what I would consider a real advocate of public transportation," he said. "In most urban areas public transportation is absolutely essential, a great economic development tool."
Married with three children, Mr. Reuter is described as being devoted to his 17-year-old son, Jonathan, who suffers from the spinal birth defect spina bifida.
Perhaps the clearest demonstration of what several said is an essential element of his character -- a courteous firmness -- came last March, when Mr. Reuter went before a transportation subcommittee of the United States House of Representatives to declare that he would not replace the 18-inch wide granite edges on Washington's subway platforms with 24-inch ones with raised bumps, as Federal officials were ordering him to do, to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. Advocates for the blind were divided on the issue; his own agency's study indicated they were not needed.
The Federal Transit Administration threatened to sue. Mr. Reuter told the subcommittee: "We're going to say no to putting those down." He was criticized by some on the committee at the crowded, contentious hearing. But ultimately Mr. Reuter won his fight, as well as praise for firm diplomacy.
"I thought at the time he was walking into a mare's nest," said Jeff Nelligan, a spokesman for the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, who was present that day. "I thought he wound up walking out with his dignity intact."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence G. Reuter at his office in Washington, where he has cut some $200 million from the transit authority's budget over two years. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA) WASHINGTON AGENCY INC (57%); NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (NYCTA) NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); CITIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: NOSSITER, ADAM; REUTER, LAWRENCE G THOMAS A JAMES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



694 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Ever Quirky, and Now Gifted, Too;
With $42 Million, Bard College Joins a New League

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER 

DATELINE: ANNANDALE-ON-HUDSON, N.Y.

 BODY:
Small and slightly quirky liberal arts colleges tend to turn out almost as many poets as they do bankers. As a result, they seldom receive the king-sized gifts needed to entice talented professors and embellish their campuses.
But Bard College these days is smiling like a lovable misfit who managed to inherit most of the family fortune: it has received a gift totaling $42 million from three of its trustees. 
 This would have been impressive at an Ivy League school with a billion-dollar endowment, but it is particularly extraordinary at a school that was essentially reborn after World War II, a school whose endowment is only $22 million. Bennington College, a rival progressive school, has never received a gift larger than $3 million.
In one stroke, the gift allows Bard to more than double its endowment and eases the yearly pressures of raising money to make ends meet. Paradoxically -- and
paradox is a treasured intellectual concept at Bard -- the gift will help the school continue to move away from the clique of unconventional, arts-centered colleges like Bennington, Antioch and Hampshire, with which it is often compared, into the realm of more traditional colleges like Vassar and Wesleyan, with whom it is increasingly competing for students.
Building a more comprehensive school that maintains the Bard creed of idiosyncratic inquiry seems to have been the intent of the three donors, not one of them an alumnus. They are Richard B. Fisher, chairman of the Morgan Stanley Group Inc., Leon Levy, general partner of Odyssey Partners, an investment firm, and Susan Weber Soros, director of Bard's Manhattan-based Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts and the wife of George Soros, the billionaire financier.
"These people are attracted to a place like Bard because the period of creative institution-building is in front of them, not behind them," said Dr. Leon Botstein, who as president for 20 years has orchestrated Bard's growth as masterfully as a symphonic conductor, which he also is. "These are people who made their money by doing something new, not something old. They haven't clipped coupons."
All this talk of new ventures is not to deny that Bard is still what the poet John Ashbery, a Bard literature professor, calls a "a really individual, slightly eccentric liberal arts college."
On a gently rolling campus about 25 miles north of Poughkeepsie with stately views of the Hudson River, professors have wide latitude to shape their own courses, and papers are preferred over tests. Classes are small and requirements flexible; seminars outnumber lectures.
The science offerings tend to be fairly straightforward and the menu limited. But in the arts and social studies, professors seem to have a fondness for thematic or provocative courses over pure survey classes.
In a course called Florence, a student examines not just Florentine writers like Dante and Machiavelli, but, for instance, the paintings of Botticelli, to discover what about Florence brought out such passionate feelings in its citizens. The history department offers a semester-long course called the Decision to Drop the Bomb.
Critics have accused Dr. Botstein of a kind of flabby intellectual chic, but he says he believes it important to immerse students in beguiling content, through writing or performing, before giving them the broad historic sweep that some schools feel should come first.
"When you teach someone baseball," he said, "they get invested in knowing what the rules are because they have enjoyed the act of hitting and catching. You don't sit them down and teach them the rule book."
Students like Joshua Birenbaum, a senior from San Jose, Calif., seem to thrive. He is a law and philosophy major who likes to point out that he scored in the 99th percentile on his Law School Assessment Test -- an accomplishment that belies Bard's reputation, acquired in the 1960's, for flaky, drugged-out students.
"It's similar to what you see with children learning," he said of Bard's philosophy. "They're grasping at objects they're interested in. By taking the detail classes, you'll want to get the survey approach."
Yet Dr. Botstein believes that students need a foundation in the classics, and Bard requires a first year of great texts, even though the teachers may balance "The Odyssey" with a more obscure work like the Hindu epic "The Ramayana."
Despite its offbeat image, Bard's admissions standards -- and its tuition, room and board of $26,934 -- rank it among elite schools. It admits 50 percent of its applicants, and the average entrant scores 1230 on the Scholastic Assessment Test. Almost 70 percent of its students receive financial aid.
"I wanted a small school, a rural school, a school that was really about education and not getting a degree so you could get a good job," said Emily Stuart, a senior from Winston-Salem, N.C.
Allison Slavid, a senior from Needham, Mass, said: "The people who like it here are the people who when you were young you liked to have over on a rainy day. They were the people with the best ideas."
The trustees give Dr. Botstein much of the credit for the college's growth. He is tall and wears owlish glasses; his surviving hair is curled as tightly as steel wool. His office has the look of a West Side intellectual's redoubt, with books piled haphazardly on shelves and copies of magazines like Daedalus and The New York Review of Books vying for desk space with a package of Sudafed. In his spare time, he is the chief conductor of the American Symphony Orchestra.
His delivery can be loftily Shakespearean, but in a conversation bristling with Wittgenstein and Mahler, there remain the Yiddishisms of a Holocaust refugee childhood. He described a fierce rainstorm outside his neo-Gothic office as shreklech -- frightening -- and the large libraries maintained by Harvard and Yale as a tsorah, or travail.
Dr. Botstein, 49, came to Bard in 1975 when it had 600 students, a $100,000 endowment, mountains of debt, an inadequate gym and a congested library. Now the college has 1,000 students, no debt, a new gym and a new library; it is midway through a three-year campaign that has raised $83 million.
"We worked hard to try to figure out what's a good curriculum," Dr. Botsein said. "If we were rich and secure we would never have been inventive."
The college has grafted on graduate programs in economics, environmental studies, curatorial studies and decorative arts, and it is planning a new performing arts center and student center. Its faculty includes such stars as Chinua Achebe, the Nigerian novelist; James Chace, the author of nine books on international affairs, and Elizabeth Frank, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1985 for a biography of the poet and critic Louise Bogan.
Dr. Botstein shrugs off suggestions that he pried out the millions he has raised by his considerable charm.
"I believe profoundly in the importance of what is being done," he said. "It is not about some superficial socializing. It is about having a goal that needs doing and making the person who is giving the money feel an integral part of solving the problem. The donor is not simply a cash machine."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Leon Botstein, Bard College's president, is given much credit for the school's growth. The Stevenson Library at Bard College, which has recieved a gift totaling $42 million from three trustees. "The people who like it here are the people who when you were young you like to have over on a rainy day," says Allison Slavid seated with Joshua Birenbaum. (pg. 23); "I wanted a small school, a rural school, a school that was really about education and not getting a degree so you could get a good job," said Emily Stuart, a senior at Bard. She worked on sculptures for her senior thesis. (Photographs by Susanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. 27)
 
Map of Dutchess County

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BARD COLLEGE MORGAN STANLEY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARD COLLEGE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; GIFTS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); POETRY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (78%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); LITERATURE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: BOTSTEIN, LEON; FISHER, RICHARD B; LEVY, LEAH; SOROS, SUSAN WEBER; BERGER, JOSEPH GEORGE SOROS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



695 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
MEXICO TO REPAY PART OF U.S. LOAN

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 26

 BODY:
Responding to signs of its economic recuperation and impatience in the Clinton Administration for repayment, Mexico plans to return on Monday the $1.3 billion it borrowed from the United States last year.
While Mexico will still owe the United States $10.5 billion, as well as more than $11 billion to the International Monetary Fund, the planned installment on Monday underscores the Government's ability to bounce back after a disastrous economic crisis that brought Mexico to the brink of national insolvency and threatened the stability of other markets around the world. 
 In Washington, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said: "The program is working to restore stability and the basis for growth. We are confident the United States will be paid back with interest for the assistance we have provided to Mexico under the support program."
In recent weeks, Mexico's economic outlook has changed markedly from the gloomy days of devaluation and near default a year ago.
The stock market has climbed to a historic high, interest rates have plummeted, the badly battered peso has shown signs of stability and there have been a few indications that unemployment, while still punishingly high, is easing slightly.
But the street-level economy where most Mexicans live and work remains deeply mired in one of the worst recessions this century. While exports have soared on the strength of a weaker peso, domestic sales nosedived. Inflation has eroded wage increases to the point that the buying power of most workers declined by 30 percent last year, and record numbers of cars and houses were repossessed by Mexican banks, which themselves are reeling badly from the crisis.
"In general things are getting better," said Jonathan Heath, an economist in Mexico City. "But you have to be very wary of how you interpret the indicators. Unemployment may have gone down but I can assure you we haven't created many jobs recently. People are adjusting. Some are taking half-time jobs, some taking jobs that pay less and some are so discouraged they're simply not looking for work anymore."
Monday's repayment is expected to help defuse criticism of President Clinton's handling of the Mexican crisis just as the first Presidential primary elections are near.
"It's 100 percent politics," Mr. Heath said. "The United States is starting the primary season and its wants to be paid back. They don't want Mexico to be shoved back in their faces."
To repay the money, Mexico plans to capitalize on one of the most striking aspects of its recovery strategy. Even though a year ago the Government had lost almost all of its foreign currency reserves and was facing a seemingly unpayable mountain of debt, Mexico has returned successfully to the international capital markets, including a recent sale exceeding $1 billion in debt denominated in German marks.
The proceeds from that sale will be used to repay most of the American loan. The rest will presumably come from the $16 billion Mexico now has in its reserves.
"Mexico rapidly regained access to international capital markets and has established the basis for the resumption of growth," Mr. Rubin said in Washington.
Mexico has several reasons for acting now. On Monday $1.3 billion of short-term money it borrowed from the United States falls due. It represents part of $2 billion in short-term American loans that Mexico borrowed last February to avoid default. The $2 billion had a term of just 90 days and Mexico had extended it several times. The Government paid back $700 million in October, and then extended the unpaid portion one more time.
So far Mexico has paid $750 million in interest.
In all, Mexico has used $13.5 billion of the total $20 billion authorized by the United States. That includes $1 billion that was used to pay back money borrowed under an earlier rescue program. The total owed by Mexico therefore never exceeded $12.5 billion.
Some of the early signs of Mexico's tentative recovery have been strong, even if there is no indication they can be sustained. Last Tuesday the Mexican stock exchange reached a high of 3,087 points and the peso strengthened to 7.33 to the dollar, its highest value since last November. Later in the week, the stock exchange lost some ground while the peso-dollar exchange rate remained firm.
Interest rates on Government treasury certificates this week dropped to 37.23 percent; last year those rates exceeded 80 percent.
The Mexican Treasury Department has announced that for the first time in five years, Mexico had a huge surplus in its commercial trade balance. Helped by the cheaper peso, Mexican exports soared 31 percent in 1995 while imports declined by 8.6 percent. In all, Mexico exported $7.39 billion more in goods and services than it imported.
Mexico has also drastically revamped its overall debt, refinancing most short-term loans and spreading out payment in such a way that its chances of default have been considerably reduced.
The thorniest debt problem last year was represented by the dollar-denominated treasury bonds, called Tesobonos. At the beginning of 1995, Mexico had just over $29 billion of Tesobonos outstanding, and most of the money was due in less than a year.
As of this week, 99.6 percent of the Tesobonos have been paid off, leaving just $115.7 million.
Mexico's emergency recovery program has not been entirely successful. Inflation for 1995 reached 52 percent, far exceeding original forecasts. Thousands of businesses have closed and many others are barely surviving.
Last year was the most violent and crime-ridden year in Mexico City since the 1910 Revolution and many middle-class Mexican families have doubled the height of the concrete walls that traditionally surround Mexican homes. Installers of electrified fences are among the few local companies to have had a banner year.
One sign of the contrast between Mexico's progress and its pain is that on Monday, just as the Government is scheduled to proudly pay back the $1.3 billion to the United States, a group of desperate Mexican debtors intends to act out being tortured and burned outside the Association of Mexican Banks in a demonstration of their frustration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (84%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REPOSSESSION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TRENDS (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); POLITICS (65%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RUBIN, ROBERT E (SEC) BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



696 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: NEW THINKING ON POLLING;
Changing Opinions Through Information and Debate

BYLINE: By ERNEST TOLLERSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26

 BODY:
A little bit of reliable information, plus plenty of time to digest it and debate it, can be a liberating thing.
When the 459 randomly selected, demographically diverse delegates to the National Issues Convention arrived in Austin, Tex., on Jan. 18, 59.3 percent said they thought the Federal Government spent too much on foreign aid. Twenty-six percent thought the level of aid, $17 billion, or 1.1 percent of Federal expenditures in 1994, was about right. 
 By the time the delegates left town three days later, the ranks of the too-much camp had shrunk to 47.7 percent of delegates. And the ranks of those who thought the level of foreign aid spending was "about right" had swelled to 40.7 percent.
"Support for foreign aid solidified," said Prof. James S. Fishkin of the University of Texas, who organized the $4 million convention sponsored by the University of Texas at Austin and the Presidential Libraries.
"Instead of wanting to cut it, as they did at the beginning, they wanted to maintain it after the deliberations," said Professor Fishkin. "Afterwards, when they got better information about foreign aid, they were no longer interested in cutting it." In the pre-deliberation poll, filled out by each delegate before going to Austin, 24 percent had mistakenly believed that foreign aid was the largest part of the Federal budget.
For Professor Fishkin, those shifts in thinking are evidence of the value of encouraging Americans to deliberate in a serious way so that they can make informed judgments.
The experiment in Austin included a pre-deliberation poll and briefing materials on the family, the economy and foreign policy prepared by Public Agenda and the Kettering Foundation, two research organizations. Intensive small-group discussions as well as televised forums with issue experts, four Republican Presidential candidates and Vice President Al Gore were held, and there was a post-deliberation poll at the close of the convention.
Some experts in opinion research criticized Professor Fishkin's experiment as expensive and artificial, since it is conducted in a setting that takes people out of their everyday environment.
But he said his goal was to supplement traditional survey research, not supplant it.
"Lots of polls represent top-of-the-head judgments, or even what Philip Converse -- the University of Michigan -- calls nonattitudes, or phantom opinions," he said Thursday after the results were released. "Sometimes polls communicate things where people don't have any opinion at all but they are obliging in just giving some answer to a question. And there is nothing there. Or it's very top of the head, just a vague impression of sound bites."
Delegates to the convention, a random sample that mirrors the entire country, selected by the National Opinion Research Center, which is affiliated with the University of Chicago, reached conclusions that should encourage both Democrats and Republicans in Washington
For example, Democrats who favor increasing the minimum wage should like the way support grew among delegates for this proposition: "The average worker does not receive a fair day's pay for a fair day's work."
The pre-deliberation poll found that 26.6 percent of delegates strongly agreed; 32.8 percent somewhat agreed; 29.6 percent disagreed somewhat; and 6.7 percent disagreed strongly. In the post-deliberation poll, the strongly agree group climbed to 40.4 percent and those in the agree somewhat category grew slightly to 34.6 percent. The group that disagreed somewhat dropped to 18.9 percent from 29.6 percent. And the group that disagreed strongly fell to 4.2 percent from 6.7 percent.
Republicans should be heartened by the shift in thinking about the social safety net and which level of government should control it heartening. The pre-deliberation poll found that 49.5 percent of the delegates wanted the states to handle the money and decide how much support to offer the poor. Support for that view shot up to 62.5 percent in the post-deliberation poll.
While delegates did not have specific briefing papers on the flat tax, the idea that has drawn so much attention to Steve Forbes's Republican Presidential bid, there was a drastic shift in attitudes about a flat tax.
When asked if they would prefer replacing the current graduated income tax with a single-rate flat tax, 43.5 percent of delegates in the pre-deliberation poll favored it and 43 percent opposed it. In the post-deliberation poll, support for a generic flat tax fell to 29.8 percent, opposition rose to 49.7 percent.
And the group saying they did not know what they thought rose to 20.5 percent from 13.5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS; PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARIES UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS; PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARIES UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); LIBRARIES (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: TOLLERSON, ERNEST; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



697 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Budget Rides on Optimism

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 26.

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman delivered her celebrated campaign promise to cut state income tax rates a year ahead of schedule, but she has yet to move as aggressively on her other campaign pledge to make government "smarter and smaller."
State spending has risen $700 million since Mrs. Whitman took office two years ago and she has not fully paid the cost of the $1.2 billion reduction in income tax revenues with equivalent cuts in spending. 
 Now, as Mrs. Whitman prepares to present her third state budget on Monday, she will seek to hold the line on overall spending and make some of the tough spending choices that critics say she has deferred. Much of the success of the $16 billion budget will depend on the state's economy. And almost every week there is another indicator that suggests the economy is faltering and not producing as many jobs as she had predicted her tax cuts would create.
With Republican moderates promoting Mrs. Whitman as a vice-presidential prospect, it is important that the local economy remain stable if she is to maintain her national standing and high poll ratings among New Jersey voters. On Thursday, senior Whitman administration officials, disputing recent reports that suggest a sharp downturn in the New Jersey economy, projected moderate growth in the coming year. At the same time, they revised downward their revenue forecast for the current fiscal year, which ends June 30.
Neil Upmeyer, president for the Center for Analysis of Public Issues in Princeton, N.J., said: "What she has done is to take the politically attractive route of first cutting taxes -- and by doing so, what she is doing is starving government. The problems are compounded by economic problems. And so now, she is going to have to confront the spending cuts."
In the last two years, Governor Whitman and the Legislature have been able to lower income taxes, along with some business taxes, without making huge spending cuts. They employed budgetary maneuvers that some critics say were too risky and that the Whitman administration insists were fiscally prudent. These included reducing the state's contribution to public-employee pension systems; stretching out debt payments for $1.3 billion in state transportation bonds to 20 years from 10, and pulling "surplus" dollars out of various state trust funds.
On Thursday, State Treasurer Brian Clymer said that he planned to help balance the budget by drawing $249 million in surplus funds from the state's Temporary Disability Benefit Fund general account. Both employers and employees regularly contribute to the account, which distributes benefits to disabled people for as long as to 26 weeks.
By using this fund and ordering a round of budget cuts quietly last fall, Mr. Clymer was also able to announce that the state's projected budget surplus for this fiscal year would grow to $900 million from $550 million.
But other fiscal problems remain, because the Governor and the Legislature have deferred some tough decisions. They are under pressure to replenish an expired state fund that provides $400 million for hospital care for the poor. They are also required this year to resolve the dispute over spending inequities between wealthy and poor school districts.
Mr. Clymer announced on Thursday that plans were under way for state agencies to trim more than $300 million from their budgets this year. And he has asked state commissioners to present plans showing how they would cut their budgets up to 20 percent for the new fiscal year. He said the process allowed commissioners to identify the most important services their agencies now provide taxpayers. Governor Whitman has spent much of the last two weeks studying the proposals and determining what services to keep and what to spare. Her administration is expected to unveil highlights of the spending components of her budget plan on Saturday.
In this budget, the administration is also looking to fold the Banking Department into the Department of Insurance. Until now, the Whitman administration has not taken major steps to streamline the state bureaucracy. So far, it saved $6 million by eliminating two small state agencies, the Department of Higher Education and the Department of the Public Advocate.
The Whitman administration's most successful effort to curb government spending has been in getting the state's largest public employee union late last year to agree to a four-year pact with a wage freeze in the first two years and a requirement, for the first time, for workers to pay for part of their traditional medical coverage.
Governor Whitman set the tone earlier in the year that she intended to be tough in labor talks when she flung open the tollbooths along the New Jersey Turnpike last Fourth of July weekend rather than cave into the demands of striking toll-takers.
At the same time, the administration has had little success with its ambitious plans to reduce spending by putting government services in the hands of outside contractors. Of the $60 million that the Governor had anticipated saving in this year's budget, about $10 million has been realized. The administration saved another $600,000 when employees at the New Jersey Veterans Memorial Home in Paramus came up with a plan to cut costs rather than have the veterans home turned over to an outside contractor. Plans for a private management company to take over the state's prison health system are stalled due to a dispute over the bidding of the contract.
For the most part, efforts to turn over government services to the private sector have affected state workers who were not earning large salaries. They include mostly custodians and day-care workers, as well as motor vehicle clerks who were not offered competitive wages and benefits when the Whitman administration turned over 24 regional offices of the State Department of Motor Vehicles last summer to private management companies.
The Whitman administration's inability to get large privatization efforts off the ground is one of the reasons there has not been a significant decrease in the state work force in the last two years, as had been expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNORS (79%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PRESTON, JENNIFER CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



698 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Copene-Petroquimica do Nordeste S.A. reports earnings for Qtr to Dec 31

 BODY:

** COMPANY REPORTS **	Copene-Petroquimica do Nordeste S.A.	Qtr to Dec 31	1995	1994		 	 	Revenue	334,700,000	422,900,000	Net inc	32,800,000	29,400,000	Share earns	.91	.82	Yr rev	1,433,000,000	1,549,500,000	Net inc	148,800,000	146,000,000	Share earns	4.15	4.07		 	 		 	 	
 
Copene-Petroquimica noted that the United States dollar figures for 1994 were inflation-adjusted to the purchasing power of the Brazilian Real in 1995. The adjustment led to the lower sales figure for 1995.
 
Share earnings are in American depository receipts.
 
Results are in U.S. dollars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: BRKM3 (BOVESPA) (93%); BAK (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

COMPANY: BRASKEM SA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (88%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (87%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1996



699 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7786 words

HEADLINE: Rant, Listen, Exploit, Learn, Scare, Help, Manipulate, Lead

BYLINE: By Jason DeParle; Jason DeParle, a staff writer for the Magazine, wrote about welfare in December.

 BODY:
WITH THE GOVERNMENT STILL CLOSED after 21 days, the Speaker was ready to speak. "Hobson!" he bellowed. "Either sit down and shut up or leave the room!" Normally at a caucus of the 236 House Republicans official business competes with a buzz of background conversation. But on this morning in early January, as he stood in the high-ceilinged caucus room of the Cannon Building, across from the Capitol, Newt Gingrich wanted quiet. He had said so once, politely. Now he had a 59-year-old Congressman, David L. Hobson, hurrying to his seat.
"I won't be taking questions," Gingrich continued, addressing the suddenly silent room. He had heard plenty the previous day, when he first told other House Republicans of his plan to reopen the Government. With his party bearing the brunt of the public's pique, Gingrich wanted services restored, at least partly, until the middle of March. But the caucus was on the verge of rebellion. 
 Many of the firebrand freshmen who had been his source of strength were now complaining that Gingrich was giving away too much. Without the pressures of a Government shutdown, they argued, President Clinton would have no incentive to sign their balanced budget plan. And that -- with its mix of tax cuts and spending reductions and its profound reordering of Government authority -- was their reason for being in Washington.
But Republican moderates, perhaps two dozen in the House and more in the Senate, wanted a full resumption of Government services -- and not just through the winter but for an entire year. Moreover, they hinted at joining the Democrats to get it. The conflicts were threatening to derail Gingrich's self-styled "revolution" and diminish him as its paramount leader.
Gingrich had absorbed the complaints the previous day in small gatherings and then in a sour, disorderly caucus that spilled two and a half hours into the evening. Now he was back with a revised plan, a partial reopening, but only through late January. And he offered it on defiant take-it-or-leave-it terms.
"I realize that many of you believe you have a better approach, and that if you were Speaker, you'd do it differently," Gingrich told the caucus. But if you don't like the job I'm doing, he continued, "run against me." And what's more, if "you don't like the job we're doing" -- meaning the entire House leadership, symbolically seated behind him -- "run against us."
In the meantime, Gingrich cautioned, remember that any successful plan has to pass not only the House but the Senate, where Republicans are less dominant. "We've checked the Constitution," he added sardonically. "And for the rest of the session there's going to be a Senate. We've checked! It's going to be there."
Over the past year the House Republicans had seen their volatile Speaker in emotional states that ranged from beer-guzzling exaltation to teary gratefulness to somber defeat. But they had never seen this. Gingrich said "there won't be any discipline" directed at those who oppose him, but by saying so he hinted otherwise. He warned that those who dissent on this vote should never complain about others who abandon "the team." He planned to "keep a list." Then, with the pointedness of his first outburst, Gingrich stalked out of the room.
The meeting was over. And so, for now, were the threats to his authority. The freshman class president, Roger Wicker of Mississippi, was leading a standing ovation. A few hours later the Gingrich plan was approved by the House. The Speaker was still in control of his grand conservative scheme. "He's held them together pretty well, on a course that I have often disagreed with," President Clinton said a week later, speaking of Gingrich and the freshmen. "You must give him credit for that."
It has been a remarkable development, this transformation of Newton Leroy Gingrich from a back-bench troublemaker to a legislative leader, maybe even one of historic consequence. In a single year Gingrich has driven the President to present four successive budgets, each with deeper cuts and a different political identity. Clinton's first plan envisioned annual deficits of $200 billion and more, as far as the eye could see. His latest, at least theoretically, reaches balance by the year 2002. "Let me say, we have come a long way," Clinton also said, referring to himself and the Republican Congress. "We have come very close together, I believe."
But is that a boast? Or a confession? The significance of Clinton's journey lies inot just in the math but also in the shift of underlying aspirations. Where fiscal discipline has won, his activist agenda has lost. Gone is the talk of greater public investment; gone is the talk of universal health care. Now the President fights a rear-guard action simply to preserve victories won a generation ago, like the Medicaid entitlement for the poor. He came to office promising welfare families new opportunities to work or be trained for work. By the fall, his own proposal, like the Republicans', agreed to strip poor children of the right to Federal aid they have held for 60 years.
There's only one way of explaining the change -- Gingrich. He is pilloried in the press. He plunges in the polls. But he dominates the capital's agenda as few legislators have before him. It has been no easy feat. In capping his unlikely rise to Speaker, Gingrich has had to lead the thinnest House majority in 40 years, and one with scores of potential fissures. He would have to bring together all-or-nothing freshmen and moderate veterans, Western deregulators and Eastern environmentalists, pro-life forces and their pro-choice enemies, the family-values right and the libertarian right. In starting the 104th Congress with a margin of only 12 members, and a Democratic minority that despised him, Gingrich went into each vote with the potential for deadly defections.
Yet inside the Capitol he won -- again, again and again. On the nightly news, Gingrich still appeared in his familiar guise, as a bombastic bomb thrower with a series of charges against him pending before the ethics committee. But inside the House, Gingrich mastered a succession of more challenging roles. He played New Age therapist and old-school dealmaker. He was a diplomat, a policy wonk and a back-room boss. By the end of the year he had pushed his sweeping agenda through not only the House but the swamps of the Senate as well. He had defied the conventional wisdom about entitlements, special interest groups and legislative gridlock.
The question now is whether he can secure the one prize that eludes him: Clinton's signature on a balanced budget. Left alone, Gingrich and Clinton might be tempted to split the narrowing differences between them. For that reason they will not be left alone. Instead, they are closely flanked by their respective ideological stewards. For Gingrich, that ultimately means the freshmen. With 74 members, they constitute nearly a third of the Republican caucus, and are distinctive not just for their numbers but for their rawness. Only half have ever held elective office; three-quarters came to Washington with no legislative experience. They will not easily swallow the word "compromise," even if it comes from their own leader's lips. While the freshman fervor has brought Gingrich tantalizingly close, it may also prevent a final deal.
During the run up to the State of the Union, Gingrich refused even to return to the table. Mindful of the hard-liners whose support he had only narrowly maintained, he demanded that Clinton first make further public capitulations on Medicare and taxes. By the curious calculus that had taken hold, it was Clinton now demanding a deal. If he could get one (without completely alienating his left-liberal base), he would rob the Republicans of the charge they would fling against him all fall: fiscal irresponsibility.
"I heard the Republican Congress say over and over again, 'We have to balance the budget, we have to balance the budget -- why won't the President agree to balance the budget in seven years?' " Clinton said. If the Speaker would only break free of the zealots and come to the White House, "we could do this in 15 minutes."
 MASTER OF THE MOMENT OR CAPTIVE OF HIS movement -- which will Gingrich prove to be? In an hourlong talk at the end of the year, Gingrich, seeming bled of his usual animation, tried to put his best face on the rumblings of discontent. "The troops did not rebel on me," he said. "Some days you have 236 people in leadership." In occasional conversations over the past five months, and in his public appearances, he has presented a bewildering array of personas. He could be wickedly funny, as he was in October at Liberty University when he lampooned liberalism with a script that could work on "Saturday Night Live." The founders guaranteed the pursuit of happiness, he said, not "happiness quotients, happiness set-asides, the Federal Department of Happiness."
He could be intellectually seductive, displaying a more subtle understanding of government than his public demagoguery implied. He could be mischievous, confiding during the first Government shutdown, in November, that he was opening the House gym, even while closing passport offices and the Grand Canyon. ("You don't want these guys here if they don't have the gym open. They will eat each other alive.")
He could also be pompous and self-promoting, and often was, describing his efforts to balance the budget as "truly one of the most amazing political decisions in modern America." At times he would erupt like a geyser of bile, denouncing his detractors as "grotesque," "liars," "vicious" and "corrupt."
It is this unique blend of statecraft and snake oil that makes Gingrich so compelling to watch. And so confusing. He is endlessly asking the President to behave like an "adult" while wallowing in his own adolescent fits. The voters seem baffled as well, drawn to his vision of a caring conservatism yet spooked by the glibness of his orphanage talk. They embrace his goal of a balanced budget even while last month driving his approval ratings to a recordlow of 29 percent. "I'm not a natural leader," Gingrich said. "I'm a natural intellectual gadfly."
Or so he would have us think. But though he strides about in neckties decorated with rare-book motifs, his professorial posings are grist for parody. ("These are the best of times and the worst of times, as Charles Dickens wrote" -- so begins his million-dollar manifesto, "To Renew America.") Gingrich lacks the nuance needed to be more than a second-class scholar, but he has the drive and the strategic vision of a first-rate politician. His brilliance is not as a thinker but as a doer, a toppler of established regimes.
Shortly after the 1994 elections, William Kristol, then a leading conservative strategist, wrote a memo warning Republicans against unrealistic expectations. Despite the party's decisive success at the polls, he wrote, agendas still get set in the White House. Gingrich sent back a short note, citing a freshman Speaker who plunged the nation into war: Henry Clay, 1812. Gingrich is fighting the domestic policy equivalent, with a Democratic enemy ahead and fervent -- or will it be too fervent? -- allies at his side.
THE SPEAKER'S BUDGET GENERALS WERE STILL heady with their new, improbable power in January 1995 when Gingrich summoned them to a small dinner in his Capitol suite. He predicted that it would prove among the year's most important meetings. For ages Republicans had talked about balancing the budget. Then they had swelled their ranks with freshmen pledging to do the same. Now scanning the room, Gingrich said that only these few committee chairmen, each chosen by him, could make it happen. He wanted a report on the struggle ahead.
John Kasich, the animated chairman of the Budget Committee, spoke frankly about the difficulties of financing a tax cut. Bill Archer offered the Ways and Means forecast of future revenues. Robert Livingston issued a note of caution. The hundreds of programs now under his purview at the Appropriations Committee had strong constituents; cutting them wasn't "going to be peaches and cream." Gingrich said little as the presentations unfolded, but Livingston's remarks were his cue.
"Bob, that's all fine, but I have one question for you," he said, pausing for effect. "Are you up to it?" Emphatically so, Livingston said, and so did everyone else present as Gingrich solicited their pledges. Gingrich concluded by hailing the Wilderness Campaign, in which Ulysses S. Grant held his ground with the words the Speaker keeps framed on his mantel: "I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer."
The historical allusions, the brotherly bonds, the call to glory with the tinge of threat -- these are signatures of the Gingrich style, and he used them to lay the groundwork for the year's central event: the drive to balance the budget. Reflecting on the moment a year later, Gingrich explained that he had called the meeting so his chairmen "would have a team approach," rather than retiring to the "independent fiefdoms" that had plagued Democratic Houses.
But for all the professions of blood loyalty, the budget generals were still talking budget generalities. The decision actually to write a balanced budget was not reached until weeks later. And it came like most of the year's major developments -- with a shove from Gingrich. In February, the Senate narrowly defeated a constitutional amendment that would have required a balanced budget in seven years. The freshmen had felt so strongly that they marched on the Senate to urge the amendment's passage. Knowing he would have their support, Gingrich stood up at a news conference and announced that he would put together a seven-year plan anyway.
Kasich flew into a leadership meeting and bounced off the walls. "Where is it written in stone," he asked, that the House would produce a seven-year plan? With the boisterous leaders gathered in the room, Gingrich put it to a vote: who wants to write it in stone? Every arm flew up but Kasich's. (Gingrich later honored the moment by handing Kasich an inscribed stone.) It was a characteristic Gingrich step -- for weeks he had cultivated the consensus, then he forced it to congeal. "It's an old F.D.R.-Reagan technique," he later remarked. "If you plant it out there hard enough, the rest of the guys decide it must be real."
Throughout the spring Gingrich would compare his budget moves to the invention of Higgins boats, the landing craft that made D-Day possible. A few years after the design took shape in an eccentric shipbuilder's mind, 20,000 boats floated into action. In devising his own mathematical formula -- zero in seven -- Gingrich had proved every bit as inventive as Andrew Higgins. He had managed to reduce hundreds of political questions to a single compelling symbol, easily explained to the public. Its appeal, Gingrich said, is "mythic."
It's also completely arbitrary. Though Gingrich has manufactured various rationalizations, there's not an economist in the country who could seriously argue for seven years, as opposed to six or eight or nine. Privately, Republican budget aides are more frank: seven years is merely an accident of a 1993 plan to reach balance by century's end. Yet vital decisions on virtually every Government function -- and perhaps the shape of the '96 Presidential campaign -- would be framed by this magic number.
For Gingrich, the appeal was not only fiscal but political: it gave him cover to raid the programmatic redoubts of liberalism, which he had conspired against for decades. "It changes the whole game," he said last month. "You cannot sustain the old welfare state inside a balanced budget."
Wary at first, Robert Dole, the Senate majority leader and Republican Presidential front runner, put forward his own seven-year plan. Invisible for months, President Clinton gradually beamed himself back into view with the assurance that he was a zero-in-seven man too. Late in the spring he abandoned his deficit-laden proposal for one that would reach balance in 10 years. By December he had a seven-year plan. A month later he was back with a seven-year plan that used more stringent Congressional economic assumptions.
Campaigning in Nashville a few weeks ago, Clinton sounded incredulous that anyone would have it any other way. "To put off balancing the budget because we have some disagreements," he said, "that's wrong!"
WHILE GINGRICH HAS WIELDED ExtraordInary influence, he grabbed the Speaker's gavel as no ordinary boss. He had delivered House Republicans from four decades of exile, and as the Democratic leader, Richard Gephardt, has observed, "When you've been in the desert for 40 your instinct is to help Moses." As candidates, the freshmen had trained on his tapes and run on his Contract With America, and most regarded him with awe. Sonny Bono, the pop star turned Palm Springs Mayor turned freshman legislator, appeared in November for what was billed as a Gingrich roast. "But I can't roast Newt," Bono told the crowd in Marietta, Ga. Instead, he recalled the "magic" of his first encounter with Gingrich. "Everything he felt and everything he said and everything he believed, I believed."
Roger Wicker is no less admiring as he ponders the subject of Gingrich. He is driving from Tupelo to Jackson during the recent Congressional recess, a trip he used to make every week as a Mississippi state senator. "Since 1987, I have listened, driving up and down this Natchez Trace, to every single Gopac tape -- without exception," he says. (Gopac, of course, was Gingrich's political action committee. The Federal Election Commission is now suing the organization, charging that it violated campaign laws.) The audiotapes were Gingrich's connection to countless local politicians, many of whom, like Wicker, he had scarcely met.
When Wicker decided to run for Congress, the Gingrich tapes not only offered the broad themes, they even told him how to color-code brochures for effective literature drops. "I wish -- I wish I could get you this tape," Wicker suddenly exclaims, recalling how moved he had been while listening to Gingrich talk about freedom reaching the East bloc. Though he is president of a class that sometimes seems cultish in its passions, Wicker has a mildly independent streak. He once defied the Mississippi Governor, Kirk Fordice, by helping Democrats override the Republican veto of a sales-tax increase. But he does not sound modulated when he talks about his Speaker. "Newt Gingrich is a genius. Have I told you I think Newt Gingrich is the Winston Churchill of our age?"
But Gingrich understood that adulation could be an uncertain ally. Though he had taught the freshmen many things, discipline was not among them. Even before their swearing-in, the freshmen were overturning apple carts. They helped abolish "legislative service organizations," the taxpayer-financed caucuses that more experienced lawmakers had relied on. They ended the commemorative resolutions that wasted staff time and money -- no more National Dairy Goat Awareness Week. These were marginal causes but indicative of larger rebellions to come. When Gingrich moved to put term limits on chairmen, the freshmen put one (of eight years) on him as well. "Term limits for the Speaker -- that was a freshman initiative," Wicker says. "There was a determination within the class not to be like some of the other so-called reform classes" -- that is, co-opted by the leadership.
Knowing that his charismatic authority would always have its limits, Gingrich sought the more durable handles of institutional control. His predecessor, Thomas Foley, had inherited a House where power had been flowing away from the Speaker for nearly 80 years -- first to autocratic committee chairmen, and then, in an attempt at democratization, to subcommittee heads who themselves soon proved adept at empire building. With bold strokes, Gingrich felled the tradition of committee autonomy and restored power to the place it had resided a century ago during the notorious reigns of Thomas Brackett Reed and Joe Cannon: the Speaker's office.
Discarding the sacred institution of seniority, Gingrich put his allies in charge of the key committees: Livingston at Appropriations, Thomas Bliley at Commerce and Henry Hyde at Judiciary. Then he limited their ability to amass independent power by packing their committees with his own shock troops. As the political scientist Walter J. Oleszek has noted, freshmen were at the front of the line, winning 9 of 10 open seats on Commerce, 7 of 11 on Appropriations and 3 of 10 on Ways and Means. Backed by the freshmen, Gingrich not only put term limits on chairmen but also abolished their right to cast proxy votes, further weakening their status.
At times Gingrich simply ordered committees to rewrite their bills. He demanded that Commerce make its telecommunications law more favorable to the Baby Bells; he ordered Ways and Means to back off from an assault on ethanol. On other occasions Gingrich simply circumvented committees, putting together Speaker's task forces to draw up legislative proposals. When the Democrats complained that Hyde was pushing the Contract With America through his committee too fast, he flatly advertised his subordinate status. "I'm really a subchairman," he said, words his predecessors would never have uttered.
Among the places the changes were apparent was in the Appropriations Committee, where both Gingrich and his freshmen asserted unusual control. Gingrich began the year demanding loyalty letters from the 13 subcommittee chairmen, whose previous authority had been so august they were known as "cardinals." By the summer, young members were larding Livingston's spending bills with legislative riders, most famously one by Ernest Jim Istook, a sophomore, and David McIntosh, a freshman, to restrict lobbying by groups that receive Federal funds. Livingston was so miffed he called Gingrich from the hearing, waking him up in a California hotel room. Gingrich listened sympathetically but refused to call the freshmen off.
In October, Livingston tried to banish Mark Neumann to the subcommittee equivalent of Siberia after the freshman thumbed his nose at him on an important vote. As word spread, a delegation of freshmen arrived in Gingrich's office, demanding and receiving redress. (Neumann wound up with a prized seat on the Budget Committee.) "The thing that upset the freshmen was the idea that a reform-minded class could be housebroken," says Wicker, who was in the middle of the negotiations.
Gingrich says the reductions in committee authority were needed to get the House working again. "You had independent, isolated fiefdoms that weren't part of the larger system," he says. It wasn't "just anti-democratic, it was also anti-productive, anti-competent." There's no doubt that the old system was broken -- or that his solution further consolidated his power. With the committees vanquished, the ultimate policy-making apparatus became something called "S.A.G.," the Speaker's Advisory Group, whose seven members were selected by Gingrich himself.
Gingrich proved equally deft at harnessing power off the Hill. He had never been shy about soliciting campaign contributions. Before the 1994 elections, Gingrich warned recalcitrant donors that they could face "the two coldest years in Washington" if they did not come around, according to an account in The Washington Post. Once in power his lieutenants followed through with a bluntness notable even by Washington standards. Contributors to the campaign of a defeated Washington Democrat received solicitation letters from the House whip, Tom DeLay, offering "the opportunity to work toward a positive future relationship." Political action committees found themselves rated in DeLay's ledger -- "friendly," "neutral" or "unfriendly." The cash piled up to record highs.
So, it seems, did the access of the friendliest donors. Before the new majority had even been sworn in, an extraordinary array of business lobbyists had convened in DeLay's office to push Project Relief, a moratorium on Federal regulations. With DeLay's backing, they got it (though the measure failed to pass the Senate). In rewriting employee safety regulations and clean-water standards, the lobbyists worked so closely with House aides that the distinction sometimes blurred; on at least one occasion the corporate representative even sat at the committee dais. Meanwhile, the lobbying bill that Gingrich had promised languished until late in the year, when it was pried loose with the help of freshman reformers.
In sum, Gingrich had assembled an extraordinary political machine, and it handed him a string of successes. He passed 31 bills in the first 93 days, covering 9 of the 10 proposals outlined in the Contract With America. (Only term limits went down to defeat.) To be sure, many of the bills were minor in scope, like a paperwork-reduction act. And only three have actually become law. But the Contract victories gave Gingrich what he most wanted -- the sense of inexorable momentum. Given the coming budget fight, he knew he would need it.
IT IS A CRISP FALL DAY IN WOODSTOCK, GA., AND Gingrich is sitting in the back room of the 1904 Restaurant, dining on Norman Rockwell coziness and fried rainbow trout. Framed by the famous white helmet of hair, his face acts as a mood ring. It flushes easily to convey outrage, but it can also soften into something approaching charm. At times it stretches into a wacky grad-student grin, gap-toothed in the style of Alfred E. Neuman, as he holds forth on space aliens or Tyrannosaurus rex. At the moment, it is tight-lipped and guarded.
The first question is an obvious one: what accounts for this legislative success? The answer bounces back at a strange angle. Gingrich does not mention the Contract, the freshmen, the committees or the cash. Rather, he sounds as if he were reading a business-school syllabus. He talks of "vision, strategy, projects and tactics" and the need to "listen, learn, help and lead." He concludes with a board-room flourish: "The system of those eight words actually gives us an enormous technological edge over our competitors."
There comes a time for every Gingrich-watcher to decide what, if anything, he has in mind by his constant recitation of "those eight words." Listen, learn, help, lead? But there he is, the nation's premier autodidact, touting more management tracts than an airport bookstore and telling everyone who will listen how he culled from them his eight easy steps for ruling America. Gingrich is so caught up in his leadership theories that he has assigned a former furniture executive, Peter Hoekstra of Michigan, to march each House Republican through a "listen, learn" seminar. The handouts propagate such slogans as, "Our Leading Model Drives Our Planning" and "Our Planning Model Helps Us Lead."
The tendency, of course, is to scoff. ("I've seen enough rolling of the eyes," Hoekstra says. "Oh, yeah, I've seen it, I've seen it.") Certainly part of this shtick is designed for public consumption: Gingrich would rather be seen as W. Edwards Deming than Boss Tweed. But in truth he's a bit of both: a machine pol with a New Age touch. The strategic prowess behind his march to power is by now widely appreciated. What's less well known is his executive skill. He has proven extraordinarily deft at brokering disputes, building consensus and keeping his fragile coalition together. "Newt is the best listener in America," says John Boehner, the fourth-ranking House Republican. The observation is seconded throughout the House.
The notion of Gingrich as a listener takes some getting used to. Can this be the same guy who begins lunch in Woodstock by denouncing a local cartoonist as "viciously hateful" and "totally sick"? Yet however incendiary Gingrich remains in public, among his fellow Republicans he typically plays a conciliatory role, keeping the warring parties at the table. He says he urges them to develop an "appreciative understanding" of their differences, a technique honed in a 60-hour seminar with Deming himself. "I don't do it because I like it," Gingrich says. "I do it because it works."
The stories of Gingrich as resident House therapist are legion. Some freshmen demanded a quick execution for the National Endowment for the Arts; the moderates wanted a period of transition to private financing. Gingrich brokered a compromise by asking each to recite the concerns of the other. He used a similar approach when drafting the Contract provisions on welfare. One side wanted to abolish aid for young mothers; another wanted to make them work for it. "It's almost like he would advise both sides," says one of the combatants. "But he'd say, 'Be fair, keep the conversation going.' You go out of the room 90 percent inspired to do it, and 10 percent afraid not to."
The stories point to Gingrich's skills, but also to his elasticity. Do we strip poor children of Federal aid or do we not? Gingrich replies, in effect: whichever approach will win more votes. It wasn't until the freshmen balked at reopening the Government that others caught on to what the caucus had long known: its most publicly ideological leader was the most privately pragmatic.
Thus, at crucial moments in the past year it fell to Gingrich to rein in the revolution he had wrought. House conservatives were adamant about turning food stamps into a block grant. End Federal control! Send it to the states! The Governors are with us -- no one can stop us now! But Gingrich was not convinced he could get moderates on board. He settled the issue with a lecture on the Battle of Arnhem, where the British lost a paratroop division by driving too far into Nazi-held territory in the Netherlands. Block-granting food stamps, he said, would place Republicans on their own "bridge too far." The changes to welfare they had already proposed were going to create enough battles. The prescience of his analysis became clear a few weeks later when the welfare bill got hung up on other food-policy issues. "He even directed it at me," says Dick Armey, the House majority leader. "Because we had had such incredible success, I was a little slower to pick up on the point."
IF GINGRICH DOES GET caught on a bridge too far, it's likely to bear the name Medicare. In seeking to reduce spending for the sacrosanct program by $270 billion, he ignored the advice of party leaders, who urged him to wait until after the 1996 elections. The program is too popular with the elderly, warned Haley Barbour, the Republican chairman, and the elderly pay attention and vote. "Medicare was the only thing we touched this year that could kill us," Gingrich said. "I've thought about it every day."
Gingrich insists that his motive is simply "to save" Medicare from future fiscal distress. To be sure, its costs were unconstrained and the Administration had dropped its fight to restrain them. But Boehner, the conference chairman, is more forthcoming. Without the Medicare savings, it would be impossible to balance the budget and preserve the substantial tax cut that serves as the coalition's glue. "If we're going to successfully balance the budget, we've got to deal with Medicare," Boehner said. "Now nobody disagreed with that."
In pushing his Medicare plan through Congress, Gingrich drew on his full array of formidable powers. One moment he turned policy wonk, mastering the arcana of health policy; the next he was in his spinmeister mode -- denouncing reporters who referred to reductions in growth rates as "cuts." He understood that the Clinton health plan had died in committee, with detail after detail picked apart. Gingrich designed his with a task force of his choosing, presenting it to the full committees as a fait accompli.
As the plan took shape the oddest noise in Washington was the sound of silence. Though the Government was planning to restrain its health spending by hundreds of billions of dollars, the interest groups did not publicly object. Behind the scenes, Gingrich was playing a textbook game of carrots and sticks. While each major player had something to lose, each also had something to gain. Doctors would get smaller increases in fees, but Gingrich offered them the chance to compete with insurance companies. The insurance companies did not want the competition, but Gingrich gave them new products to sell in a more open Medicare market. On and on it went, deftly calculated.
Gingrich cites the months he spent with health care executives as the supreme example of his willingness "to listen." But the corollary was, "No public dissent," as Gingrich made apparent from the start. Months before the final details were clear, the American Hospital Association was ringing the usual Washington alarms with ads that accused individual members of conspiring to "devastate Medicare." The group found itself shut out of meetings and publicly denounced, its members chased after in letters. Everyone in town got the message. "We knew exactly what we had to do," Boehner said, popping a fist into his hand. "We had to smack 'em."
But there would be none of that talk in public. Policy types debated whether health programs could sustain a cut -- er, make that a "reduction in the rate of growth" -- that would reach nearly half a trillion dollars. (That's $270 billion in Medicare savings, plus $180 billion in Medicaid, though Gingrich has since retreated on both numbers.)
But to a member, the Republicans stayed in line with a carefully formulated message. Boehner says: "We tested it and found out that if you talked about balancing the budget and Medicare in the same sentence, you were asking for trouble. Big trouble." Gingrich said, "We learned that if you talked about 'preserving' and 'protecting' Medicare, it worked."
IT IS A FRIDAY NIGHT IN A disheveled Virginia office suite across the Potomac. The fluorescent lights paint the air a pale green, and all is silent except for Newt Gingrich, who is railing against the welfare state. "By creating a culture of poverty, we have destroyed the very people we are claiming to help," he says, glowing larger than life on the oversize television in the office of Frank Luntz, the pollster. "Caring for people is not synonymous with caretaking for people."
Colored lines crawl across Gingrich's face -- blue for Democrats, yellow for Republicans and red for independents, who have registered their approval or disapproval in a focus group, using an electronic dial. Luntz leans forward in anticipation. "Here it comes -- bang!" he says. And "bang" is right: all three squiggles leap in appreciation of the Gingrich line. Gingrich's aides have heard the line so often they have turned it into a joke. "I care for you, but I don't take care of you," they tease.
Gingrich's scientifically honed oratory has been central to one of his signal achievements: legitimizing the assault on the antipoverty budget. While Gingrich fought his Medicare battle clause by clause, he attacked welfare from the air, with sound bites that turned traditional arguments on their heads. Ronald Reagan attacked poor people for abusing the programs; Gingrich attacks the programs for abusing the poor. Asked about the tactic, Gingrich smiles and replies, "You cracked the code."
The Gingrich approach not only bathes him in the soft light of compassion, it also creates a logical momentum for deeper and deeper cuts. The less we spend, the more we care! The leader of the Democratic opposition to the cuts, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, decries the strategy as an "Orwellian perversion" but ruefully acknowledges its success. "You'll hear it in our Democratic caucus," he says. "We are liberating you, breaking your chains!"
Of course, Gingrich's attempts to recast this debate are as old as his Congressional career. The very name of his original caucus, the Conservative Opportunity Society, was a semantic counterpoise to the three words Gingrich strove to discredit: Liberal Welfare State. As with Medicare, Gingrich's welfare plan awaits the signature of a suddenly resolute Clinton. But even Gingrich seems surprised at how fast and how far he has come. "I thought we'd be in more trouble on hurting the poor," he says. "More like '81-'82 with Reagan."
In fashioning his bill, Gingrich certainly reached beyond the usual circle of experts. One of the odder episodes involved a management consultant named Morris Shechtman, who contributed the "caring-caretaking" phrase. Shortly after the 1994 elections, Gingrich's staff tracked him down in Ecuador and asked him to conduct a daylong seminar. "The point I make in my lecture is that the people who are really crippling Americans in large numbers are the old do-gooders," Shechtman says. He called on welfare recipients to join those who "grieve the unbundling of caretaking" and develop better "change-management skills."
The oddity of it all was classic. After all, in December 1994, Gingrich was about the busiest man on earth. "And here we take a day off to bring in an industrial psychiatrist," Gingrich says. "Totally aberrational from what you thought of as traditional American politics."
The pollsters may have been less aberrational, but they were every bit as helpful. When Gingrich's poverty plans first encountered flak -- in March, over proposed changes to the school-lunch program -- members needed to be reassured that they weren't coming off as stingy or mean. The leadership sent pollsters from the Wirthlin Group to Cleveland for further "pulse line" research. Richard Wirthlin, Reagan's former pollster, appeared before the caucus a few days later for a talk on how to talk poverty. In an accompanying memo, Wirthlin urged members to continue to "redefine compassion," and he listed 13 "power phrases" that would help. "When Rep. Dunn" -- Jennifer Dunn of Washington -- "uses the word 'hope,' her score moves up (+20)," Wirthlin wrote.
At the same time, Luntz was testing a Gingrich speech, and he compiled a highlights tape of similar winning phrases. He showed it to House members and distributed a transcript, though much of the talk had already been drummed into the freshmen through the Gopac tapes. Seeing the video, the members "wanted to use the same language," Luntz says. "It's almost like a child wanting to replicate what his or her parents do. I showed perhaps 180 members, and now there are 180 Newt clones."
Hyperbole notwithstanding, the Gingrich oratory took root in the least expected quarters. Perhaps no convert was as unlikely as Christopher Shays, a former Peace Corps volunteer and a main co-sponsor of Clinton's national service bill. As recently as 1990, Shays says, "I had such a strong dislike" for Gingrich that "I would have rejoiced if he'd been defeated."
It was a Gingrich speech that changed his mind -- this one delivered in 1991, at a hotel in Trumbull, Conn. Shays calls it the first time he heard Gingrich decry "12-year-olds having babies and 15-year-olds selling drugs and 18-year-olds who can't read their diplomas." He drove home in a state of shock. "Oh, my gosh," he told his wife. "I agree with the guy."
While many House Republicans might seem to be targets for Gingrich's glib talk, one wouldn't expect to find Shays among them. But that is the beauty of Gingrich's approach: by relentlessly attacking what he's against -- "12-year-olds having babies and 15-year-olds selling drugs" -- he does not have to state, never mind defend, what he is actually for. As the welfare bill headed to the floor, leadership aides armed every member with a list of horrifying anecdotes, including the case of a 4-month-old boy "who bled to death when bitten more than 100 times by the family's pet rat." Let the Democrats defend that!
Though no one seemed to notice, Gingrich's own plan rapidly changed to fit the financial and political needs of the moment. The bill he endorsed in 1993 would have cost an additional $20 billion to put welfare mothers to work. The one he got passed last year sliced $12 billion from welfare over seven years and nearly $90 billion from other antipoverty programs. It allows states to cut off families whether the parents are willing to work or not. What accounts for the sweeping change? "This is a bolder bill," Gingrich says. "I don't know the details."
Shays does know the details, and he admits that "there's a part of me that wonders if it's as well thought out as I'd like it to be." But, he adds, "I'll take almost any alternative over what we've got now." And on the day the measure passed the House, Shays was standing at Gingrich's side, paying homage with the familiar phrases. "What I had to wrestle with was, in my heart I thought I was a caring person," he said. "But I realized I was a caretaking person. And today, what we have shown is that we are a caring country." And then the unlikely convert concluded with the least likely words: "Newt Gingrich is my hero."
THE ELDERLY WOMAN AT A TUPELO bank does not share that view this January morning as her Congressman enters the lobby. Spying Roger Wicker, she chides him for the Government closing that could delay her husband's monthly military pension check. She has been leaving that message at his office.
"I got a letter thanking me for my kind words, and I thought maybe you didn't get my message," she says. "I wouldn't call them kind words." Nor did the aide who took the call, and wrote in the file: "She'll never vote for RW again. 'Cut your own pay instead of poor people.' "
But before Wicker leaves the lobby he is approached once more, this time by a young man in jeans holding a bag of change from the convenience store where he works as a manager. "Wanna let you know how much we appreciate you fightin' for us on the budget," he says. "If that's what it takes, shut it all down. We don't need to be spending our children's money."
There, in two minutes, is the crux of the budget battle: "hands off" versus "right on." The oddity of it is that each of the protagonists, Gingrich and Clinton, thinks the public is on his side. And each has a plausible case. There's no doubt, as Gingrich understands, that the public wants the budget balanced -- in theory. There's also no doubt that people don't want their own programs gored, least of all the elderly and their interest groups.
But that is merely the ancient impasse; what's remarkable about Gingrich is how close he has come to breaking it. As Gingrich mulls over whether to balk or to talk, he faces twin dangers. One is that he will lose his caucus. The other is that he will lose the country. For all his genius in plumbing the public mood, Gingrich may have misread Americans' feeling about the Government they love to hate.
Throughout the fall he baited conservative audiences with a twist on the old lefty chant: what if we closed the Government and no one noticed? At Liberty University in October, Gingrich offered a forecast of the showdown to come. If the Democrats don't go along, he swaggered, then "fine, they won't have any money to run the parts of the Government they like, and we'll see what happens." What happened was that the public got mad, Gingrich's popularity plunged and Clinton's suddenly hit a 22-month high.
Needing a tactical retreat, Gingrich had to pull out all the stops to bring his caucus -- which is to say, his freshmen -- with him. As he stood before his troops, Gingrich argued that the shutdown had been "a failed strategy." But a substantial group of freshmen disagreed. And Clinton isn't the only one wondering if "the tail will keep wagging the dog over there."
Though some freshmen applauded early this month when Gingrich threw down the gauntlet and stalked out of the room, others seethed. Many stayed and expressed outrage at the Speaker's unveiled threats. When they caucused among themselves at noon, a number were still talking of opposing him in the afternoon vote to reopen the Government. After all, Gingrich himself had warned them a year ago that when the going got tough, their poll numbers would drop. (He even brought in Michigan's Governor, John Engler, to describe how his own approval rating had bottomed out below 20 percent after he pushed through deep budget cuts. He later rebounded to win a second term.) Now Gingrich was counseling retreat. Seeing the vote in peril, Wicker abandoned the class president's gavel for the first time in a year and argued the Speaker's cause.
"If a rump group of dissidents had managed to derail" the plan, he said, Gingrich "would have been severely wounded." In the end, 12 freshmen (and 3 other Republicans) voted against him -- a minority, but not a negligible one.
It turns out that Gingrich did keep "a list." In the past few weeks, he canceled every scheduled fund-raising event for a freshman voting against him. "An outrageous step," says David McIntosh, a freshman liaison to the leadership. "He has to stop this crybaby attitude with people who don't agree with him." That's not the sound of freshman deference.
Asked a few weeks after the vote where Gingrich stood with the freshmen, Wicker said, "Fine." But he added, laughing, "I guess the majority of freshmen would prefer that the leadership had dug in several billion ago." Message to Newt: You'd better dig in.
Sitting in his office one evening at the end of the year, Gingrich explains that he had spent his Christmas holiday "reading volume two of Churchill's wartime correspondence, just to reimmerse myself in someone who was a great leader at a moment of enormous stress." Gingrich reads history the way others might read plumbing manuals, hungry for how-to tips, and while he does not explicitly elevate himself to Churchill's ranks, the suggestion seems to hang in the air.
At the time, Gingrich won't even contemplate a new year in which Clinton doesn't sign a Congressional budget. "I won't, I won't -- no, we will get a budget." But that's before the talks break off, the freshmen grow bold and the Speaker becomes publicly pessimistic.
Would the freshmen prove an impediment in the end?
Gingrich grows snappish and says he has been defying predictions of crackups all year. "Let me tell you what I said to the President this summer, and the reason I spent Christmas weekend reading Churchill's wartime papers," he says. "There's no freshman more committed to getting to a balanced budget than I am.
"It would be like saying to Churchill in '40, 'We think there's somebody in Parliament more committed to victory than you.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: The spell of team spirit: Gingrich takes a timeout from the business at hand to autograph his boys' toys. (pg. 34-35); "Less is more" is the Speaker's message: the less we spend, the more we care. (pg. 37); When Newt talks, he makes sure everyone listens - Democrates, Republicans, the press, the world. (pg. 38); Push comes to shove: During the battle of the budget Gingrich cultivated a consensus and forced it to congeal. (pg. 39); Seven-year men: Dole, Gingrich, Clinton - they've all embraced 2002 as zero hour for a balanced budget. (pg. 40); The Washington Monument and the man who hopes to go down in history as a Washington monument. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BURNETT/CONTACT, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICANS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) HOUSE REPUBLICANS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ABORTION; ENVIRONMENT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); DEREGULATION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) NEWT GINGRICH (92%); DAVID L HOBSON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



700 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 46; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1782 words

HEADLINE: UNEMPLOYMENT: The Theme Park

BYLINE: By John Brant; John Brant lives in Portland, Ore. He writes frequently for Outside, Runner's World and other magazines.

 BODY:
FALLING ON ANY OTHER PLEASURE TOUR, TODAY'S STEADY RAIN would create a mud-splattering, off-putting nuisance. Here in Johnstown, Pa., however, at the bleak remains of Bethlehem Steel's once-mighty Franklin works, this dank drizzle seems an apt and timely prop for Charlie Zilch's hard story.
A barrel-chested, weathered man with a gentle voice and manner, Zilch graduated a week earlier from a program that trains displaced steelworkers and coal miners to become guides in the very places where they once labored. The son, grandson and great-grandson of Johnstown steelworkers, Zilch, 62, now works the tourist trade, joining in his city's curious and quietly radical passage from a place that makes things to a place that remembers. 
 Positioning himself in the rain, he arranges his 20 attentive visitors -- today, mostly other former working people from the region -- in a semicircle under the shelter of the plant's former time-clock gate. For $10, a visitor to Johnstown can go on a six-hour guided tour that, besides the Franklin works, includes a coal mine and a blue-collar neighborhood. "Imagine a thousand guys coming through here on a morning," Zilch begins, gesturing inside the gate. He turns slowly, pointing to the skeletal remnants of the furnace's 300-foot-high superstructure. "Imagine the flash and roar coming out of that furnace when a heat of steel got poured."
Zilch falls silent, letting the forlorn chipping noise of a demolition crew wash over his group. "Hear that?" he asks. "That's the sound of the stripping crane getting torn down. A steelworker listens to a stripping crane get torn down, it tells him one thing: instead of 4,000 people here making steel, you got maybe 50 making scrap.
"July 31, 1992, was the last day hot metal ran here at Franklin. And a month later, I worked my last day for Bethlehem. Forty years. That last day I made it a special point to leave through this gate. I wanted to punch out," he concludes, looking up from the mud and squarely into the eyes of his tourists, "at the same place I punched in."
Not so long ago, families driving across this obscure reach of the Allegheny Mountains between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh would no more have considered a tour through this smoke-filled industrial valley than they would have considered rambling through their local landfill. Now, sleek signs implore them to follow a 500-mile "Path of Progress" that features Rust Belt attractions like the Franklin mill and Rust Belt survivors like Zilch.
In Johnstown, tour buses idle outside the moldering steel mills, and two neighboring communities are using local sites to tell the story of the bituminous coal-mining industry. Johnstown is heading into a future in which the economy will be fed by an ambitious, seemingly quixotic experiment called heritage tourism.
Heritage tourism retails the often unhappy narratives of unlucky places, and is clearly a growth industry -- heritage areas are currently taking shape in 80 sites around the country. A project in rural Iowa tells of the rise and fall of the family farm; a project in West Virginia traces the waxing and waning of the coal industry, and another in Butte, Mont., does the same for that city's mammoth open-pit copper mine. Conceived to honor distinctive folkways and help revive dying economies, heritage tourism is betting that the factories where cannons were forged can be as compelling as the battlefields where they were fired, that the stories of ordinary working people can be as absorbing as those of the exalted and wealthy.
In the 1970's and 80's, when the steel industry started to die across America, Johnstown began dying with it. Between 1980 and 1990, the city lost 20 percent of its population of 30,000; in 1983 and 1984, unemployment reached 24 percent. As during the Great Johnstown Flood of 1889, infamy had once again struck the Conemaugh River Valley: film makers and journalists seeking backdrops for their Rust Belt stories regularly chose Johnstown's hulking mills.
"Some people prefer to avert their eyes and have their history go away," concedes Richard Burkert, executive director of the Johnstown Area Heritage Association. "And it does go away: look at Pittsburgh, where the huge steel mills have been leveled for office parks. Well, it's critical that those mills -- the ethic and spirit residing in them -- be remembered someplace."
Since the summer day in 1977 when Bethlehem Steel cut 3,800 local jobs, Johnstown, hamstrung by its relative isolation and lack of diversification, has seemed fated to become that very place. Less certain and more divisive, however, have been the style and tone of the remembrance. Some residents want to follow the elegiac, heavily labor-oriented line propounded by Jim Abrams, founder and director of the Open-Hearth Education Project, the organization that trained Zilch. Others insist that Johnstown's history be presented more conventionally and optimistically.
A larger, more troubling question faces heritage tourism in general and the Johnstown experiment in particular: given the convenient, reassuring historical myths offered up by Williamsburg and Valley Forge, by Gettysburg and Independence Hall, how many Americans are likely to invest their time and dollars in such a ravaged valley, listening to the hard stories -- whether pro-labor or pro-management -- of people like Charlie Zilch?
FOR NEARLY A DECADE, THE SOUTHWESTERN PENNSYLVANIA HERITAGE Preservation Commission has been struggling with that question. Since 1988, this agency, administered through the Department of the Interior, has spent some $30 million in Federal money and at least that much in state, local and private funds. (Johnstown itself has been designated by the state as a "fiscally distressed community"; area businesses have contributed $1.5 million in the last eight years.) The agency has compiled hundreds of pages of marketing studies and oral histories, produced scores of handsome publications and exhaustively surveyed, among other things, coal tipples, slag heaps and railroad yards for their historical significance and potential for attracting tourists. They created the Path of Progress, which, incorporating such longstanding institutions as the pair of popular Johnstown flood museums, attracted 580,000 visitors in 1994, contributing "a direct total economic impact" of $40 million to the region. Johnstown alone entertains about 225,000 heritage visitors annually. (In 1957, at the height of Johnstown's industrial boom, the area supported more than 40,000 full-time jobs in steel making and coal mining; today, those same industries employ about 4,000.)
But the transformation once promised Johnstown has yet to materialize. In 1990, when annual Federal financing for the project crested at $16 million, great plans were afoot to convert Bethlehem Steel's historic rolling mill into a major national park. Radiating from the downtown hub would be bike paths, ethnic restaurants, brew pubs and restored company houses. In the early 90's, however, in light of a drastically altered political atmosphere and the prohibitive cost of the project, the national park dream was deferred; and the aggressive, labor-oriented stance of the project was significantly moderated, leaving the project stripped of its clear, if controversial, marketing niche.
Consequently, the reconstituted Johnstown emerges as neither a blue-collar Valhalla nor a Sturbridge Village-style theme park. In the same week last June that the Open-Hearth Project graduated its first class of guides, the Allegheny Traveler, a 30-foot-high inflatable mascot, made his bumptious debut at Point Stadium in downtown Johnstown -- before 1,000 empty seats and a knot of bemused reporters.
TO TEACH TOURISTS ABOUT COAL MINING, OPEN-HEARTH USES a small, family-owned operation called the Seldom Seen Mine. Most mining companies, because of insurance matters and other considerations, generally don't allow tours. Indeed, seams of high-grade coal still abound inside these hogback hills; only within the last few years, as the price of coal has dropped to $30 a ton, have they grown unprofitable to mine. When the price comes back up to $45 -- around 2015, by most projections -- the miners will be called back underground.
On the afternoon of my tour, the rain is still drumming and a spark plug has gone out in the locomotive that will pull our train a half mile underneath the mountain. The delay gives Danny Pfeilstucker, our guide, more time to recall his belated, harrowing trade.
One of a coal miner's 10 children, Pfeilstucker was born 47 years ago in Portage, a coal town of 3,000 near Johnstown. His father suffered from black lung disease and died of a heart attack at 59. In 1972, after two tours of duty in Vietnam, Danny started following his father's trade, and would not be all that surprised if he, too, ends up with black lung disease. "Seventeen years underground, chances are I've got it, too," says Pfeilstucker, a big, voluble man with a sandy mustache. "Most all the miners my age or older have got it.
"I have one old buddy, he remembers everything that happened to him in the mines," Pfeilstucker continues, "and he needs to talk to somebody about it." While Open-Hearth might give former workers like Pfeilstucker's friend a welcome forum, none of them expect to make a fraction of the wages they earned in the mines or in the mills. Most of the participants in Open-Hearth -- especially the miners, who failed to negotiate solid retirement benefits -- have to make do with various part-time jobs.
Another few minutes go by, and our train still sits motionless, waiting for the spark plug. Suddenly Pfeilstucker bolts from his car and begins striding up and down the platform. "Understand, if this is a real shift, right now you'd be getting your butt chewed!" he shouts. "Some boss'd be moving along here screaming: 'Get this car moving! You're getting paid portal-to-portal, and if this train's down, then the company's not making any money!' "
Our group duly ruffled and edified, Pfeilstucker returns to his seat. "I knew something felt wrong around here," he chuckles. "It was way too quiet." He stares out at the rain and adds, "Of course, a real boss, his language would've been a shade more colorful."
Finally, the engine coughs to life, and with a screech of old steel our tour lurches toward the coal face waiting in the black heart of the green Allegheny Mountains. Huddled in the forward cars of the train, the tourists peer into the darkness with equal parts apprehension and eagerness. At the rear, Pfeilstucker punches his hard hat down around his ears, ready to go to work.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THEN: The whoosh of molten steel: Metal being poured into molds at a Bethlehem Steel plant in Johnstown, circa 1930. All the machinery was larger than life. (COURTESY OF PANNA FLOWER/CUSTER COLLECTION) (pg. 46); NOW: Charlie Zilch, left, ex-steelworker-cum-tour guide who gave 40 years to Bethlehem Steel. Tourists, above, inspect a Johnstown mill still in operation. (JEFF MERMELSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHWESTERN PENNSYLVANIA HERITAGE PRESERVATION COMMISSION BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHWESTERN PENNSYLVANIA HERITAGE PRESERVATION COMMISSION

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHNSTOWN (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; STEEL AND IRON; NYTRAVEL; COAL; MINES AND MINING; LABOR; FEDERAL AID (US); FINANCES FACTORY WORKERS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); MINE WORKERS (77%); COAL INDUSTRY (75%); MINES & MINING (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); TOURISM (70%); HISTORIC SITES (60%); MOUNTAINS (60%); LANDFILLS (50%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, JOHN CHARLIE ZILCH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



701 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 23; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: WORD & IMAGE;
More on TV Mayhem

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
JUST MENTIONING THE MURDER AND MAYHEM that passes for local news on television strikes an anguished nerve. My complaint last month about the nightly doses of virulent violence -- and the absence of instructive information -- provoked a flood of mail from readers who share the despair. The trouble is, they have no remedy except to turn off the television during the 10 or 11 o'clock brutalities, or to switch to "Seinfeld" reruns.
Public television drew some comparative praise, but as Chris Lydon, a Boston broadcaster, pointed out, it, too, has largely given up on useful coverage of local affairs. Time Warner's Channel 1 in New York attracted some favorable mentions, but its reporting also lacks depth. 
 Al Tompkins, an obviously concerned news director at WSMV-TV in Nashville, called to explain that economic calculations discourage enterprise in the coverage of local news. It takes a television crew an hour or two to visit the scene of a murder or a fire; it may take days, even weeks, to report on the causes of crime or the poor state of housing.
Ed Planer of Glencoe, Ill., a former network-news executive, elaborated in the same vein: "Murders, fires, accidents -- the grist of today's local television news mill -- are relatively simple stories to cover. . . . It's not that local newsrooms have a built-in predilection for violence. It's just that it's there -- easy to get -- and it can be enhanced by production techniques. How many times have you seen on the 11 P.M. news on a New York City channel a reporter standing in front of a precinct house, reporting 'live' on a murder that might have happened 15 hours earlier? It happens on Chicago television practically every night. . . .
"The marketplace no longer requires a reporter to dig into bond-issue contracts, police brutality, bank redlining, etc. Why have a reporter hang around City Hall when he or she can sit in your tape room in Des Moines or wherever, monitor an incoming feed on, say, Michael Jackson leaving a New York City hospital and then report 'live from the newsroom' on the story. . . . It can only be changed from the inside, not the outside."
The mail confirmed that the problem is pervasive.
"I've been occasionally timing the local news during my travels," Ross Koppel of Wyncote, Pa., wrote. "I saw little about the stuff of late 20th-century life -- science, knowledge, engineering or economic analysis. Some news time was devoted to education, but that was inevitably about teachers' strikes or drugs in the schools."
And from Traverse City, Mich., David Hacker reported: "Up here in the north woods where we don't have the lovely array of murders, rapes, beatings, cop killings and cop killers . . . [we] have to be satisfied with grisly auto and truck accidents, schoolyard fist fights, women in shelters with black eyes, stolen kiddy bicycles and lumberyard fires as nightly news items. It is worse than awful and less than meaningless."
Several letter writers agreed with my heated observation that the local news cynically arouses emotions to make viewers more receptive to commercials. Some detect even more deplorable effects.
Joseph J. DiPalermo of Scarsdale, N.Y., wrote: "It is absolutely unconscionable for local reporters to take their microphones, cameras and photogenic sympathy into the apartments or houses of people (usually in the ghetto) who have just suffered a tragedy, and expose their private, often uncontrolled grief to viewers conditioned to expect that voyeuristic 'entertainment.' What an unrelenting assault on common decency, intellect and the wellspring of genuine feelings. And for what? To sell products."
Confirming an effect discovered long ago by Life magazine, several readers demonstrated that the fears aroused by excessive crime news on television persist no matter what the actual crime rate in viewers' environs.
"The consequences of showing irrelevant violence as news has affected us all, including my family and neighbors," Dr. Paul DeLeeuw from Key Biscayne, Fla., wrote. "Parents will not let kids ride their bicycles in residential neighborhoods here in Miami. Many refuse even to let them board school buses! Halloween is dead. People are living in irrational fear of remote dangers, and we all suffer."
Nonetheless, many readers blame the audience as much as the news providers. "It's my experience that violence (or overstimulation, let's call it) is inherent and inescapable in a free-market society," Warren Padula from Bridgehampton, L.I., wrote. "Any page of The New York Times is a mirror of how we are. . . . How would the proverbial Martian reconcile a story on Bosnia paired with an underwear advertisement? The anxiety created by the news is exorcised by the exercise of voting for the underwear. News creates panic; consumption soothes and satisfies."
Paul Martin, a former promotion director at Channel 6 in Philadelphia, recalled in an article he wrote for his neighborhood weekly, The Chestnut Hill Local, how he thought the disease got started. In the late 1960's, the channel's owner, Triangle Stations, hired Frank Magid Associates of Iowa to learn what viewers wanted. The answer: "They didn't want to merely hear the news, they wanted to see it happening. That's how 'Action News' was born."
Jordan I. Lane of Queens looked no further than in The Times' Book Review for his explanation. "What a sad and discouraging commentary on the character, interests and morality of so many American people," he lamented, that Howard Stern's "Miss America" has been No. 1 on the best-seller list.
Hardly any readers found much merit in my proposal that politicians and other prominent citizens should try shaming the owners of television stations and networks into providing higher-quality news. Perhaps they consider it beyond redemption. I think that too few of the owners look up from the bottom line to actually watch what is offered the community in their names. They should be challenged to defend their newscasts and prove their respect for the community.
Crude boycotts would be the only other remedy. Although there is no organized campaign to turn viewers away from the local news, a large number of readers reported doing that on their own. "I don't miss it," Sharon Rowe of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., wrote. "And I know a lot of families who don't watch it either." However, boycotters, although less disturbed, remain badly informed.
Dr. Jerome Z. Litt of Pepper Pike, Ohio, said that whatever the source of the urge to witness mayhem, his longstanding proposal has been to satisfy the urge with what he would call a "Disaster Channel." It could offer round-the-clock reports on floods, fires and earthquakes, jailbreaks and mass murders, horrible weather, sports injuries and stadium riots -- all updated as new disasters materialize. And for prime time, he would transmit "nostalgic docudramas" that re-enact the eruption of Mount Vesuvius, the Great Fires of London, Chicago and San Francisco, the sinking of the Titanic and, of course, the Challenger explosion.
Alas, Dr. Litt thought he was kidding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER SPORTS (57%); TIME WARNER BOOKMARK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; VIOLENCE; TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); ENGINEERING (69%); STRIKES (61%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX MICHAEL JACKSON (52%); MICHAEL JACKSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



702 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 30; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3178 words

HEADLINE: What's in a Mohawk?

BYLINE: By RJ Smith; RJ Smith is a contributing editor of Details. This is his first article for the Times Magazine.

 BODY:
EVEN FOR A BREAK-ALL-THE-RULES PUNK ROCK BAND, some rules still apply. It's 10 minutes to stage, and the members of Rancid are sitting in their tour bus, parked behind the the Horticulture Building at the Utah State Fair Park in Salt Lake City.
"Hey, Lars, wanna put up my 'hawk?" the band's 30-year-old lead singer and guitarist, Tim Armstrong, asks the 24-year-old guitarist, Lars Frederiksen. 
 "You ever seen a mohawk being put up before?" Armstrong asks. "First, you gotta put on a punk rock record."
"It could be a G.B.H. record, or it could be the Sex Pistols," chimes in Frederiksen. "Tonight it's Green Day, because they are our friends and we love them." He sounds like the Frugal Gourmet patiently explaining the value of preheating the oven.
Armstrong's color of choice is Midnight Blue, the brand Manic Panic. He shaves the sides of his head every other day so they shine. Frederiksen deftly divides the crest of hair into six spikes, twisting each to a point and dousing it with Aqua Net Ultimate Hold. Then he bakes the whole thing with a hair dryer.
"Ultimate Hold, the poor man's quick fix," boasts Frederiksen.
"But the best is Knox gelatin," says Armstrong sub rosa. "That's the punk rocker's secret."
Frederiksen stands back and admires his handiwork -- a crown that could pop balloons. Finished, the artist asks for the time. Ten minutes and four Green Day songs have passed, and four punk action figures go to battle: Frederiksen and Armstrong wear bondage pants and combat boots; the bassist, Matt Freeman, 29, is in all black, and the drummer, Brett Reed, 23, looks like a tattooed Ed Norton.
Some bands achieve hugeness; others stumble off the bus only to find it thrust upon them. The latter seems to be the case with Rancid. They started four and a half years ago, Bay Area homeboys with absolutely no ambition but to hang together as friends and punk rock fans. They made two records for the Los Angeles-based independent label Epitaph. They toured in one ratty Econoline van or another. They became local heroes.
Around the same time, Seattle grunge, a new strain of hard rock with a sound reminiscent of late-70's punk, was sweeping the country with a little help from MTV and the summer Lollapalooza tours. Record company executives called the music alternative, but with groups like Pearl Jam, Nirvana and Soundgarden selling millions of records, the question was, alternative to what?
Punk became the answer, or rather the answer again, the next logical step for kids looking for a little more rebellion in their music. Back in 1977, British punk was a working-class music that with a few chords and a lot of volume tried to disassemble the pop tune. It chewed up melodies, scoffed at arrangements. Punk wanted to smash things up -- the idea of a hit record, of the pop star, of the record business.
Back then, punk's anger had the ability to shock even its own fans. But punk in the age of Rancid, Green Day, the Offspring and the flood of bands now signed to major labels is as tuneful as anything on the radio. It's still hopping mad, and radiates the hostility that made grunge a household word. But this punk is different from grunge too. Grunge is noisier, darker, less catchy and far less political than the music that Rancid and Green Day are making. Its attitude is me-against-the-world, not punk's us-versus-them. Today's punkers have returned class identity to pop radio; they talk about the disenfranchised nobility of "the kids" the way Woody Guthrie once talked about the farmer.
Today's punk is having one of the same problems as grunge -- the curse of its own popularity. Rancid's original fans loved the music because it shot away from the mainstream, but the new punk has been devouring the mainstream. By the end of last year Green Day's "Dookie" had sold an estimated eight million and the Offspring's "Smash" five million. Madonna started coming to Rancid shows, and sent a naked photograph of herself, pleading with the band to sign with her label instead of Epic, which offered a deal worth $1.5 million. At the peak of the bidding war, Rancid turned them both down. The band re-signed with Epitaph, which released Rancid's new " . . . And Out Come the Wolves" in August. Even though the musicians stayed at the label where they were comfortable, the pressure continued to grow.
"Personally, I try not to think of it too much," says Matt Freeman. He smacks a fresh pack of Winstons so hard that when he pulls one out, the cigarette is bent like a nail. "It's like being in the eye of the tornado, everything's gradual. Think about it: you never see your friend get fat. But maybe if you go away for a few months and then come back. . . . "
The band has been away, touring Europe while the new record was released. Now Rancid is playing a sold-out show in Salt Lake City, its bus parked beside a marker commemorating where the Donner Party crossed the Jordan River. Rancid has found its own crossroads, the X where punk rock and the mass audience meet.
When the lights go down in the Horticulture Building, fans squeeze in like ears of corn -- fans who have driven from Wyoming, Idaho and all parts of Utah. Rancid's music recreates the world of late-70's punk the way a Southern preservation society might recreate a Civil War battle -- not literally, but with disparate pieces blurred together by memory and longing. The California-born Armstrong sings with a British accent, the guitars ring of anthems long silenced and the rhythms bubble with souped-up ska, the reggae beat the original punks loved.
The sound in Salt Lake City is mangled by the room's barnlike acoustics, but the band doesn't care. When Rancid roars into "Salvation," about Armstrong's stay in a Salvation Army shelter and his job picking up donated appliances door to door, the crowd jumps. It's the video of this song that made the band MTV sensations. The packed concrete floor of the Horticulture Building breaks up into honeycomb cells of thrashing fans spinning in circles, rocketing off one another.
Afterward I ask Sarah Kessenich, 17, what she thought of the show. She pulls my hand to a golf-ball-size knot on the back of her head, beneath her blue hair. "I wanted to jump up and kiss Tim -- but when I tried to, a bouncer dropped me on my head," she says. She has pats of blood on her white T-shirt and says she passed out twice tonight. She looks radiant. "It was a total punk-rock show. One of the best I've ever seen." Kessenich and four friends come from Evanston, Wyo., 90 miles away. In Evanston, they get beat up by the dozen or so local jocks -- or sportos, as they call them.
Rancid gave these kids a feeling of acceptance for who they are, but now they face new misery: the same people who torment them for dressing like punks are turning into Rancid fans by the thousands. Tonight punks have even been shoved aside by snowboarders and sportos racing to the heart of the mosh pit.
At show's end, there's a convergence far stranger than the alchemy of jock and punk. A few buildings away in State Fair Park, a cowboy dance is winding down. And so two groups become one, Stetsons and studs, cowboys and mohawked punks, all searching for their cars under the lights as the mainstream reshapes itself.
"I COULDN'T BE HAPPIER," SAYS BRETT GUREWITZ, between phone calls in his Los Angeles office. He unwraps a grape sucker -- the perfect joke on the mogul's cigar -- and ostentatiously savors it before describing the demographic of the Rancid audience. Gurewitz, a former guitarist with the punk band Bad Religion, is the sole owner of the Epitaph label, which sold millions of punk records last year. Using custom software and market research, he's able to peg his target base.
"Today's Rancid fans are high-school- and college-age kids, probably mostly male, who are tired of listening to their big brother's music. Mostly suburban. Let's say he's an 18-year-old kid, he's got a skateboard and a bike, he's got a boom box. Besides Rancid he also probably likes to listen to the Wu-Tang Clan, probably also likes to listen to Pennywise, probably also likes to listen to Coolio. He feels somewhat disenfranchised by the pace and change in today's culture. He hates being called 'Generation X.' He's a typical young rock-and-roller."
On Sunset Boulevard, a long line of typical young rock-and-rollers is snaking past guards, past a lunch truck and far beyond the Deco-era dance hall Rancid will play tonight. I'm hanging out with a group of 10 fans who drove down from Victorville, a California desert town 85 miles outside of Los Angeles, as they wait for their body search on the way into the club. "This is gonna be my fourth show," boasts Scotty Riddle. He points to the empty space on his right arm where he plans to get a Rancid tattoo.
What do they do for fun in Victorville? "Come down here," four of them say at once. That, they add, and skate.
One day while skateboarding the streets of Victorville, David Armijo stopped into a Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant for a bite. He walked right up to the counter and then he spotted the taped-up sign: WE DON'T SERVE SKATERS. He felt mad at the restaurant, he said, but maybe he also felt strangely good.
"They think you're an outsider, and they kick you out of places," he sighs.
"How can they do that?," asks Joe Trozera. "That's so illegal."
"We said to the guy at the counter, 'You can't outcast someone in a group,' says Armijo. "And he just said, 'Let's see you try and do something about it.' Then they kicked us out!"
For some of Rancid's biggest fans, it's this mark of the outcast that defines their sense of who they are. Greg Dalton lives in the San Gabriel Valley, east of Los Angeles. "I skate, I party, I listen to music, that's about it," says the 17-year-old. He loved Rancid's first two albums, and he loves the scorn his friends once heaped on him for it. "That became the whole point for me. I liked it when people told me that. I wanted to be part of it.
"Skateboarding's like that too. The reason skating and punk get wrapped up together is they've both always been hated by everybody. Skaters are hated by businesses and the police -- you screw up the streets. Everybody used to bag on me for skating, and now they're all dressing up like skaters. The whole scene's sold out," he says sadly.
Jon Steward recently shaved off his mohawk, but his is not the cue ball look of a skinhead tough. His gentle, asymmetrical face meets you with friendliness. It's extremely white, suggesting light reflected off the moon.
"My family, they kicked me out when I got a mohawk," he says. "I'm a college dropout. I got kicked out because of the things I did, hanging out with the wrong crowd. But now, it's cool."
"People put you down, but the punk crowd's not like that. It's cool. People accept you in punk, and they don't care about anyone else." Steward came to the Hollywood show by himself, and waits in line alone.
"I hang out with myself. If people can't accept me for who I am, they can just [expletive] off. I'm not gonna change for no one else." He stands very close as we talk, looking right into my eyes. He doesn't blink.
"When you go to shows, you meet so many friends. I don't hang out with them after the show, but, like, during the show you become like best friends with them. That's what it's about."
His father left the family when Jon was 4; he says he doesn't know what his mother does for a living. "Now I'm living in my car, in Pasadena or, just, wherever. I can't get a job. No one hires you with mohawks. People stare, they judge you on how you look. If I get a job, I'll work hard."
Today's punks are part of the first generation to grow up knowing they had no birthright to an expanding economy. They were marinated in gloom -- the media maxim about the pie growing smaller might as well have been flashed hourly on MTV. To teen-agers, it was an unavoidable prescription of failure.
The skaters driven out of Kentucky Fried Chicken, the mohawk kicked out of the house -- in ways big and small, Rancid speaks to people who feel persecuted by the adult world. That's a sentiment older than Frankie Avalon. But Frankie saw the future as an endless summer; to Rancid the future promises diminishing returns.
The band telegraphs that it cares about its fans, that there is little distance between them. In this way modern punk shares a lot more with Bruce Springsteen or John Mellencamp than with the Sex Pistols. It celebrates covert companionship, friendships built as bulwarks against public institutions. There's a loyalty to one's set almost as thick as that among street gangs. And like a gangbanger, a fan's loyalty is ultimately to an abstraction, an irreducible essence that guides one through the night.
LIFE BEGINS AT THE 7-ELEVEN. CERTAINLY there's no better vantage from which to chart Rancid's career than the parking lot of the Solano Avenue 7-Eleven in Albany, Calif. There, in a town just north of Berkeley, Armstrong and Freeman spent the late 80's hanging out while Armstrong's brother Jeff worked the counter. And there, this afternoon, Matt Freeman pulls in to buy an armful of Diet Cokes. He's driving Brett Reed's 1970 Impala, ankle-deep with fast food wrappers, empty soda cans and unpaid parking tickets. He points out the big new houses of town. These days his dad, a retired cop who raised Matt here, couldn't afford to live in Albany.
When we get to the house he grew up in, Freeman points to where he first saw a little kid riding his bike down the street. That was Armstrong.
Their bond is the root of Rancid. They were in Little League at the same time, went to high school together and then formed the ska band Operation Ivy. After the 1989 breakup of Operation Ivy, stars of a Berkeley punk scene that included Green Day, Freeman watched Armstrong, whose father was an alcoholic, fall apart. He'd drink 20 and more beers in a day, and then take Valium. Waking up on the street, Armstrong would stagger away to another round. He worked in pizza joints, sold tie-dye to the hippies on Telegraph Avenue and spent every cent on alcohol. Friends were abandoning him in droves.
Three times Armstrong's drinking and drugging landed him in the hospital. When nobody else would put up with him anymore, Freeman and Jeff Armstrong drove him to detox centers, and ultimately to a Salvation Army shelter. After two weeks there, and after a black resident mistook him for a right-wing skinhead and threatened to kill him, Armstrong swore off alcohol forever.
"It was never a question of, 'Let's get sober so we can get the band together again.' I threw that out the window after a while. I was working, doing my own life," says Freeman. "It was a question of taking care of my friend. When we got Rancid together, it was just something for him to do. He said, 'I need something in my life, I need something to shoot for.' It just rolled from there.
"I'm not an expert on alcoholics, and I don't feel comfortable telling people what to do. I was just sticking by him. I loved the guy, and I didn't want to see him die. He was the only best friend I ever had." Freeman stops for a minute. He has to, because suddenly he's crying.
Armstrong hasn't had a drink since Aug. 1, 1991. As if to tempt fate, he lives, with Reed, two floors above a liquor store in a scary part of Berkeley. They started Rancid with the most modest goals. They returned to Gilman Street, the cooperatively run club that was the site of Operation Ivy's finest moments; they rehearsed there in exchange for cleaning the toilets.
"It was a nightmare," Armstrong says excitedly. "But sometimes I think alcohol saved my [expletive]. I don't regret any one drink I ever had, I swear I don't, I had to go through it. What else can a 13-year-old kid do? Alcoholic family, total chaos all the time."
Frederiksen's father bailed out when Lars was 3, and his mom worked as a keypunch operator during the week and was an Avon Lady on weekends to support Lars and his brother. He grew up near San Jose, drinking with the street punks, getting arrested more than once. He, too, cleaned up.
Sitting in an empty room on the Los Angeles set for the band's latest video, Frederiksen could be the ultimate product of punk evolution. He's wearing shoes known in Britain as creepers, the thin suspenders he calls "skinhead braces," black slacks rolled neatly above the ankle and several nose rings.
He's perched in a cavernous bedroom of a 1905 mansion located on a South-Central block. It has decayed beautifully, this house that's boarded up except when rented for videos and horror-movie shoots. All around Frederiksen the plaster is peeling, there are holes knocked in the walls, broken light fixtures. This could be a squatter's castle, and he could be its punk rock philosopher king, bouncing on the balls of his feet.
"I wouldn't say I had a hard life, but I remember eating Raisin Bran for dinner a bunch of times," he says. "All of us are from single-parent homes. We watched either our mother or father go out and kick [expletive] for a living. I think that's where we get this work ethic.
"We're all like a pack of badgers," he says. "If you attack one of us, we'll regroup and we'll attack you. We didn't grow up in nice neighborhoods, we didn't go to college. We've got tattoos on our necks."
He'd go on, but he's been called to the set, where a stylist is applying makeup for the shoot.
The band mime their song "Ruby Soho" dozens of times for the camera while the album version blasts from speakers. Between takes Epitaph's Brett Gurewitz works the room like a boxing trainer, keeping the energy up. He pats the director on the arm, gives the thumbs-up to a cameraman, mouths "looks great"to Armstrong. When there's a longer break, he settles on the front porch, pulls an I.B.M. Thinkpad from a green briefcase and makes notes to himself.
One by one, band members drift out. They sit together and watch the cars pass their hillside manor surrounded by a cyclone fence. What ensues is a classic California punk rock discourse: tattoos and hot rods, hot rods and tattoos. Everybody argues about who's got the most botched inking. Then somebody mentions a road rally that a group of punkers are putting on, Los Angeles to Florida. Gurewitz suddenly stands up, palms out.
"O.K., here's what you do," he begins. It's seminar time. "You want to win this thing, you go to the auto parts store. You buy every kind of radar-detector there is. You line them up around the inside of your car. From every angle, you're covered. Then -- you just floor it."
Everybody hoots. Down on the street, a little kid rides by on a bicycle.
Tomorrow Rancid flies to Seattle and begins a U.S. tour. Tomorrow the band will take Gurewitz's advice and floor it. But right this moment, in this mansion on the hill, this broken home, right now the band members have set up house. They're shooting the breeze, watching the sun set. People say you don't get to pick your family. But sometimes, maybe you do.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Punk action figures: Reed, Freeman, Frederiksen and Armstrong. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN KUEHN/MATRIX, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 30); RANCID SERVES SKATERS like Joe Trozera and David Armijo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF JACOBSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RANCID (MUSIC GROUP) BAY AREA INSURANCE SERVICES (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: RANCID (MUSIC GROUP)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); UTAH, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); 

PERSON: SMITH, RJ LARS FREDERIKSEN (87%); TIM ARMSTRONG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



703 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2039 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Quick: Name a New Musical Star

BYLINE: By ETHAN MORDDEN; Ethan Mordden is the author of "Broadway Babies: The People Who Made the American Musical" and "Rodgers and Hammerstein."

 BODY:
YOU'RE GOING OUT THERE A youngster," Warner Baxter warns the young Ruby Keeler at the climax of the 1933 film "Forty-Second Street," "but you've got to come back a star!" Baxter's urgent tone reflects a terror of unemployment at the height of the Depression. "Two hundred people!," he emphasizes. "Two hundred jobs!" Nevertheless, Keeler's split-second glance of elation as she cases the auditorium after stepping on stage tells us her agenda is less social welfare than that Great American Privilege, fame.
This is reasonable; this is theater. Throughout its golden age of Jerome Kern, Rodgers and Hart, the Gershwins and Cole Porter, the Broadway musical specialized in the induction of fresh talent. Just as Keeler replaces an injured (but also aging, therefore, as Hollywood sees it, powerless) Bebe Daniels in "Forty-Second Street," so there was a constant absorption and elevation of newcomers. 
 That's all finished now. The musical has lost the ability to sustain the integration of new star talent. When a uniquely charismatic performer does appear, there is no follow-up role to proclaim his or her arrival -- no "Funny Girl," say, to celebrate the discovery of a Barbra Streisand in "I Can Get It for You Wholesale," a show she stole so thoroughly that she made one of the greatest show-biz careers not only possible but absolutely necessary (even if it took her away from the theater for life).
This is why theatergoers have been so enthusiastic about the appearance, in a single season, of three of the most popular musical-comedy stars of the post-World War II era: Carol Channing, Julie Andrews and Carol Burnett (though Ms. Burnett, in a comedy, isn't singing). This trio recalls a time in Broadway's history when going out there a youngster and coming back a star meant something to the great majority of Americans. Today, the culture looks elsewhere for its show-biz stars -- to the movies, as always, but also to television, pop music, even politics and crime. Theater, in 1990's America, is a backwater.
But when the young Carol Channing made her debut in the revue "Lend an Ear" in 1948, revealing a hit-and-run personality and a voice that covers every note between moan and squeak, it was virtually a cultural imperative that she be feted -- or tested, perhaps? -- in another show, this time in a star part. As Ms. Channing had won particular notice in a spoof of 20's musicals in "Lend an Ear," her next engagement the following year was a 20's spinoff, "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes," in which she played that decade's most essential gold digger, the cunning yet loopy Lorelei Lee.
Oddly, Julie Andrews also arrived in a burlesque of the 20's, the English musical "The Boy Friend," in 1954. But where Ms. Channing was daffy, Ms. Andrews was cool, elegant, porcelain with a human face. After a little coaching in cockney style, she was not only a natural but inevitable as Eliza Doolittle in "My Fair Lady," a mating of actor and character as symmetrical as Clark Gable playing Rhett Butler.
Carol Burnett too made her Broadway debut in a period burlesque, the "Princess and the Pea" spoof, "Once Upon a Mattress," in 1959. As Winifred the Woebegone, the Princess herself, Ms. Burnett stood out in a company of nine principals for a broadness of gesture that is oddly down to earth in its effect. Like a 'edieval court jester, she expresses what we're all feeling -- an eagerness to please, an impatience with fools and a gratitude for kindness. She just does it the way General Patton made war. Once again, the musical's gods of tradition and destiny demanded that she be given a main chance. After five years as television's favorite singing comic, she too graced Broadway in a star part, the usherette-turned-movie-idol in "Fade Out -- Fade In."
This ceaseless cultivation of innovative talent gave the musical a vital sense of continuity, of being able to command its own history. However, not long after the accession of Ms. Channing, Ms. Andrews and Ms. Burnett, the system broke down. When was the last truly important star discovered and nurtured on Broadway? Ms. Streisand? That was 30 years ago.
What happened? Ensemble shows, for one thing -- the dark, sophisticated "concept" musicals such as "Company," "Grand Hotel," "The Secret Garden." These are operettas for grown-ups, problem plays too finely textured to endure a star turn. Moreover, the rise of pop opera has created gigantic constructions that overwhelm performer charisma with roller dome races and helicopter takeoffs, and whose popularity extends so far beyond the theatergoing community that they become tourist attractions, like the hansom cabs in Central Park or the Hard Rock Cafe. Do tourists really care who's playing Jean Valjean this week?
There is as well the current emphasis on revivals -- literally, as if trying to pump a heartbeat into a moribund form by resuscit'ting the classics. Within the last generation, Broadway has seen major reappearances of "Oklahoma!," "Brigadoon," "West Side Story," "Guys and Dolls," "Carousel" and now "Show Boat," none of which demands headliners.
True, we have also had "Gypsy," perhaps the greatest of all star vehicles, from Ethel Merman through Angela Lansbury to Tyne Daly. But "Gypsy" is one of the exceptions that proves the rule, as is "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum," expected in March with Nathan Lane, and "The King and I," originally written around Gertrude Lawrence but later staged in honor of Yul Brynner. Perhaps this "He said/She said" aspect of the latter piece will be settled when Donna Murphy and Lou Diamond Phillips square off as Anna and the King (also in March), as neither is yet a star in the Broadway sense of not just charming: fascinating. Not just talented: inventive. Not just outstanding: unique. Call it a wild magic.
Without star roles to accommodate our newly discovered stars, where are they to work? How is the musical to continue without this essential nourishment? When Judy Kaye took over for Madeline Kahn in the more-or-less Carole Lombard role in "On the Twentieth Century," there were unanimous cheers for her deliciously thorny comic style and unbearably virtuous soprano. An age ago, producers would have been lining up around the block to feature the actress in her own show; it never happened. Mostly, Ms. Kaye does regional productions of "Annie Get Your Gun" and "The Merry Widow" or concert presentations of history-book titles like "Leave It to Jane" or "Oh, Lady! Lady!," as if she were her own grandmother.
More recently, Faith Prince won notice in a supporting part in "Nick and Nora," then blew the town away as a tumultuously appealing Miss Adelaide in "Guys and Dolls." But with no follow-up vehicle, she went into a dismal play ("What's Wrong With This Picture?") and a television sitcom ("High Society").
Is it any wonder that this season the musical has concentrated on durable stars? Ms. Channing's Dolly made her gala return, and Ms. Andrews has reclaimed her old movie role in "Victor/ Victoria." Ms. Burnett has a new piece, "Moon Over Buffalo." Standing ovations are part of the package, like the playbill and souvenir T's, because America has become a clapping nation. Television, always the bellwether, teaches how: watch as audiences on game and talk shows clap not to express approval but to provide punctuation. They clap before commercials and after commercials, when someone enters and when someone leaves, when they are told to and even when they are not. And, in the theater, they clap for Ms. Channing, Ms. Andrews and Ms. Burnett as if they'd never seen a star before.
It's odd. The cheaper fame has become, the more dearly the public values the real thing. On good nights, Ms. Channing (who plays her final New York Dolly this afternoon) would see them rise to their feet four times: on her entrance, after "Before the Parade Passes By," after the title song and at her curtain call. Back in "Forty-Second Street," Ruby Keeler only sweeps the house with her eyes. Ms. Channing stares at us, perhaps to urge us to worship: the goddess is in. All three women are at the top of their form, but that's irrelevant. In Keeler's day, the public clapped because stars were wonderful. Now it claps because stars are famous.
And dying out, at least on Broadway. Will there be no new musicals built for stars, no "Gypsy," no "Funny Girl"? Has performer power been purged by authors, directors, even designers? Paradoxically, one current pop opera has produced a star role, a part that, like Rose in "Gypsy" -- and unlike Evita or the Phantom -- has so far demanded someone special. Norma Desmond, the heroine of "Sunset Boulevard," is pop opera's first true diva part, as witness its catalogue of prima donnas, from Patti LuPole, Betty Buckley and now Elaine Paige in London; Glenn Close in Los Angeles and New York; Diahann Carroll in Toronto; Helen Schneider in Germany; and Ms. Buckley now in New York, to be followed by Ms. Paige in her American qtage debut in August. (It will be interesting to see how the unknown Linda Balgord fares as Norma on the coming national tour, the first time that Andrew Lloyd Webber will run the show without a headliner. The cynical might see Ms. Balgord as an economy move; if audiences accept "Sunset Boulevard" without a star, future productions will be easier -- and cheaper -- to cast.)
In the old days, of course, stars stayed with their shows till they closed; Julie Andrews played Eliza Doolittle for three and a half years, counting the New York and London runs. Performers today are less keen, and the parade of Norma Desmonds gives us an insight into stardom that we miss in Ms. Channing, the lovable dinosaur, or in Ms. Andrews and Ms. Burnett, the heroines who walked out, if only for 30 years. These three women are simply claiming parts that belong to them, Ms. Channing and Ms. Andrews by creator's copyright and Ms. Burnett with her playwright's blessing.
The many Norma Desmonds, however, are competing in a sweepstakes, each laying claim to a role that, unlike Mary Martin's Nellie Forbush, no one yet owns. Once, the musical built itself around stars because the performance defined the show in exactly the way that the Marx Brothers or Joan Crawford defined their movies. Today, the musical is an alchemy of composition and performance in which the former contains the latter, unfortunately at a time when composition is weak.
This is why revivals are so common: to bring back the experience of attending an entertai'ing show. Not an absorbing or enlightening show -- an amusing show. What's amusement without superb comics, singers, dancers? From the writers we ask no more than talent. But from the performers, we want genius. Thus we compare Norma Desmonds: to retrieve the excitement of the unique performance in a genre that has stifled it.
We see, for instance, how Glenn Close reveled brilliantly, shamelessly, in Norma's egomaniacal glamour, how her murder of her departing lover was, to her, logical: stardom gives the troubled ego a support structure, so to offend stardom is to attack one's very identity. To Betty Buckley, such lurid connection between what one plays and what one is does not compute. Fame is beauty plus talent, right? Who added murderous rage to that recipe? It is as if Ms. Buckley were trying to rationalize stardom even as it dissolves before our eyes. So where Ms. Close played crazed, Ms. Buckley does wounded. Ms. Close fumed; Ms. Buckley cajoles. She doesn't want to kill anyone. Ms. Close's Norma was a bat out of hell, while Ms. Buckley's is a wounded bird. The advantage of seeing two pros in the same role is captivating in the way star roles used to be: the play reveals the player as we watch. That was theater: not fame itself so much as personality.
This must be what Warner Baxter means when he exhorts Ruby Keeler just before she comes back a star. It's not about taking something. It's about sharing something. It's about being part of a culture in which gifted people liberate us all by liberating themselves. In giving up that culture, we haven't just lost the wild magic; we have lost a belief that we need any.
It's all over but the retrospectives.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carol Channing as Lorelei Lee in "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" in 1949. (pg. 1); Julie Andrews, far left, in "The Boy Friend" on Broadway in 1954--She was not only a natural but inevitable as Eliza Doolittle in "My Fair Lady" two years later. (Photofest); Carol Burnett, above, with Joe Bova in "Once Upon a Mattress" in 1960; Barbra Streisand, left, in "I Can Get It for You Wholesale" in 1962--Stars aborning. (Friedman-Abeles; Photofest) (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL MUSICAL THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSIC (88%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); FILM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); HISTORY (74%); POP & ROCK (74%); THEATER (58%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, JULIE; CHANNING, CAROL; BURNETT, CAROL; MORDDEN, ETHAN BARBRA JOAN STREISAND (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



704 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 9; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
In Iran, Simple Films Can Speak Volumes

BYLINE: By GERALDINE BROOKS; Geraldine Brooks, who has traveled frequently to Iran since the revolution, is the author of the book "Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women."

 BODY:
WHEN 7-YEAR-OLD RAZIEH, DISobeying her mother, goes to watch some snake charmers, a neighborhood woman chides her for being where girls aren't supposed to be. Razieh, the character at the center of "The White Balloon," replies, "I wanted to see what it was that was not good for me to watch."
Like many current Iranian films, "The White Balloon" creeps to the very edge of what Iran's censors consider good to watch. Just beneath the surface of its deceptively simple story lies a catalogue of Iranian social ills, among them poverty, the tension between the pre- and post-revolutionary generation, racial prejudice and even hints of child abuse. 
 Earlier this month, in protest over a United States Government decision to support a $20 million covert plan against the Iranian Government, Iran tried to withdraw "The White Balloon" as its official entry in the best foreign-language film category for the Academy Awards. But the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is ignoring Iran's demand. "The film was delivered here, it's eligible and we're going to screen it," says Bruce Davis, executive director of the Academy.
The attention may end up helping "The White Balloon," which is up against 40 other entrants in its category. And by leaving the film in competition, the Academy may have kept Iran from gagging a star witness in its own defense. Jafar Panahi's gentle movie, which opened on Wednesday, is itself an eloquent protest against outdated United States stereotyping of Iranians as a nation of wild-eyed Islamic extremists.
The people of "The White Balloon" are neighborhood folks: shopkeepers and housewives concerned with getting the next meal on the table and arriving at the in-laws' place on time. In this, and in "The Jar," an Iranian film that played in New York last year about attempts to repair a cracked water jar at an impoverished desert school, small events become the stage on which larger issues are played out.
Social criticism is thus possible in current Iranian films, despite the censorship they must withstand. Each film must be approved both in screenplay and in final cut. The cast and crew must be vetted for political and religious correctness, and a rating system determines how wide and well publicized the film's release will be.
Even with these restrictions, though, Iranian films remain surprisingly severe on the subjects of Government failures and social malaise. Like the Iranian press, which is allowed to be more critical than is typical in other Middle Eastern countries, movies too are allowed to express a range of opinion. What is not allowed is sex and gratuitous violence. Perhaps it is the absence of these two Hollywood standbys that makes watching Iranian movies like "The White Balloon" so refreshing to Western audiences.
Film makers who have continued to work in Iran since the revolution may be zealous former revolutionaries like Mohsen Makhmalbaf; his 1989 film, "Marriage of the Blessed," indicted the swift marginalization of Islamic idealists in a society still run by a careless rich elite. Or they may simply be artists who have stayed to fight for the cultural soul of their country rather than emigrating in search of a more hospitable creative environment.
Iranian films, especially those by Abbas Kiarostami like "Through the Olive Trees," have been increasingly admired at international film festivals. (Mr. Kiarostami wrote the screenplay for "The White Balloon.") In April the Walter Reade Theater in New York will begin a monthlong retrospective of Mr. Kiarostami's films and showcase new Iranian movies.
Iran's mullahs haven't exactly reveled in such attention. Iran's leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has noted that Western film juries often give prizes to movies that show Iran's poverty and distress. Of course, the same juries give prizes mainly to Western films that similarly show their society's ills. One example with which the Ayatollah Khamenei may be familiar is "Dances With Wolves," the 1990 Oscar winner for best picture, director, screenplay, original score, cinematography, editing and sound recording. It also happens to be one of the few American films that were allowed to be distributed in Teheran. It was approved because its stark portrayal of brutality toward American Indians shows the Great Satan in a bad light.
"The White Balloon," winner of the Camera d'Or for best first feature film at the 1995 Cannes Film Festival, is striking in its almost entirely secular portrayal of Iranian daily life. Apart from an early scene in which a character passes a prayer place, from which voices rise and fall, blessing the prophet Mohammed, the film contains no reference to Islam.
The action takes place on the eve of the Persian feast of Nowruz. After the revolution, the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, trying to elevate the importance of religious holidays, discouraged observance of this pre-Islamic New Year festival. But Shiite Islam's gloomy commemorations of martyrdom couldn't vanquish Nowruz. Despite harassment, Iranians clung to their joyful spring feast, which takes place on the equinox. These days it is observed with as much verve as ever.
For Nowruz, Iranians clean house, bathe carefully and don new clothes -- symbolic rituals in which they slough off any lingering ills from the old year. The table is decorated with a mirror, candle and white foods. Light, fire and white are all representative of God in Zoroastrianism, the ancient Persian religion. In an echo of the ceremonial foods of the Jewish springtime Passover table, Persians assemble seven foods whose names begin with the letter S, like sabzi -- green herbs symbolizing nature's springtime rebirth. There must also be a goldfish bowl, with the goldfish representing the mystery and joy of life.
It is the quest of Razieh (played by Aida Mohammadkhani) for a plump "dancing" goldfish that propels the action of "The White Balloon."
Iranian films often have child protagonists, to avoid the mine field of Islamic restrictions on the portrayal of adult male-female relationships. Actors portraying a married couple, for instance, cannot touch each other on screen unless they are also married in real life because it is a violation of Islam for unrelated men and women to touch. And actresses, like all Iranian women over the age of 9, must cover all the hair and curves of the body, even in scenes depicting private moments in the home where, in real life, every woman sheds her Islamic coverings. In addition, there cannot be any extended close-ups of attractive actresses, because that might be construed as exploiting female beauty.
With the 7-year-old star of "The White Balloon," this isn't an issue. The child, with her gap-toothed smile and tragic eyes, gives an incandescent performance. A critic for The Hollywood Reporter says she "displays a range of emotions that would stymie Meryl Streep."
Razieh nags her mother into letting her buy the goldfish, then accidentally drops the money down a sidewalk grate and persuades various passers-by to help her retrieve it. Alternately kvetching and sobbing, then lit up with hope and delight, Razieh has an intensity that drags the viewer back into the sometimes terrible realm of childhood, where the loss of a few dollars can be a catastrophe.
The film is shot almost entirely in tight frames that mimic a child's-eye view of the world; it is unpanoramic, with the focal point always on what is close and immediate. At times the frames have the intimate feel of Persian miniatures, with Teheran's weathered mud bricks providing the geometrically patterned background and impassive onlookers gazing from the sidelines at the doings of the passionate protagonists.
The film works almost flawlessly at its superficial level, re-creating the ardent intensity of childhood in a sometimes oblivious adult world. But there is so much more going on here. Each of Razieh's encounters contains a small, ominous aside. Together these add up to a profile of the quiet desperation of ordinary Iranian lives in a society ravaged by revolution, war and international isolation.
In the early scenes, Razieh's nagging is as relentlessly maddening as a midnight car alarm. It is evident that her mother (played by Fereshteh Sadr Orfani), bustling to finish the shopping and cleaning in time for the New Year feast, is a victim of holiday stress. For one thing, she can't afford new shoes for her son -- the Nowruz equivalent of not being able to provide the major item on a Christmas list. For another, her husband, who appears in the film only as a bellowing voice, flinging soap and curses from the bathroom, keeps up a constant flow of distracting demands.
Like many economically struggling Teheranis, the meter-reader husband has a second job. But what he does to make ends meet is kept secret because it is somehow shameful or illicit.
Economic hardship is explored again when Razieh meets a lonely young conscript from the provinces who can't get home for New Year because he lacks the bus fare. Other social pressures emerge. An elderly tailor is intimidated by a young client of the post-revolutionary generation who knows how to use the new system against the old-timers. A young Afghan refugee is abused, used, then thanklessly abandoned in the film's haunting final scene. And there is a suggestion that Razieh's father may have punched her brother in the face.
Perhaps to emphasize the characters' isolation, almost everybody speaks with a non-Teherani accent. As in the film "Moscow on the Hudson," when every New Yorker turned out to be from someplace else, the Teheranis in "The White Balloon" speak Farsi accented by Polish, Turkish and thick regional patois.
Mr. Panahi, the 35-year-old director of "The White Balloon," was to have visited the United States to promote the film during its American release. Instead, friends say he is "location scouting" in the provinces and could not be reached to comment on the attempted withdrawal of his film from Oscar consideration.
Previously, Mr. Panahi has identified the sequence in which Razieh watches the snake charmers as one of his favorites. The scene, he said, was drawn straight from his own childhood, when he defied his father to sneak into "unsuitable" films. Like Razieh, he too "wanted to see what it was that was not good for me to watch."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fereshteh Sadr Orfani, left, and Aida Mohammadkhani in "The White Balloon" -- Ordinary people, not outdated stereotypes. (October Films) (pg. 9); "The Jar," above, an Iranian film, tells a simple story about a cracked water jar at a school; Tahereh Ladania, right, appears in "Through the Olive Trees," a film by Abbas Kiarostami, who wrote the screenplay for "The White Balloon." (Film Forum; Miramax) (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: WHITE BALLOON, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (91%); CENSORSHIP (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); FILM GENRES (76%); CHILD ABUSE (73%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); RELIGION (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (52%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, GERALDINE; PANAHI, JAFAR ABBAS KIAROSTAMI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



705 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 2; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: The View From: Dixwell Avenue, New Haven;
Q House Perseveres as the Economic Crunch Takes Its Toll

BYLINE: By MARY ANN LIMAURO 

 BODY:
THE Dixwell Community House sits in the midst of one of New Haven's oldest black neighborhoods. For more than 70 years the agency's programs have touched the lives of area residents. The founding of the nation's first black Girl Scout troop is only one page of its notable past.
Much has changed, though, since the center opened in 1924 in a brand new two-story brick building several blocks from its present site, seeking to "house the legitimate activities of colored youngsters in the dangerous period of adolescence." 
 The once vibrant area along Dixwell Avenue -- a street that snakes from the edge of the Yale University campus in downtown New Haven to neighboring Hamden's town line -- has measurably declined. Many of the businesses and professional offices that once filled the neighborhood are gone -- along with much of its middle class -- lost in the 1950's and 60's when urban renewal swept through the area.
Harsh economic times and increasing societal ills have also taken a toll, and now the Dixwell area struggles with unemployment, drugs and crime. The Elm Haven Housing Project, a 312-family public housing unit that abuts the Dixwell Community House, regularly tops the city's other 14 housing complexes in number of crimes reported.
Yet, the Dixwell Community House perseveres, surviving shifting politics and the fickle business of vying for financial support.
"Our biggest challenge has always been to secure funding," said Eleanor Boyd, president of the center's 21-member volunteer executive board.
"And as the economic crunch goes on, it gets harder and harder for private agencies to find funding," said Ms. Boyd, who is also director of pupil personnel services for the New Haven School District.
Still, the last several years have been kind to Q House, a nickname given to the center many years ago by children who couldn't pronounce its name. Over the last two years, grants totaling $261,000 from the state's Office of Policy and Managment allowed the center to improve its programs for teen-agers. An endowment fund, created in 1992, has cash and pledges totaling nearly $100,000. An active alumni organization, some 150 strong, provides fund-raising support as well as policy advice.
The stark masonry building, built in 1971, is set back from the street, its cold stone exterior belying the warmth to be found inside. About 50 children from two nearby elementary schools attend the afterschool program each day, one of the agency's earliest efforts. The youth center, open six days a week for 13- to 19-year-olds, attracts about 50 each evening; an outreach program also seeks young people who need help. Life line, a food distribution program for families and home-bound elderly men and women, serves about 175 clients each week. Health services, day care for pre-schoolers and an adult basic education program are also among the community house's services.
Most recently, the 24-year-old Connecticut Afro-American Historical Society took over the second floor of one wing of the building. "Quality programming has always been our emphasis, along with integrity and responsibility," said Theodore F. Hogan, the agency's executive director.
Mr. Hogan, a retired telephone company executive and long-time community advocate, grew up in the Dixwell neighborhood and the Q House, and was once chosen its "boy of the month" at age 12.
For years, Q House programs had focused on pre-adolescent children, he said, until the agency decided to re-establish its program for teen-agers in 1992.
"We weren't addressing the needs of kids 13 and above, so we shifted our focus," Mr. Hogan said. The state grant awarded in 1994, he added, allowed Q House to beef up its fledgling program for teen-agers with a variety of recreational, educational and personal development offerings.
"These are difficult times in dealing with youths," said Mr. Hogan. "Crime and drugs are up, education is down, the family is broken up, and there's a pervasive disrespect for authority among young people. Here at Q House, we deal with it by doing what we always have -- stressing values, teaching the kids to respect not only their elders but themselves, and also getting across the message that they have to pay their own way."
An annual membership fee of $10 provides a valuable lesson for the youngsters, said Mr. Hogan, the lesson that "society can't give you everything, you have to help out by putting something back into the pot."
The program's structured environment outlines a set of rules for everyone. The first one is posted at the front door: "Gentlemen, please remove your hats before entering this building."
Others posted on a nearby bulletin board warn against smoking, drugs or alcohol, and bad language, and a reminder that damaging any Q House equipment or property will not be tolerated. "The kids know that you have to follow the rules; if you don't, you'll be kicked out for a week of two," said 16-year-old Myajuan Hunter, a junior at Hill House High School in New Haven, who was among teen-agers in the center's game room on a recent afternoon.
The game room, with its three pool tables and Ping Pong table, gets lots of visitors. An adjoining weight room, stocked with Nautilus equipment and staffed by a parttime trainer, is also popular.
Other activities offered at the youth center, which is open Monday through Saturday from 4 P.M. to 10 P.M., include a basketball league, computer lab, wood shop, talent shows and dances. One wall in the main corridor regularly serves as a canvas for resident graffiti artists.
Ms. Hunter -- whose mother is enrolled in the adult computer classes -- said she and her friends visit the youth center every day. "My friends and I get bored with nothing to do so this is a good place to come and stay out of trouble," she said.
Sixteen-year-old Jerod Goodman, playing a round of pool with three friends, agreed. "The youth center gets kids off the streets and doing something positive," he said, explaining that he was referred to the center by Juvenile Court several months ago. "We get to talk to the counselors about our problems, and we get to go on trips and see more than just the neighborhood, so it's a totally positive thing."
About 150 young people are served by the Q House outreach effort, which recently expanded beyond the Dixwell neighborhood to include all of New Haven. Funded by a state juvenile justice system grant, The program's staff works closely with the courts, probation office and schools. Originally directed at ages 14 to 17, the program now serves youngsters from 9 to 21.
"We act as mentors, guiding the kids, giving them the tools to become contributing members of society," said Miyiam Sheffield, director of youth services, who, assisted by a staff of six, oversees both the youth center and the outreach program.
Ms. Sheffield described the outreach program's participants as frequently truant from school and sometimes homeless. "We focus on bringing positive things into their lives -- not just recreational, but educational and cultural as well," she said. "Some find it difficult to leave the streets because that's all they know, while some will respond and become role models."
Ms. Sheffield said she and her staff see the results of their efforts daily. "It could be just that they've stopped dealing drugs, or maybe they're getting along better with their parents, or they're back in school and pursuing their education, which is so important," she said
"I see the Q House as being a leader," said Ms. Boyd, "not only in the Dixwell area but in the entire greater New Haven community. We just have to keep working to find the funds to stay open and keep going."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Homework and play are among children's activities at the Dixwell Community House. Food programs for families and elderly men and women in need have also been organized by the center. (Photographs by Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); FAMILY (78%); TRENDS (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (73%); CRIME RATES (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); ALUMNI (64%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (62%); SENIOR CITIZENS (58%); 

PERSON: LIMAURO, MARY ANN THEODORE F HOGAN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



706 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 31; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: A Witness to Her Time

BYLINE: By Edmund White; Edmund White's most recent books are "Our Paris: Sketches From Memory" and "Skinned Alive," a collection of stories about AIDS.

 BODY:

RAT BOHEMIA
By Sarah Schulman.
232 pp. New York:
Dutton. $19.95.
SO many books about AIDS have been sentimental that it's a relief to read one that refuses to find transcendence in the act of dying. As someone who is himself H.I.V. positive, I tend to avoid reading AIDS novels; the only thing I want to read is tomorrow's newspaper saying that a cure has been found. But given my high level of resistance, I suppose my surrender to "Rat Bohemia" is all the more a testimonial to its gimlet-eyed accuracy, its zero-degree honesty, its charnel-house humor. AIDS burnout has at last found its bard in Sarah Schulman. 
 The heroine is Rita, a woman from Queens who kills rats for Pest Control, a local agency housed side by side with Food and Hunger. As she admits, she pays careful attention to everything going on around her: "I want to be a witness to my own time because I've had a sneaking suspicion lately that I'm gonna live a lot longer than most of the people I meet. If I'm gonna be the only one still around to say what happened, I'd better pay close attention now."
She is a lesbian, though anything but a separatist, since she befriends a wide spectrum of people, especially gay men who are dying from AIDS. The strategy of observing gay men with AIDS from a lesbian perspective is ingenious. Rita has known the same rejection by her family as have other victims of homophobia -- in fact, the callousness of the families of lesbians and gay men is the major theme of this novel. As an activist in Act Up she has also experienced all the frustration of fighting a losing battle. But as a lesbian she announces to a bed partner, "I've never heard of anyone who really got H.I.V. sexually from another woman." Both inside and outside the disease, Rita is an ideal chronicler of a community in distress.
One of her defenses is to develop a gallows humor -- she refers to "musical caskets" and "follow the bouncing corpse." Her Cuban friend Manuel observes: "I think they should change the name of this disease. From AIDS to AIDA. Only Leontyne Price can do it justice." Operatic melodrama is exactly what Rita avoids. "One thing I know for sure," she muses, "is that AIDS is not a transforming experience. I know that we tend to romanticize things like death based on some kind of religious model of conversion and redemption. We expect that once people stare down their mortality in the mirror they will understand something profound about death and life that the rest of us have to wait until old age to discover. But that's not what happens. Actually, people just become themselves. But ever so much more so."
Rita may be trying to improve her powers of memory, but she has little hope that the life being wasted and lost all around her will be recalled for very long. Her gay friend David is dying, and what disturbs him most is the idea that he and others who have already died will be forgotten. He tells anecdotes about those who died a decade ago, hoping to keep their memories alive, but Rita is starting to confuse one with another. He goes on trips so he can write letters to friends in New York, letters that will stand as a memorial to him after he's gone. I kept thinking of a friend of mine whose own prospects are bleak but who is devoting most of his time to preparing the slides and written records left behind by three dead friends for a new archive in New York devoted to artists who have died of AIDS. So much memory, so few rememberers.
Rita's best friend is another young lesbian, nicknamed Killer, a professional plant-waterer who is clever about everything except how to get a decent job. Until she can find one, she rents out her own apartment as a bed-and-breakfast to European tourists she picks up in expensive espresso bars.
The form of the book is puzzling. I remember that back in the 1970's feminists were always saying they rejected the Aristotelian form that had dominated so much of Western literature, with its tightly woven plot, its subordination of detail to overall design, its rigid economy of means. Perhaps "Rat Bohemia" is a thoroughly non-Aristotelian contraption. Its first section, told from Rita's point of view, introduces all the principal characters (including David and Killer) and the theme that human beings have become the moral equivalent of vermin. The second section, written from David's point of view, amplifies the idea that families are out to kill their gay children. David's parents speak constantly of the deaths of obscure elderly relatives but never acknowledge the weekly losses that David must deal with. His father has almost totally rejected him; the only intermediary is the mother, herself acutely insensitive to her child's needs. Even when he was young he was disliked because he was too much a sissy: "There was always an invisible Dave, one that had never existed and never could exist, that they expected to find, miraculously each morning at the breakfast table. And when, instead, all they got was little silly-willy me, with limp wrists and a will of steel, little courageous sissy-wissy me, they were deeply angry."
The third section, which functions as a parenthesis, at least in the plot, is called "Killer in Love," and is an idyll-in-the-ruins between Killer and her quirky new girlfriend, Troy. These women speak like gutter dandies and have become experts in the semiotics of the lesbian body. Whereas so much of what precedes and follows this section is an angry storm, here the novel is becalmed, snared by poetry: "Will I stay in bed reading in the morning while my lover sleeps beside me? The trees outside my window. My tattoo. Her book. Will I bustle, bring her coffee? Read the paper silently? Comment on an article and happen to look up? Her body there before me. Sitting sipping coffee. Eating bread so slowly. Hair unkempt. Feet bare." I suppose the narrative so convincingly depicts the absence of family love, and the paucity of convincing images of love that homosexuals can use to validate their own affairs, that this middle section functions as the necessarily calm eye of the storm, a utopian interlude in an otherwise infernal story.
The fourth part of the book, again told by Rita, intensifies her longing for parental love as well as her burden as a survivor and a witness to the deaths of so many friends. She runs into a closeted lesbian novelist, Muriel Kay Starr. Almost all the characters in "Rat Bohemia" are reading her new book, "Good and Bad." Starr gives Rita her version of her tormented friendship with David (who has just died). But Rita isn't buying it. She says to Starr: "He was mad at you for writing closeted novels. For not even being out in your author bio on the back of the book."
That links up with the closing pages of "Rat Bohemia," a reprint of the first four chapters, all very brief, of "Good and Bad." In this excerpt we discover for ourselves exactly how Starr has battened on the lives of her gay and lesbian friends, retold their stories and even captured their suffering -- but in impeccably commercial heterosexual terms.
The form of this book surprised me, and its humor often struck me as highly elusive. But a rapacious cruelty and despair (represented by the rats and rat extermination) are joined to a whimsical bohemianism, a fierce individualism. As Killer explains, in the 50's people could afford to be Beats, but "nowadays, with the economy the way it is, you can't drop out or you'll be homeless. You gotta function to be a boho. You have to meet the system head on at least once in a while and that meeting, Rita, is very brutal. Nowadays you have to pay a very high price to become a bohemian."
There are few other works of fiction that I could compare with "Rat Bohemia"; the only book I know that presents its contemporary misrables with the same jauntiness is "My Life as a Mole," a collection of New York stories about gay life, published in 1988. Otherwise, Sarah Schulman seems to have the field to herself. Even her own earlier books, like "People in Trouble" and "Empathy," despite the fact that they, too, take place in the East Village and deal with AIDS, carry none of the emotional punch of "Rat Bohemia." The force of her indignation is savage and has blown the traditional novel off its hinges. If she were contributing to the quilt project, her quilt would be on fire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RAT BOHEMIA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS AIDS & HIV (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); FAMILY (69%); RELIGION (60%); 

PERSON: WHITE, EDMUND; SCHULMAN, SARAH SARAH SCHULMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



707 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: After Oslo

BYLINE: By Barbara Smith; Barbara Smith is the Middle East correspondent of The Economist.

 BODY:

PEACE AND ITS DISCONTENTS
Essays on Palestine in the Middle East Peace Process.
By Edward W. Said.
188 pp. New York: Vintage Books. Paper, $12.
AN intellectual, says Edward W. Said, a professor of English and comparative literature at Columbia University, must be a rebel against prevailing ideas. In "Peace and Its Discontents" he follows his own precept well: few can match the pungency with which he challenges conventional wisdom on the Middle East peace process -- the belief that it is an ineluctably good thing, threatened by self-evidently bad extremists. 
 Mr. Said mounts his challenge from high moral ground, having long favored a political solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict. But the Oslo compromise he finds contemptible. His people, the Arab-American professor argues fiercely, have been gulled into giving away their trump -- Israel's desire for Arab recognition -- for little more than a pat on the back from the United States. The interim arrangement leaves residents of the West Bank and Gaza subservient to Israel, and also subject to the petty dictatorship of Yasir Arafat, a leader he finds beyond redemption.
A fatal weakness of the peace agreement, he argues, is that it squanders the gains and sacrifices of the intifada without getting in return any commitment from Israel on Palestinian self-determination, the status of East Jerusalem or repatriation or compensation for Palestinian refugees. It splits the Palestinian nation in half, writes Mr. Said (who was displaced from his birthplace in Jerusalem in 1948), offering no future at all to the 55 percent, many of them stateless, who live outside the occupied territories.
"Peace and Its Discontents" brings together articles written after the September 1993 Rabin-Arafat handshake and is addressed primarily to an Arab audience. Though some of the articles have also been published in American and European magazines, they were originally written for Al Hayat, a leading Saudi-owned Arabic newspaper published in London, or for Al Ahram, a weekly newspaper published in Cairo.
Their sorrow and their anger are good, scolding stuff, an articulate tirade against perceived folly and uncritical applause. But, inevitably, the articles are dated. And since they were written before Yitzhak Rabin's assassination, some are off-key. Mr. Said's argument is based on the premise that the Oslo agreement enabled Israel to attain all its strategic and tactical objectives without its having to cede anything of value in return. Tell that to the Likud opposition, let alone to Rabin's confessed murderer. His assumption, moreover, that the terms of the agreement give Israel no cause for complaint or fear sits oddly with the current state of that country, now torn by religious and political dissension.
Mr. Said writes that Palestine must be restored "to its place not simply as a small piece of territory between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River but as an idea that for years galvanized the Arab world into thinking about and fighting for social justice, democracy and a different kind of future." This sounds high-minded, but the Palestinians' fight, so far as it existed, got nobody anywhere: the Arab world obtained neither social justice nor democracy, and Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza continued to suffer from a repressive occupation. Now, at least, Israel has moved its troops out of most of the main towns in the West Bank and Gaza, and Palestinians have held free elections. What happens next is unknown.
The Oslo agreement is a gamble. The issues that matter most were left to the talks on a permanent solution, due to start in May. The Palestinians have no guarantee of getting what they want, or anything like it. Mr. Said expects the worst and could well turn out to be right: he certainly has reason to mourn the gap now yawning between the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza and those in the diaspora. But he tosses aside the inevitable question: what should the Palestinians do instead? Surely, he says impatiently, among six million Palestinians any number of alternatives could be found. Yes, but what were they then and what are they now?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PEACE AND ITS DISCONTENTS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); JORDAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (67%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); JORDAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (67%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); REFUGEES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); RELIGION (70%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: SMITH, BARBARA; SAID, EDWARD S TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



708 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 29; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: The Momentary Science

BYLINE: By Richard Parker; Richard Parker, an economist, teaches at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government.

 BODY:

THE CRISIS OF VISION IN MODERN ECONOMIC THOUGHT
By Robert Heilbroner and William Milberg.
131 pp. New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Cloth, $44.95. Paper, $14.95.
ECONOMICS -- a relative latecomer to the modern social sciences -- has frequently had occasion to revel in the stature it has achieved. The President has no Council of Sociological Advisers, and there is no Nobel laureate in psychology or history. Economists are everywhere sought after, called upon by governments, corporations and the news media to impart meaning to what so often seems frightening and confusing -- from our declining wages and stagnating productivity to our endless trade and budget deficits. So why does economics as a profession seem under siege? 
 A recent study by the American Economic Association, for example, found that nearly two-thirds of graduate economics professors consider their calling "overly mathematical" and "too unrelated to the real world." The number of Americans earning Ph.D.'s in economics has fallen by almost half in the past 20 years, to barely 400 a year.
In universities, the field of economics exists in a fractious state labeled -- for want of a better term -- "post-Keynesian," akin to the oddly drifting larger world we've come to call "post-Communist." As in the external world, a divisive fundamentalism seems rife. There are the old advocates of neoclassical synthesis, monetarists, new classicals, neo- and post-Keynesians, neo-institutionalists, supply-siders and several variant Marxists -- a cacophony, in short, in a profession that for the preceding 40 years had effectively spoken in one voice.
But why? The explanation by Robert Heilbroner and William Milberg in "The Crisis of Vision in Modern Economic Thought" may be the most imaginative to date. It is, they argue in this disarmingly challenging little book, what they term "a crisis of vision."
For Mr. Heilbroner, the Norman Thomas Professor of Economics, Emeritus, at the New School for Social Research, and Mr. Milberg, an assistant professor of economics at the New School, vision is neither a religious nor a mystical experience. It is what Joseph Schumpeter 40 years ago identified in his commanding "History of Economic Analysis" as a pre-analytic, pre-theoretical grasp of the central issues each great period in economics is meant to address. Possessed of such vision, economics enters what Mr. Heilbroner and Mr. Milberg call "classical situations," extended historical moments when the richness of the central vision gives rise to industrious reflection and analysis that fills out the vision and gives it both power and meaning for its particular age.
Adam Smith and the classical economists possessed such a vision. So did Alfred Marshall and the marginalists -- and so, of course, did John Maynard Keynes. But, the authors argue, in the 1970's economics was battered by real-world events as well as by a theory crisis induced by the challenge of the "rational expectations" school. By moving away from Keynes and instead seeking understanding through the advancement of mathematically sophisticated (but increasingly arcane) analytics, it failed to maintain a vision. As a consequence, Mr. Heilbroner and Mr. Milberg believe, economics lacks purpose and clarity -- and, not least, relevance to the larger world.
To those who insist that economics is best precisely at techniques, not visions, Mr. Heilbroner and Mr. Milberg offer strong historical evidence to the contrary. Revisiting the shaping moments and works of each great "classical situation," they identify how visions emerged and took hold -- whether the visions were those of David Ricardo, Lon Walras, Marx or Keynes -- and how they guided practice and theory.
In a series of chapters at the heart of the book, Mr. Heilbroner and Mr. Milberg then examine how the Keynesian "moment" came unraveled, how its challengers --first monetarism but then, with greater force, rational expectations -- sought to overthrow the Keynesian model, and how neo-Keynesianism's attempted "rescue" has fared in response. For those interested in the momentous shifts in intellectual argument about economics over the past two decades, "The Crisis of Vision in Modern Economic Thought" offers a powerfully insightful tour d'horizon of the battlefield.
It has long been the gift of the book's senior author, Mr. Heilbroner, to treat competing schools of thought with both clarity and seriousness, all the while linking their contributions to his central concern with economic vision. Educated (like most of his generation) into an instinctive Keynesianism, he has always been strongest addressing economics through the lenses of the history and the philosophy of ideas, tracing the evolution of arguments through the course of time.
Significantly, he and Mr. Milberg insist here that for economics to recapture a sense of vision, it must understand why it is (as the philosopher Daniel Hausman has called it) "a separate and inexact science," apart from the natural sciences. In particular, economics must better understand why it is a subject deeply immersed in history -- at present reflecting the presuppositions of capitalism and its institutional arrangements -- rather than, like physics or chemistry, a means for discovering universal natural laws.
Secondly, the authors argue, unlike both 19th-century classical economics and the modern post-Keynesian contenders, a new economic vision must come to terms with the public sector's inescapable role in balancing the forces to which capitalism gives rise. Mr. Heilbroner and Mr. Milberg acknowledge the contrary political fashions of the moment (especially in Washington), but they insist that the tendencies of modern markets require a dynamic public sector, albeit one adaptive and ingenious enough to address (and, where needed, shape) the market's changing structures and forces.
Will Robert E. Lucas Jr. -- last year's Nobel laureate for his work in rational expectations -- be persuaded? Unlikely. But for the moment a great number of economists, policy makers and informed citizens seem uncertain, and genuinely concerned, about how to address the confusion and division that characterizes the post-Keynesian era. For them, the authors have written a trenchant and challenging prolegomenon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CRISIS OF VISION IN MODERN ECONOMIC THOUGHT, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; ECONOMICS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); WRITERS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); 

PERSON: PARKER, RICHARD; HEILBRONER, ROBERT; MILBERG, WILLIAM WILLIAM MILBERG (95%); ROBERT HEILBRONER (95%); JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



709 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 8; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Bad News

BYLINE: By Kevin Phillips; Kevin Phillips is the publisher of The American Political Report. His most recent book is "Arrogant Capital: Washington, Wall Street and the Frustration of American Politics."

 BODY:

BREAKING THE NEWS
 How the Media Undermine
 American Democracy.
 By James Fallows.
 296 pp. New York: Pantheon Books. $23.
IN 1991, E. J. Dionne Jr., now a columnist at The Washington Post, inaugurated the current spate of books on "whom and what Americans hate" with his book "Why Americans Hate Politics." Since then we have had books on why Americans loathe Washington, lawyers, Wall Street, foreign lobbyists and the like. It is a flourishing genre. In the autumn of 1994, a Time/CNN poll pinpointed the groups Americans particularly thought had too much influence in Washington: big corporations, the news media, Wall Street, lawyers, foreign interests and the rich. Now comes James Fallows, the Washington editor of The Atlantic Monthly, to tackle one of these transgressors in "Breaking the News: How the Media Undermine American Democracy." The headline on the back of the jacket goes whole hog, in big red letters: "Why Americans Hate the Media." 
 This flamboyance does not make it a bad book. On the contrary, it's a useful one, partly for the simple reason that the book's target -- the power of the news media and of their leading word warriors -- resonates at the grass roots. The citizenry seems to agree with many of his points. The elite news media in Washington are a permanent government of sorts. And Americans don't think there's enough accountability, although Mr. Fallows could have weighed in with some data. No poll, to be sure, has actually asked whether the people favor term limits for Washington pundits -- eight years and you're back in Cincinnati, Harry -- but the press panels I have been on agree that the public would support the idea.
Mr. Fallows also bowls a strike when he describes prominent national journalists as upper-bracket folks who lean to upper-bracket public policy. Some of them -- he certainly names names -- get more for a single speech than the average family makes in a year, and the chapter on the "buckrakers" should produce chuckles at the Chillicothe Rotary Club along with apoplexy among the regulars on "This Week With David Brinkley." Endorsements of cutbacks in entitlements and of the North American Free Trade Agreement come too easily to unctuous millionaire journalists.
He attacks "The McLaughlin Group" and similar television programs as gong shows whose participants know they are clowning. In fact, too many talk shows do operate as described by one especially candid participant: "What's good TV and what's thoughtful analysis are different. That's been conceded by most producers and bookers. They're not looking for the most learned person; they're looking for the person who can sound learned without confusing the matter with too much knowledge. I'm one of the people without too much knowledge. I'm perfect!"
Mr. Fallows's pithy language generally makes for easy reading, whether he's assuming that the core audience for the nightly news is aging -- based on "what seem to be their most frequent advertisers," namely, "Geritol, Polident, Mylanta, Attends" -- or venting recurrent (probably excessive) put-downs of Mike, Diane, Sam and George and their incomes and supposed double standards. But like the mass journalism he attacks, Mr. Fallows has all the juicy stuff -- the big names, the income estimates, the personal foibles -- up front (or at least midbook). The last hundred pages slump into John Dewey, Walter Lippmann and a turgid dissection of coverage of President Clinton's health care proposal that only insomniacs will be interested in reading.
Near the beginning of the book, the author quotes Charles Prestwich Scott, for half a century the editor of The Manchester Guardian, as saying that "the function of a good newspaper and therefore of a good journalist is to see life steady and see it whole." Theoretically, it still is. Scott's words, however, come out of 19th-century journalism, when newspapers had soared to a huge readership from the minor circulation of the 18th century, and were still far from competition from broadcast and information technology. Since then two forces have converged, weakening Scott's thesis in a way Mr. Fallows could have better explored. First, the news media have become just one competing component of a highly corporate and profit-driven information megabusiness, which reaches from straight entertainment to on-line data. And second, there is the related problem of how the news-and-analysis segments of the mass media, especially broadcasters, face profit demands. They either increase their show-biz quality or else migrate to PBS or the Learning Channel. Show biz is winning, but the audience is generally shrinking anyway.
MOREOVER, Americans don't hate "the media" entirely. People in northwest Connecticut don't hate The Litchfield County Times. History buffs don't hate The Georgia Historical Quarterly. Cooks don't hate Gourmet. The media Americans are presumed to "hate" are the gatekeepers and trumpet players of national debate and opinion, the people who hold forth in their columns and at anchor desks, who enjoy incomes in the top 1 percent and offend large chunks of America as they deploy their ebbing power -- new technologies are already diffusing it -- to explain, simplify or oversimplify American culture, politics and economics. Mr. Fallows presumes that the power is enormous, but he may exaggerate.
Twenty years ago, following Watergate, I published a book called "Mediacracy: American Parties and Politics in the Communications Age," which argued that aristocracy and democracy were giving way to a "mediacracy" in which a new information elite would dominate. Some of that has happened. But I overestimated the political power of the new media elites. The media elites of the late 1960's and early 1970's, even had they been so inclined, couldn't stop successive waves of conservative politics beginning in 1968 and 1972, resuming in 1980 and running right up to 1994. Arguably, the media elites even helped provoke them. Now there is a new conservative element among the working press, but there are signs that the public is starting to sour on some of the new conservative trumpet players as it loses faith in the new conservative Washington. Newt Gingrich and Rush Limbaugh may well be losing political and broadcast market shares together.
Mr. Fallows's book -- again like the prestigious news media he faults -- could have greater scope. The journalists on the television networks, national news magazines and newspapers that the author targets derive much of their weakness not from specific journalistic failings on their part, but from the fact that they have been absorbed into the larger national establishment and elite that the public dislikes. Many of his subjects are also part of the Washington establishment in the broader sense of being millionaires, Ivy League roommates of senators, more frequent travelers to Tuscany than to Texarkana, husbands and sisters of superlobbyists, fellow parents at Sidwell or St. Albans and fellow partygoers with the rest of the cabal to an extent that would have been impossible 60 or 80 years ago, although traces of this new status were becoming apparent in the 1940's and 1950's. Insider lawyers, lobbyists, Congressmen, bureaucrats, trade consultants, economists and foreign-policy makers are in just as much disrepute as insider journalists because they, too, have helped make Washington a city only 20 percent of Americans trust. Voters don't separate these groups as much as some Pulitzer Prize or Emmy winners would like to think. Grass-roots Americans view this whole crowd as part of a giant buddy system, as in some ways it is.
As an indictment, "Breaking the News" is in some ways overstated. The author overdoes a negative portraiture to make his point. Anyone with an hour for a Nexis computer search can come up with 50 courageous exposs in 1995 of special interests buying Congressional favors, lobbies run amok, the plight of the middle class and suchlike in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, The Chicago Tribune, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Los Angles Times and The Boston Globe. The ghost of Lincoln Steffens is not gone from the nation's pressrooms. A well-edited compendium of these articles would sell out in Wal-Marts and Kmarts from Maine to California, rebutting what Mr. Fallows seems to imply about the fecklessness of the press.
Or would it? It is not an accident that Mr. Fallows's book is laced with quotations from journalists supporting his case. There may be enough oversimplifications in the book to warrant follow-ups and critiques, but there is also too much candor and truth to dismiss it.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BREAKING THE NEWS (BOOK)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (55%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OHIO, USA (55%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PHILLIPS, KEVIN; FALLOWS, JAMES JAMES FALLOWS (94%); CHARLES PRESTWICH SCOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



710 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 33; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Star Over Trenton

BYLINE: By Jerry Gray; Jerry Gray, now a Congressional correspondent for The New York Times, was formerly Trenton bureau chief.

 BODY:

Christie Whitman for the People
A Political Biography.
By Sandy McClure.
Illustrated. 282 pp.
Amherst, N.Y.:
Prometheus Books.
$24.95.
Six years ago, Christine Todd Whitman broke upon the New Jersey political scene when she came within a whisker of upsetting Senator Bill Bradley. Three years later, as a decided underdog, she whipped Gov. Jim Florio to become the state's first woman governor. Now, midway through her first term, Mrs. Whitman has made the short list of potential Vice-Presidential running mates for the 1996 Republican ticket. 
 On paper, Mrs. Whitman seems an ideal candidate for a political biography. But one of the first serious attempts to test that notion -- "Christie Whitman for the People," by Sandy McClure -- comes a cropper. Ms. McClure serves up a Christine Whitman who is so sugary that it should cause even the Governor queasiness. "This is a story," the preface declares, "about a wealthy woman from a politically prominent family -- a wife, a mother, a governor -- who is fulfilling the deeper promise of her heritage."
 Part of the problem with the book appears to lie in the fact that the author ignored the admonition Orson Welles used to deliver when he was a pitchman for a winery: "We will sell no wine before its time." Despite her recent political stardom and the fact that she hails from one of the most powerful families in New Jersey, Mrs. Whitman is a newcomer on the political stage. And while there is much about her upbringing and her political grittiness to make for some interesting reading, once you are beyond her tax-cutting aplomb, there is not a whole lot left for a decent political biography. The youngest of four children, the future Governor was born on Sept. 26, 1946. Her family's wealth lay in construction: the Todd men built Colonial Williamsburg and helped define the Manhattan skyline by erecting Rockefeller Center. But politics, too, was a family business. Mrs. Whitman's father, Webster Todd Sr., led the state Republican Party during much of the 1960's and 70's and used his personal wealth to keep it alive. He was a friend to Presidents and served as Dwight Eisenhower's economic minister to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Mrs. Whitman's mother, Eleanor Schley Todd, was a political player in her own right. She led the Women's State Republican Club of New Jersey and several times she was a delegate to the Republican National Convention.
 As a child, Christie Todd is variously described as "an American version of the mischievous Madeline in Ludwig Bemelmans's famous books," as tomboyish, as uncomfortable with her looks ("she was a plain, overweight child") and as petulant. At the 1956 Republican National Convention in San Francisco, the 9-year-old Christie upstaged a news conference called by her mother and other G.O.P. women by turning up wearing a Mickey Mouse hat with a novelty dagger poking out of her head.
 As a political reporter for The Trentonian, a Trenton-based daily, Ms. McClure covered the Whitman gubernatorial campaign and followed the Whitman Administration on a nearly daily basis for its first 18 months. As a biographer, she was given open-door access to the generally insular Mrs. Whitman. She spent hours interviewing the Governor, members of her family, her friends and members of the gubernatorial staff. "Certain family members, who normally shy away from press coverage, opened their homes, family albums and scrapbooks to me," Ms. McClure says.
 Yet in the main part of "Christie Whitman for the People," we are given little more than a tedious rehash of newspaper clips from her 1993 run for governor, which included a nightmarishly bumbling election campaign that was rescued at the 11th hour by her promise of a tax cut. By the end of the book, we have made quick stops at the highlights, and some of the lowlights, in Mrs. Whitman's life. But we never gain any real sense of how those events shaped the woman or her politics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: CHRISTIE WHITMAN FOR THE PEOPLE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (53%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: COLONIAL WILLIAMSBURG FOUNDATION (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (53%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FAMILY (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); CHILDREN (69%); FAMILY COMPANIES (67%); WINERIES (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (96%); GEORGE ORSON 'ORSON' WELLES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



711 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 25; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Deferred Gratification

BYLINE: By Robert Kuttner; Robert Kuttner is co-editor of The American Prospect.

 BODY:

THE GOOD LIFE AND ITS DISCONTENTS
The American Dream in the Age of Entitlement, 1945-1995.
By Robert J. Samuelson.
293 pp. New York:
Times Books/Random House. $25.
Robert J. Samuelson's intriguing thesis is that Americans are "in an almost permanent state of public grumpiness" because the postwar boom and its institutions created a culture of "entitlement." By this word, he means not just Social Security and Medicare but a presumption that capitalism could be tamed by a blend of Government safety nets and corporate management techniques. So unusual was this period and so exaggerated the expectations it spawned, Mr. Samuelson argues, that we were bound to be disappointed. 
 In reviewing the postwar boom, Mr. Samuelson finds several aspects historically exceptional: America's temporary dominance of the world economy; the crusade against Communism, which gave us unity and national purpose; the apparent success of Keynesianism in smoothing business cycles, and the temporary triumph of managerialism, which suggested that corporations could be stable and benign. These conjunctures, he contends, caused us to mistake a singular era for a permanent resolution of life's uncertainty and capitalism's turbulence. We also came to expect far too much of government, overloading it with claims that backfired in a frustration with politics. We confused, he says, "progress with perfection."
 Mr. Samuelson concludes with a familiar lament about the politics of overload: Citizens have contradictory views about whether government should do much or stay cheap. The politician's course of least resistance is to have taxes lag behind outlays, leading to chronic deficits. And while citizens join interest groups, they resent a politics that seems dominated by selfish lobbyists. The growth of rights and entitlements compounds all these tensions. "Government that is overused," he says, "undermines its own competence and subverts consent."
 Mr. Samuelson writes briskly and confidently. His copious footnotes suggest a work informed by a good deal of reading and reflection. The entitlement thesis is provocative, and at least half right. Still, he begs the central question: Whose good life? Whose discontents?
 Mr. Samuelson repeatedly poses what he calls the postwar paradox: "If American society, by and large, has been so successful, why do so many Americans feel so dejected about the results?" But he takes great pains to avoid the most parsimonious explanation: recent slow growth and widening inequality. In a too-abbreviated discussion of income distribution, he acknowledges that most households have realized scant material improvement for a generation, even as economic security has also been eroding. The generation before, when average incomes doubled, the largest relative gains went to the poor and the working class, and both social benefits and job security were at a peak of reliability. No wonder so many people feel sour today.
 But Mr. Samuelson selectively uses 1940 as a bench mark, to suggest that Americans are significantly better off than in the old days: "In 1940, more than a fifth of Americans still lived on farms," he writes. "More than half of households didn't have a refrigerator." Using 1973 -- the peak of the postwar boom -- yields a stunningly different story, and a more straightforward explanation for the current anxiety.
 The 1980's and 1990's have been splendidly satisfying for the top 5 percent of Americans, but justifiably uneasy for many others. Mr. Samuelson's chronic overuse of the pronoun "we" elides the plain fact that grumpiness and economic distress are not universal. He insists that Americans generally are living better: "We are healthier, work at less exhausting jobs and live longer than at any time in our history." This is the fallacy of composition -- the error of attributing the same characteristics to the parts and the whole. Or, as Tonto once explained to the Lone Ranger, "What you mean, 'We'?"
 Having offered a novel analysis that Americans suffer from excessive entitlement, Mr. Samuelson offers the mild cure of the prevailing wisdom: acknowledge that there are limits, balance the Federal budget and redeem the idea of personal responsibility. At times, Mr. Samuelson seems to place himself on both sides of his own argument. His message that Americans should cease indulging a pessimism based on inflated expectations requires him to remind us how well we are really doing, thanks to increased prosperity, security and social insurance. But his message also is that many of these measures were unsustainable: "The face of American capitalism has changed," he writes. "It is less protective and more predatory." But if that is so, then Americans are right to feel anxious. It's hard to have it both ways.
 A weakness of this book is conflating several arguments rather than helping the reader sort them out. Were our expectations for stable prosperity exaggerated all along? Or are we really doing a lot better than we admit? Is it that some people are doing better at the expense of others? Or that some aspects of the human condition are beyond material remedy? These are very distinct and somewhat contradictory contentions, each with different implications.
 A related flaw is leaving out politics. Surely, some groups and individuals have gained immensely from the new configuration of state and market, to the pain of others. His tacit counsel is passivity: lower our expectations. His cures would largely accept the growing maldistribution of life's rewards as an immutable hallmark of capitalism, and leave remedy to the individual. Mr. Samuelson dismisses an interventionist set of cures as more entitlement and overload, without quite acknowledging that his is just one side of an enduring political debate, and not a proven law of economics.
 The economist and philosopher Albert O. Hirschman, in a gem of a short book titled "The Rhetoric of Reaction" (1991), identified three recurring arguments against government intervention, dating back more than two centuries. He called them perversity, futility and jeopardy: tinkering with the economy and society would either backfire or be a waste of time and resources or place other valued institutions at risk. To these rhetorical staples, we can now add entitlement: interventions impair our democracy, hobble our economy, sap our personal responsibility.
 In sum, "The Good Life and Its Discontents" combines sound partial insights with a thesis that doesn't entirely compute. One virtue of the book is to remind us how much has changed in two short decades. Mr. Samuelson is certainly right that there are limits to American power and to what government can provide. He also is right that much of the recent increase in standards -- cleaner air, more reliable medicines -- is not experienced as discretionary personal consumption. And he is right that Americans are "schizoid" in what they expect of government. Yet one can profit from Mr. Samuelson's thoughtful prose and still come to markedly different conclusions about the cause, cure and above all the politics of America's current discontent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GOOD LIFE AND ITS DISCONTENTS, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: TIMES BOOKS (72%); MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); LOBBYING (77%); MEDICARE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (63%); 

PERSON: KUTTNER, ROBERT; SAMUELSON, ROBERT J ROBERT J SAMUELSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



712 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 3; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/The American Surety Building;
An 1890's Skyscraper May Become a Landmark

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
THE American Surety Building, at the southeast corner of Pine Street and Broadway, was the Seagram Building of the 1890's, the apotheosis of sensitive office-building design at a time when new skyscrapers were widely criticized.
But in search of beauty, the owners skipped a few legal steps, and almost had to demolish what everyone praised. Now the Landmarks Preservation Commission is considering whether the 1896 building, doubled in size in 1921, is worthy of landmark designation -- and so is the current owner. 
 The introduction of the steel frame in New York in 1889 immediately doubled the economic height of office buildings -- at that time buildings usually topped out at 10 or 11 stories. The doubling also increased land values.
In 1894 the American Surety Company, established in 1884 to guarantee corporate and legal obligations, paid almost $1.5 million for a squarish plot at Broadway and Pine, measuring only 85 feet on a side. The architect Bruce Price won a competition for a new skyscraper.
Price's 21-story building, 312 feet high, was apparently the second tallest in New York, after the 313-foot-high Manhattan Life Building of 1893 at 66 Broadway, which is no longer standing.
THE American Surety Building came at a time when the new crop of tall buildings was shocking New Yorkers. In 1894 the Real Estate Record & Guide said the incipient generation of 20-story buildings "evokes only one feeling, that of horror."
The Chamber of Commerce proposed restrictions on tall buildings, and most architects agreed with a bill introduced in Albany to restrict heights.
Their objections involved increased sewage, congestion and fire danger, and the shutting off of light and air to adjacent buildings.
There was also the question of esthetics: In the magazine Architectural Record the critic Russell Sturgis decried the "inconceivably ugly back walls and side walls . . . hardly justifiable even in the rear wall of a cheap brick three-story dwelling house."
Perhaps because of the controversy the new American Surety Building was unlike any previously built. In basic quality it was almost public in character. Built entirely of Maine granite, it presented Broadway with a giant Ionic entry portico surmounted by standing female figures representing honesty, fidelity, self-denial and other virtues, by the sculptor J. Massey Rhind.
Above, the relation between the raised banding and the width of the shaft worked with particular harmony, and the upper floors and attic were sumptuously carved.
But the most distinctive elements were the lot-line walls: they were fully detailed, all the way around the building, something not even done on Fifth Avenue mansions.
The writer Barr Ferree, writing in Stone magazine, praised the American Surety Company and predicted "the heartfelt thanks of all art lovers for its wise and generous action."
But it turned out that the American Surety Company was being generous with the property of another: John Jacob Astor 4th. Astor owned the L-shaped parcel around the new building, and the American Surety Building's cornices, banding and other elements projected up to three feet over the low buildings on Astor's lot. Astor protested in mid-construction and was rebuffed.
In May 1896 he had his engineers, Purdy & Henderson, file plans for a new 21-story building on his land that would not only shear off much of Bruce Price's decoration, but block up the 200-odd windows that overlooked Astor's property.
Within a few weeks the American Surety Company had agreed to lease Astor's property for $75,000 a year, about $900 for each office it was protecting.
The American Surety Building remained a point of reference for critics and architects long after its construction, even after the 1916 zoning law placed the first regulation on office heights.
IN 1921 the company expanded, and its architect, Herman Lee Meader, extended the building 40 feet on both Pine and Broadway, matching the exterior design exactly but more than doubling its area, making what had been an elegant shaft rather ungainly.
Meader put in a light shaft along the new south side of the building, but he repeated Price's earlier touch of projecting the cornice over the adjacent property, an effect still visible from the street.
In 1975, when the Bank of Tokyo cleaned the facade and half-restored, half-modernized Meader's sumptuous lobby, Ada Louise Huxtable, the architecture critic of The New York Times, called American Surety "one of those sleeper landmarks."
The Landmarks Preservation Commission, under its chairwoman, Jennifer Raab, has been very active in downtown Manhattan, which has heretofore been lightly touched by preservationists. In September and December the commission held hearings on the American Surety Building.
The owner, the Hiro Real Estate Company, continues to decline comment, but according to Deborah Sack, a spokeswoman for the commission, Ms. Raab has been having "a lot of discussions" with Hiro.
This scenario has occurred often when an owner will accept designation but wants to work out fine points of what will and will not be regulated, and how closely.
Ms. Sack said the commission would hold a determining vote on the American Surety Building sometime this spring.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The building, whose space was doubled in 1921, is now being considered for landmarking. A vote is due in spring. (Rachel Cobb for The New York Times); The 21-story American Surety Building in 1896, year of its completion. (The American Architect and Building News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ARCHITECTURAL RECORD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); WRITERS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); SCULPTURE (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER DAVID DAVIS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



713 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Casino Wars;
A New, Dazzling Las Vegas Downtown

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev.

 BODY:
A SEQUINED wall of mega-resorts along the famous Strip just outside this desert city is growing ever larger and outlandish in a nearly $2 billion hotel-building spree now under way.
Meanwhile, just a few miles away the gritty historic casino hub downtown is tidying up, has built itself a canopy of two million lights and is erecting its own hotels on a far lesser scale. 
 Casino operators are hoping that the dazzle of even more theme architecture and amusement-park spectacles will attract some of the city's 29 million visitors their way. Companies are spending unprecedented amounts of money, building bigger and bigger resorts with emphasis on the "curb appeal" of a 150-foot Statue of Liberty or a rustic Italian village with 10-acre alpine lake.
To remain competitive, many hotel operators without a crane swinging overhead are formulating plans to expand towers into their parking lots, or are considering buying a dowdy hotel neighbor to either spruce up, or blow up and build anew.
The latest of the downtown's huge construction projects to be completed is along Fremont Street, a main thoroughfare that, in recent years, was best known for its growing number of topless clubs and "Check Cashing Here" services. Casino profits in the neighborhood sagged in the last four years as gamblers avoided the area's seediness for the splendor of an exploding volcano or a streetside pirate-ship battle on the Strip.
Casino operators felt compelled to unite, with help from the city, to revitalize the area by closing off traffic to create a pedestrian mall and the largest light show ever. Fremont Street is now the nave for an 80-foot high cathedral vault of lights stretching five blocks.
After dusk, during hourly shows, lights blink with images of fighter jets buzzing the neighborhood or snowmen dancing to a jingle. On one recent evening, thousands of people craned their necks to watch.
"Downtown had aged," said Mark Brandenburg, managing partner of the downtown Golden Gate Casino and Hotel, which was built in 1905. "We needed a must-see attraction. You come downtown now and it feels clean and safe. It has a unique mystique of the steel frame that unites the eight casinos. There is no question that it has made Fremont Street more attractive to a middle-America market."
Called Fremont Street Experience, the project preserved the neighborhood's quirky neon atmosphere, while ejecting the once-regular crew of pornography peddlers and panhandlers with a new city ordinance that specifically focused on downtown. Nevertheless, the area is not targeted to the family market; hence its theme: "Where adults come to play."
THE $70 million cost of the Fremont Street Experience was divided by eight neighborhood casinos, which supplied $25 million; the city, which spent $27 million, mostly on a new parking garage; and by tourists, via a downtown hotel room tax. Casino operators, long competitive with one another, spent months of second-guessing ideas that ranged from creating a Venice-like system of canals (with gondola rides) to suspending movable floats above the street.
"In the old days, the approach from the casinos' point of view was to bring people in, and then lock the front door so they couldn't get out," said Donald D. Snyder, president and chief executive of the casino-financed partnership that manages the Fremont Street Experience. "The hotels agreed to a project that creates an environment and makes it comfortable for people to be outside.
"On top of that, they put a light show on every hour on the hour that potentially sucks people out of the casinos. That would never have happened a few years ago. That is where the industry has changed. The competition on the Strip has done that."
As hoped, the project's investment is slowly spurring a downtown revival. It is too early to know whether gambling revenues will increase over the long run, but the city estimates that downtown hotels have already committed $700 million in expansions.
For example, Fitzgerald's Casino and Hotel has announced plans for renovations, retail shopping and 600 new rooms. The Las Vegas Club Casino has broken ground on a 20-story tower and three new restaurants.
Meanwhile, Main Street Station's casino is scheduled to open in 1996 after being closed for four years. New retail tenants move in regularly, replacing T-shirt shops. And there is talk of building commercial office towers nearby. There are few downtown despite the city's distinction of having one of the fastest growing corporate real estate markets in the country.
"If you look at the Las Vegas Strip, you look at $6 or $7 billion in development," said Jan Laverty Jones, Mayor of Las Vegas. "But the dearth of spending over the years was downtown."
Redevelopment downtown comes at a critical time, because its competition, the Strip, is awash with bulldozers and construction workers building resorts, each one more grandiose than the next. At least four major hotel/casinos are scheduled to open on the Strip during the next two years, during which time the city's overall hotel room count will rise 15,000 to 105,000, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority.
The Stratosphere Corporation is building the tallest structure west of the Mississippi, called Stratosphere Tower, with an 1,149-foot tower with a revolving restaurant at the top and a 12-story hotel complex at the base. The $300 million project, which will have 1,500 rooms, is scheduled to open in April.
The Empire State Building, Chrysler Building and a pastiche of dozens of other New York landmarks make up the facade of New York, New York, a $350 million, 2,100-room hotel being built by MGM Grand and Primadonna Resorts. It is scheduled to open in December, and will be encircled with a "Coney Island Roller Coaster."
MIRAGE RESORTS INC., which already owns three Las Vegas hotels, the Mirage, Treasure Island, and Golden Nugget, just broke ground on Bellagio, a $900 million evocation of a romantic northern Italian city. The 46-story, 3,000-room hotel, geared to the luxury market, will open in about two years.
Mirage joined with Circus Circus Inc.'s development company, Golden Strike, to build the French Victorian-theme Monte Carlo. The 3,000-room hotel is to cost $325 million, and open late this year.
Both the Monte Carlo and Bellagio are located on the former 162-acre site of the Dunes Hotel -- one of the last large tracts of vacant land along the developed portion of the Strip -- which Mirage bought in 1991 for nearly $75 million, and then blew up.
"It is the fact that there is little empty land left," said Alan M. Feldman, spokesman for Mirage. "The next movement in Las Vegas is going to be tearing down existing buildings or renovating old ones."
It is already happening. Circus Circus bought the 40-acre Hacienda Hotel last summer for $80 million to, at a minimum, renovate. Its fate will be announced later this year.
Despite a flurry of hotel building, and resulting revenue, Mayor Laverty Jones is encouraging nongaming companies to relocate here. She believes the casino boom will eventually slow, especially if California chooses to expand its now limited gambling.
"If this community is going to continue to grow, it needs a diversified company base," Ms. Laverty Jones said. "We need higher paying jobs and more technical expertise."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bright lights form a nave over Fremont Street in downtown Las Vegas (left). Stratosphere Tower hotel complex on the Strip. (Photographs by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (94%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN GATE UNIVERSITY (52%); GATE CASINO&HOTEL (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: GATE CASINO&HOTEL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS (NEV); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); NEVADA, USA (94%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; LIGHTING; HOTELS AND MOTELS; CASINOS CASINOS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESORTS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); ORDINANCES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PANHANDLING (63%); 

PERSON: KOPYTOFF, VERNE G

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



714 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Cheaper by the Dozen: New Cars for Less Than $11,000

BYLINE: By PEGGY SPENCER CASTINE 

 BODY:
SMALL cars are bigger and better than ever. Many have larger dimensions and a broader choice of options. Even subcompacts have clever designs offering more interior space, or they pack more punch under the hood. And there is a longer list of nameplates from which to choose, from standbys like the Civic and Metro to newcomers like the Accent and Sephia.
Most significantly, all small cars are coming with bigger price tags. To a great extent, this is because Americans have developed such large expectations. No longer will mainstream buyers tolerate econoboxes that deliver high mileage but shudder in a breeze, or cute bugs with personality galore but faulty heaters. 
 We want our small cars to be substantial, with air-conditioning to boot. And how about power windows?
All that substance has a price, and it is usually in five figures. In May 1994, for example, this section included a list of 10 cars priced below $9,000, including three under $8,000. Today, only the Hyundai Accent sneaks in below $9,000.
One result is a booming used-car market. People shopping for second cars or commuter cars have often turned to midsize sedans that were returned after leases ran out, or to popularly equipped models that had done service in rental fleets.
Yet, when the average new car costs $20,000, there is considerable appeal to the idea of driving a pristine, potentially trouble-free model -- unscratched, undented and full of that new-car smell -- for around $10,000.
Some quite serviceable transportation is available for less than $11,000 (including the ubiquitous "destination charges," which are supposed to account for the cost of shipping a car from the factory). Of the 12 cars that cleared that barrier (the popular Chevrolet Cavalier just missed it), six were made in North America; three came from Japan and three are in the vanguard of a wave of vehicles from South Korea. Most handled well, had enough power to climb hills and offered acceptable if not spectacular styling. Some surprised with sporty handling. A couple would be winners in practically any class, and there's nary a Yugo in the bunch.
Here is what you can expect today for $11,000:
 
Dual air bags (in '94, only 2 of the 10 cheap cars had two bags, and 6 had none at all).
 
Reasonably comfortable though hardly cushy seating for an average-size driver and front passenger, plus a back seat that can accommodate at least two children
 
Enough cargo space to haul home groceries, handle a set of golf clubs or accommodate bags for a weekend.
 
Excellent fuel economy.
 
Handling that ranges from excellent to adequate (or at least as good as many sporty cars of decades past).
 
Fit and finish that are generally good, and sometimes superlative.
There is plenty of choice, too, for those willing to pay. But stripped-down models may be hard to find on dealers' lots, particularly if you insist on certain equipment and have your heart set on one color. Also, some manufacturers push you up-market if you want certain options, like anti-lock brakes, or force you to buy a package of goodies in order to get, say, air-conditioning.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: HYUNDAI ACCENT
 
Choices: 3-door hatchback (L, Ac cent and GT); Accent sedan
The cheapest: L hatchback, $8,700
Engine: 4 cyl., 1.5 liters, 92 h.p.
Mileage: 28 city/36 highway
Assembly site: Ulsan, South Korea
Incentives: $500 rebates on '96 Ac cents and '95 Accent 3-door; $750 rebate on '95 Accent 4-door (all re bates expire on Feb. 29)
 
The Accent, which replaced thelate and rarely lamented Excel last year, is a decent little car that has gained new respect for its Korean manufacturer. Not only is the Accent the lowest-priced car available, it is among the best deals, providing ade quate power, fairly good handling and a tolerably smooth ride. Note, however, that the base model is just that: no factory-installed options are available. And thanks to the Excel's woes, the resale value may be poor.
 
GEO METRO/SUZUKI SWIFT
 
Choices: Metro, 3-door hatchback and 4-door sedan (base and LSi); Swift, 3-door hatchback
The cheapest: Metro, 3-door hatch back, $9,010; Swift, $9,029 ('95 price)
Engines: Metro, 3 cyl., 1 liter, 55 h.p.; Swift and option on Metro, 4 cyl., 1.3 liters, 70 h.p.
Mileage: 3 cyl., 44 city/49 highway; 4 cyl, 39 city/43 highway
Assembly site: Ingersoll, Ontario
Incentives: $300 rebates on '95 and '96 Geos (rebates end Wednesday)
 
 A '95 redesign increased the size and price, but not the substance, of the Metro (above) and Swift. These are still small cars that seem to work best for intracity commuting or pizza delivering. Adding to the frail feeling is a hood that sweeps down and away from the cockpit, giving the driver a sense of floating in a bubble as 18-wheelers storm by.
 
FORD ASPIRE
 
Choices: 3-door and 5-door hatch backs
The cheapest: 3-door, $9,100
Engine: 4 cyl., 1.3 liters, 63 h.p.
Mileage: 36 city/43 highway
Assembly site: Seoul, South Korea
 
 This successor to the Festiva grabbed attention when it was intro duced in 1994 as one of the first small cars with dual air bags. With nearly all cars so equipped today, there's not a lot to distinguish the Aspire, which like the Festiva is made by Kia Motors. It does look sleeker than its boxy predecessor, although it feels more cramped inside. The Aspire is very much from the old school of small cars: it is certainly economical, but in space, power and amenities it falls behind fresher de signs like the Neon and Civic.
 
KIA SEPHIA
 
Choices: 4-door sedan (RS, LS and GS trim)
The cheapest: RS sedan, $9,910
Engine: 4 cyl., 1.8 liters, 122 h.p.
Mileage: 25 city/30 highway.
Assembly site: Seoul, South Korea
 
 Kia who? The Korean auto maker is gaining name recognition as it creeps across America, establishinga network of dealers and tweaking the Japanese with humorous com mercials. Kias are now available in the West, South and Southeast, and the company plans to have dealers nationwide by the end of 1997. The Sephia, a bread-and-butter sedan de signed primarily for the American market, enters 1996 with a much more powerful engine, a better sus pension and dual air bags. Kia also asserts that the Sephia has more leg and shoulder room, front and rear, than the Honda Civic.
 
DODGE/PLYMOUTH NEON
 
Choices: Coupe and sedan (base, Highline and Sport models)
The cheapest: Base coupe, $9,995.
Engines: 4 cyl., 2 liters, 132 h.p. (optional dual-cam, 2 liters, 150 h.p.)
Mileage: 27 city/33 highway.
Assembly sites: Belvidere, Ill.; Tolu ca, Mexico
Incentives: $500 rebates on '96 models and $750 rebates on '95 models (all expire on Feb. 29)
 
 When the Neon said "hi" in early 1994, it raised expectations of what a small car could be. Chrysler squelched the idea of a basic hatch back in favor of a cab-forward de sign with a spacious, airy interior. It added a huge (for this class) engine and made a lot of swell options avail able. Although the Neon can be noisy (avoid the optional roof rack), and its reliability record is mixed, it does not want for power or personality.
 
FORD ESCORT
 
Choices: 3-door hatchback (base, LX and GT); LX sedan; 5-door LX hatchback; LX wagon
The cheapest: Hatchback, $10,455.
Engine: 4 cyl., 1.9 liters, 88 h.p. (optional 4 cyl., 1.8 liters, 127 h.p.)
Mileage: 25 city/35 highway.
Assembly sites: Wayne, Mich.; Her mosillo, Mexico
Incentives: '95 models, $600 re bates (no expiration date); '96 mod els, $600 rebates or 4.8 percent, 48- month financing (April 2 expiration).
 
 Despite its age -- the current Maz da-based design dates to 1991 -- the Escort is still America's most popu lar small car. A new version arrives for '97, and Ford promises to hold the line on prices. For '96, only the plainest hatchback has a sticker un der $11,000, but with the Escort look ing stale against new competition, dealers may be eager to deal.
 
EAGLE SUMMIT/MITSUBISHI
MIRAGE
 
Choices: Summit coupe (DL and ESi); sedan (LX and ESi); 3-door wagon (DL, LX and AWD); Mirage coupe (S and LS)
The cheapest: Summit DL coupe, $10,625; Mirage S coupe, $10,860
Engine: 4 cyl., 1.5 liters, 92 h.p. (Summit option and Mirage LS, 4 cyl., 1.8 liters, 113 h.p.)
Mileage: 26 city/33 highway
Assembly: Mizushima, Japan (Sum mit); Korashiki, Japan (Mirage)
 
 Mitsubishi builds both the Summit (above), sold through Chrysler's Jeep/Eagle dealers, and the Mirage, which is now available to nonfleet buyers only as a coupe. The cars' swoopy styling stands out in this dowdy field, interior room is better than you might expect and the cli mate controls are commendably ef ficient. Still, the brakes are weak and no anti-lock system is available.
 
HONDA CIVIC
 
Choices: 3-door hatchback (CX and DX); coupe (DX, HX and EX); se dan (DX, LX and EX)
The cheapest: CX hatchback, $10,745
Engines: 4 cyl., 1.6 liters, 106 h.p. (standard on HX coupe, 4 cyl., 1.6 liters, 115 h.p.; standard on EX, 4- cyl. VTEC, 1.6 liters, 127 h.p.)
Mileage: 33 city/38 highway
Assembly site: East Liberty, Ohio
 
 Stong demand and a sterling repu tation have pushed Honda's prices up over the years, and dealers de light in selling Civics with window stickers bloated by thousands of dol lars in frills. Still, the bare-bones hatchback offers good value; expect to pay considerably more for a sedan or coupe. All new this year, the Civic is as comfortable and well-engi neered as ever, and its reliability record and resale value are still hard to beat.
 
TOYOTA TERCEL
 
Choices: Coupe (base and DX); se dan (DX)
The cheapest: Base coupe, $10,768
Engine: 4 cyl., 1.5 liters, 93 h.p.
Mileage: 30 city/39 highway
Assembly site: Toyota City, Japan
 
 Americans have long been willing to pay more for the quality and reli ability of Toyota's small cars, but the Tercel, which was redesigned for '95, may test their limits. The most basic Tercel -- a two-door with a four-speed manual transmission (its rivals have five speeds) -- just bare ly makes it under the $11,000 mark. And this car is basic, lacking a clock, a trip odometer and a right-side mir ror. Step up to a nicer model, or add a few options, and the sticker doesn't just shock, it terrifies. Still, the Ter cel handles more like a sporty coupe than a loss leader, and even the cheapest Toyota is built like a rock.
 
SATURN
 
Choices: 4-door sedan (SL, SL1 and SL2), wagon (SW1 and SW2) and coupe (SC1 and SC2)
The cheapest: SL sedan, $10,885
Engine: 4 cyl., 1.9 liters, 100 h.p. (SL, SL1, SW1, SC1); dual-cam 4 cyl., 1.9 liters, 124 h.p. (SL2, SW2, SC2)
Mileage: 29/40
Assembly site: Spring Hill, Tenn.
 
 Saturn's sedans were redesigned and repriced for '96, but the plainest model still squeaks in below $11,000. The new Saturns look a little sleeker, handle a little more tightly and sup press noise a bit better than the originals, but they are still not on the cutting edge of technology. Their best feature continues to be the G.M. division's buyer-friendly marketing. Don't visit the local Saturn store with an intent to dicker: the sticker price really is the price.
 
Graph: "Plain Vanilla, or With a Few Sprinkles" lists the nations 12 least expensive cars, and their suggested prices when equipped with automatic transmission, power steering, air-conditioning, anti-lock brakes and AM/FM radio with cassette player. All prices include destination charges.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (86%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REVIEWS MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (73%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); GOLF (50%); 

PERSON: CASTINE, PEGGY SPENCER

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



715 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2836 words

HEADLINE: When Charity Runs Out

BYLINE: By DAVID CORCORAN 

DATELINE: PATERSON

 BODY:
WHEN 1995 started, Carlos Torres had a $22,000-a-year job as a supervisor at an auto parts factory in Essex County. When it ended, he was a charity patient at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center here, still a little dazed by his run of bad luck.
First the plant closed. Then his unemployment insurance ran out. Then last fall, just after he'd finally lined up a new job, he fell on a street in Paterson and shattered his right arm. It still hasn't healed properly. 
 Mr. Torres's care -- from the emergency room to the operating room to the recovery room to St. Joseph's orthopedic clinic to physical therapy and back to the operating room (for a bone graft) -- has cost the hospital thousands of dollars. Thirty-one years old, unemployed and single, he has no health insurance and hasn't been disabled long enough to qualify for Medicaid. So the hospital has only one way of recovering some of those costs, for him and thousands of other patients who have no public or private health insurance: New Jersey's $300-million-a-year program to reimburse hospitals for charity care.
Now, because of a bitter partisan dispute in Trenton over how to finance it, the charity program is in danger. St. Joseph's and 80 other hospitals, large and small, got their last checks from the charity care fund on Jan. 15, and unless the Legislature can agree on how to renew it, there will be no checks on Feb. 15. So hospital administrators like Sister Jane Frances Brady, who runs St. Joseph's, are scrambling -- not only to persuade the lawmakers to restore the fund but also to figure out how to get along if it is not restored.
"This is a historic moment," said Sister Jane, who has run St. Joseph's since 1972. "We've never come to the place where our cupboard is literally bare. We're really up against it. And what we're going to have to do is cut the sail to fit the cloth" -- perhaps, she suggested, by suspending non-emergency services for some charity patients.
The state charity payments make up about 7 percent of St. Joseph's $265 million budget, so their absence will start biting soon. The hospital will have no choice but to cut services or pay for charity care from other accounts. But even if the financing crisis is resolved (and there is widespread expectation in Trenton that it will be, though no one can say when), a much larger problem is looming over St. Joseph's and other urban hospitals, like Jersey City Medical Center, University and United and Beth Israel Hospitals in Newark, East Orange General and Elizabeth General.
Although the Federal budget impasse makes any talk of specific numbers meaningless, it is clear that Congress and the Clinton Administration are planning hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of cuts over the next seven years in Medicare and Medicaid, the two gigantic programs that pay for care to the aged, poor and disabled.
The Medicaid money may well be distributed to the states in block grants, and Republican lawmakers say the states can allocate it more efficiently than Washington can. But it will still be far less than the urban hospitals have learned to count on, forcing them into what administrators call a vicious circle.
"If New Jersey under block grants gets $14 billion less in Federal subsidies over seven years than it would have received, what does it do?" asked Gary Carter, president of the New Jersey Hospital Association, a trade group that represents most of the state's hospitals. "Does the state come up with that much money? Not likely; you'll have to begin cutting services as well. Not only will the state pay less to insurance companies, who will cut what they pay to hospitals, but the hospitals will also be seeing more people who aren't covered, which means more charity care."
Every hospital in the state is required to treat anybody who needs care, regardless of ability to pay. In an era of managed care, when private as well as public insurers are trying to hold costs down, the requirement places burdens on every hospital, urban or not. But for urban hospitals like St. Joseph's, which got 63 percent of its revenue last year from government sources, the state and Federal cuts will force a painful reassessment of their mission.
"Urban hospitals have few cost areas that can be cut any more than they have been cut," said Jim Knickman, a vice president of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in Princeton, which finances research into health care. "Even if they take care of few charity patients, it will be difficult for them to cut operating costs, many of which are fixed. The real prospect is one of potential hospital closures."
 
THE HOSPITAL
From Cows to Clinics
St. Joseph's Hospital had 12 beds when it opened in 1867, in a small frame house in the fields of South Paterson. The Sisters of Charity of St. Elizabeth, who still run it today, cared for cows as well as patients.
Now the hospital anchors a whole neighborhood, not to mention its city's economy. It has 651 beds, making it the state's fourth-largest hospital. With more than 3,000 workers, it is the largest employer in Paterson, a city long since deserted by the brawny textile mills that grew up around the Great Falls of the Passaic River.
It admits 26,000 patients a year, and the emergency room sees more than 50,000. The main campus sprawls over a large city block -- a maze of wings and towers in an architecture critic's nightmare of clashing styles from different eras -- and the hospital has outposts throughout Paterson and in half a dozen other communities. It has become a vast regional supermarket of care for its mostly poor, mostly black and Hispanic community.
Where St. Joseph's starts, for many, is in the emergency room, which was already packed at 11:30 on an otherwise quiet morning last week. Its 21 beds were filled, and half a dozen patients waited on gurneys in the aisles -- people with chest pains, asthma, possible broken bones from car accidents and falls in the snow.
"You can be relatively quiet, and then you can get overwhelmed," said Dr. James N. Pruden, St. Joseph's chief of emergency services. "In 1990 we had 40,000 patients; last year it was 51,600. There's just a lack of availability of other resources in the community. There's an increasing incidence of asthma, and AIDS.
"And this is the only place that's open 24 hours a day, seven days a week. As private practitioners become less and less available, become more and more focused on a fixed, 9-to-5 mind-set, then we're the only place people can turn to. When they come, we don't even know if they have insurance or not. If this hospital can't take care of them, who can?"
St. Joseph's would rather see non-emergency patients in its 27 specialized clinics, where the care is less intensive, and therefore less expensive. Every weekday morning, the hall of its ambulatory care wing and the waiting room of its Family Health Center fill with clusters of people in wheelchairs and on crutches, mothers with strollers, pregnant teen-agers. They are awaiting X-rays, gynecological exams, pregnancy counseling, eye care, foot care, skin care . . . the whole array of services that people in a wealthier community might be likely to seek from a private specialist.
Many are charity patients: people like Carlos Torres, the unemployed man with the shattered arm, and Carolyn Jackson, a 47-year-old former teacher's aide with painfully inflamed joints who is still waiting to qualify for Social Security disability insurance -- her ticket to Medicaid.
For now, the hospital does not much care whether they have insurance or not. The point is that if they can be treated while they are still relatively healthy, they are less likely to need expensive acute care later on. "If there were no clinics," said Kathleen M. Hay, St. Joseph's director of ambulatory care nursing, "emergency rooms in the cities would just be bombarded with patients. We'd be back to the bad old days of the 70's, when there were 24-hour waits."
But with all their nonpaying patients, the clinics are hardly profit centers. The question is how many of them will survive, and in what form, if the urban hospitals begin losing the funds that sustain them.
 
THE ADMINISTRATOR
Daughter of a Revolution
Sister Jane Frances Brady wears a business suit, not a habit. But she lives at the convent across the street from the hospital and begins the day with Mass ("where I pray for the strength to get to the end of it") at 6:30 every morning.
 She is not the type to raise her voice. She is an accountant as well as a nun, with an M.B.A. from Seton Hall and a master's in hospital administration from Columbia, and associates say her strong points are her mastery of detail and her steely persistence.
Those same qualities can also make her come across as something of a control freak; she speaks of "my hospital" and "my emergency room" and even "my tuberculosis patients," and when hospital people mention "Sister," there is no question which sister they mean. But she is not overly severe. It helps to know that she never misses an episode of "E.R.," and that she likes to travel to third world countries with volunteer medical teams, so she can lay hands on real patients.
"It's a busman's holiday," she said in an interview last week. "The people are desperately poor, but you have direct contact with them. You don't have to worry about bureaucracy; you can hold patients, carry them out of the operating room. Here, you're constantly going to meetings and plowing through paperwork."
Sixty years old and tall, with a young, open face, she has been at St. Joseph's nearly half her life. She grew up in White Plains, where her father was an engineer for the New York State Thruway Authority and her mother was a special-education teacher in the New York City schools; she became a nun after graduating (summa cum laude) from the College of St. Elizabeth in Convent Station, which is run by the Sisters of Charity. It was clear to her, after college, that she wanted to use her gift for administration in the order's mission of charity; she started at St. Joseph's in 1966, just about the time Medicare and Medicaid were revolutionizing the way hospitals did business.
"When I came, we were like a community hospital," she said. "I was given a tour on my first day here, and it took from breakfast to shortly before dinner. Now it would take you two weeks."
 By paying for patients who in the old days would have been charity cases or wards of local government, the two huge Federal programs gave urban hospitals a dependable financial base, allowing aggressive ones like St. Joseph's to follow their mission and expand their services to meet the needs of the broad, secular community.
Many, including St. Joseph's, also saw the opportunity to develop profit-making services -- a sports medicine clinic, a regional cardiac center -- to make their finances even more secure. And although some lawmakers would like to see the urban hospitals narrow their focus and concentrate on their central mission of care for inner-city residents, Sister Jane says there is no going back to the old days.
"We're a $260-million-a-year business," she said. "You have to have profit centers. As much as we have a mission to the poor, we have many obligations now. I'm the biggest employer in Paterson. I can't expect my vendors to give me stuff and not pay them."
She was asked whether the government and private insurers didn't have an obligation to make sure that hospitals were spending their money efficiently. It was the closest she came during the interview to raising her voice.
"Absolutely," she replied. "But 'inner-city hospitals aren't efficient'? That's a red herring that's thrown up all the time, by people who don't understand the situation. They'd be stunned if they stayed here overnight. Stunned! They'd see the tuberculosis patients, the AIDS patients, the 13-year-old mothers who don't have a clue how to take care of babies.
"These are real people with real names and real faces. They're not made up."
 
THE OUTLOOK
Scrambling for Solutions
The stalemate in Trenton over the charity care fund reminds people on both sides of the budget impasse in Washington: though everybody agrees that some way needs to be found to keep the payments going, the two sides are locked in a bitter standoff over where the money is to come from.
For three years, the state paid for charity care by tapping a huge surplus in its unemployment insurance fund, which boomed in the 1980's with the surging economy. But as joblessness grew in the 90's, the surplus shrank, and business and labor groups demanded that the Legislature find another source of money. Authority to use the unemployment fund ran out on Dec. 31.
At first Governor Whitman proposed a 25-cent increase in the cigarette tax ("users' fee," as she put it, since smokers are more likely to need hospital care). But neither party would vote for a tax unless the other one did; Democrats were particularly infuriated by Republican assertions that they owed it to "their" urban constituents to find a way to pay for charity care.
Last week, as the hospitals and their advocates began warning of cuts in services, lawmakers began launching volleys of competing alternatives -- from prosaic (tapping the unemployment fund again) to partisan (drawing the money from the general Treasury, a move Democrats would love since it would almost certainly force the Governor to take back part of her 30 percent income tax cut) to exotic (a new statewide video lottery).
For her part, Mrs. Whitman seemed to wash her hands of the issue, saying the Legislature had rejected her solution and would have to find its own. But she may have more to say in her annual budget message tomorrow.
"We'll be confronting a crisis if we don't find a solution," said her Health Commissioner, Len Fishman, who is especially concerned about the charity fund because it also pays for a program that offers low-cost health insurance to people without it -- particularly working families with children.
"Urban hospitals are critical," he went on, "not only because they serve large numbers of people who are uninsured but also because they're where tertiary services" -- advanced, expensive specialties like cardiac and cancer care -- "are located. We don't have an extensive public hospital system in this state, and that's a good thing, because the poor get better care in hospitals where most patients are insured. To maintain that kind of system, we have to make sure charity care continues."
As for the deep reductions lurking down the road, in Medicaid and Medicare, Mr. Fishman says he is optimistic that urban hospitals can adapt. "I trust that hospitals in this state will be able to meet that challenge, and find ways to deliver services more efficiently," he said.
In Paterson, Sister Jane Frances Brady is not so optimistic.
"Everything is so tight," she said, raising her voice just a little. "The managed-care payers are crushing, crushing, crushing the price of care, always asking us to do more with less.
"In the old days we could shift the cost of caring for the poor to the private payer; we can't do that anymore. Everybody only wants to pay for their own patients."
 
CASE STUDIES
 
Diagnosis: Stroke. Insurance: None.
In New Jersey, hospitals are required to care for anyone who needs treatment, regardless of ability to pay. Hundreds of thousands of New Jerseyans have no health insurance, often because they have jobs but cannot afford private insurance or because they are single, which generally makes them ineligible for Medicaid.
Last year 125,000 such patients were treated in New Jersey hospitals. Asked for a sampling of the kinds of people who qualify, St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Paterson offered these four case studies, all from 1995.
 
BOY, 1
 
HOME Paterson
RACE Hispanic
FINANCIAL STATUS Ineligible for public assistance: household income $37,446 for a family of six.
DIAGNOSIS Croup
LENGTH OF STAY 2 days
HOSPITAL CHARGES $2,064
STATE PAYMENT $2,189
 
WOMAN, 40
 
HOME Paterson
RACE Black
MARITAL STATUS Single
OCCUPATION Unemployed
FINANCIAL STATUS In the city welfare program.
DIAGNOSIS Psychosis
LENGTH OF STAY 5 days
HOSPITAL CHARGES $10,680
STATE PAYMENT $6,943
 
MAN, 64
 
HOME Clifton
RACE Hispanic resident alien
MARITAL STATUS Married
OCCUPATION Unemployed
FINANCIAL STATUS This patient is supported by his daughter, receiving only room and board.
DIAGNOSIS Mitral stenosis (blockage in a heart valve)
LENGTH OF STAY 62 days
HOSPITAL CHARGES $77,014
STATE PAYMENT $70,609
 
WOMAN, 58
 
HOME Paterson
RACE Black
MARITAL STATUS Single
OCCUPATION Unemployed
FINANCIAL STATUS The patient gets $140 a month from the city welfare program but does not qualify for Medicaid.
DIAGNOSIS Cerebral arterial occlusion (stroke)
LENGTH OF STAY 145 days
HOSPITAL CHARGES $126,696
STATE PAYMENT $105,833

GRAPHIC: Photos: St. Joseph's Hospital says that if it loses state funds, the poor will go without care, get sicker, and wind up in its crowded emergency room, where they cannot be turned away. (pg. 1); St. Joseph's 27 specialized clinics treat a range of non-emergency cases, often for people with no insurance. A man waited for an appointment at the eye clinic.; "Our cupboard is literally bare," said Sister Jane Frances Brady, administrator of St. Joseph's. "We're really up against it." (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) (pg. 8)
 
Graph: "Where the Money Comes From" shows sources of revenue for St. Joseph's Hospital in 1995, and for all New Jersey hospital in 1994. (Source: St. Joseph's Hospital; New Jersey Hospital Association) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ST JOSEPH'S HOSPITAL (93%); MEDICAID (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HOSPITALS; FINANCES; MEDICAID; FEDERAL AID (US) HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CHARITIES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (77%); ORTHOPEDICS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (74%); BUDGETS (74%); 

PERSON: CORCORAN, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



716 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 2; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Hostile Environment

BYLINE: By Mark Dowie; Mark Dowie's latest book is "Losing Ground: American Environmentalism at the Close of the 20th Century."

 BODY:

THE LAST STAND
 The War Between Wall Street
 and Main Street Over
 California's Ancient Redwoods.
 By David Harris.
 373 pp. New York:
 Times Books/Random House. $25.
There are few places where the battle between cowboy capitalism and wilderness preservation has been fought with such ferocity as Scotia, a quaint lumber-mill town on a wide bend of the Eel River in northern California. Deep in the heart of America's ancient redwood forests, Scotia has been transformed over the past decade from a genial company village where everybody knows everybody and nobody locks the front door to a community riven with animosity and fear. It all began in 1985 when a smooth-talking corporate raider from Houston decided to buy all the shares of Scotia's only employer, the Pacific Lumber Company, a prosperous but undervalued family business whose bylaws stipulated that the welfare of the area where it operated had to be on an equal footing with the financial rewards to shareholders. 
 In "The Last Stand," David Harris spins a fast-paced and colorful yarn of Scotia's concurrent introductions to Wall Street greed and radical environmentalism. Mr. Harris recounts a descent into modernity that began the day Charles Hurwitz, the chairman of the Maxxam Group, began to accumulate the common stock of the lumber company, run for three generations by the Murphy clan, a family committed to sustainable-yield forestry and perpetual community.
Neither of those values was of particular interest to Mr. Hurwitz. But, saddled with junk bond debt and anxious to get on with his next takeover, he promised the Murphys, their employees and the people of Scotia that he would respect and preserve their traditions.
Before long, any members of the Murphy family remaining in the company were removed from office and orders were given to double the harvest of old-growth redwood. Enraged local environmentalists went to court to protect stands of ancient forest that provide habitat for animal species long ago endangered by logging in the Pacific Northwest. As the lumber company's new management was reassuring its workers that nothing had changed, the company pension plan was quietly being transferred to a Los Angeles insurance company no one had heard of, and in the process $50 million was stripped out to pay the first installment of junk bonds that had been underwritten for the takeover. (The insurance company was Executive Life; the underwriter was Michael Milken.) A lawsuit brought against Maxxam by the Murphys and their supporters in their former family business was laughed off by a Reagan-appointed Federal judge.
After Executive Life failed, the fact became public that the insurance company had got that pension contract after buying a large block of Maxxam bonds from Mr. Milken. And a Congressional hearing on insider trading and leveraged buyouts later disclosed that during the stealth phase of the takeover, Boyd Jeffries, the Los Angeles superbroker, had parked Pacific Lumber Company shares with Ivan Boesky so that Mr. Hurwitz would not have to report to the Securities and Exchange Commission that he owned more than 5 percent of the stock and so reveal himself as a raider.
Through the personal experiences of ordinary people affected by the takeover, Mr. Harris describes the painful transition of a town and its company from enlightened to unenlightened capitalism. The response of Bill Bertain, a Scotia lawyer whose family owns the local laundromat, is particularly poignant. Irate over the way trees and people were treated by the lumber company's new owner, Mr. Bertain, who had never handled anything larger than a divorce, went head to head with Maxxam in the Federal courts and brought the Hurwitz-Milken conspiracy to the attention of Congress. If there is a hero in this book, it's Mr. Bertain.
Mr. Harris's tale comes alive in his reporting on the environmental community's response. As chain saws whine through some of the last redwood groves in America, back-to-the-land monkey-wrenchers and Wobblies conspire to stop the cuts by blocking roads, sitting in trees and "spiking" redwoods with long metal shrouds that destroy mill saws (and turn into fragmentation bombs if a saw blade hits the spike at the right angle). Mr. Harris takes us into the homes and psyches of Greg King, Darryl Cherney and Judi Bari, the courageous but often foolish eco-warriors of Redwood Summer, Earth First's last stand against Maxxam and the lumber company. Earth First retreats after Mr. Cherney and Ms. Bari are car-bombed (Ms. Bari was badly injured) in Oakland, Calif., a crime that remained unsolved as "The Last Stand" went to press.
Mr. Harris quite reliably weaves a good parable. But unlike his earlier nonfiction books "Dreams Die Hard" and "The League," this one -- on a topic that cries out for the kind of reflection that someone like Mr. Harris, who cut his teeth on the campus activism of the 60's, could provide -- is long on narrative and short on analysis. In his attempt to live and speak through the world of his characters, Mr. Harris sadly loses his own voice. (He also has an irritating habit of switching first and last names in the same paragraph, so that in one sentence we are with "Charles," in the next with "Hurwitz.") His grammatical license and overwrought similes are at times distracting, and it is hard to believe that the working-class mouths of Humbolt County are quite as foul as he portrays them. But these last are small weaknesses. "The Last Stand" remains an essential read for anyone curious about the innards of a hostile takeover, the Realpolitik of resource economics or the psychodynamics of radical environmentalism.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: LAST STAND, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: MXM (AMEX) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (85%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (85%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (85%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (85%); SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (85%); NAICS113310 LOGGING (69%); SIC2411 LOGGING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MAXXAM INC (85%); HUMBOLDT REDWOOD CO LLC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; REDWOOD TREES BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); BONDS (89%); FAMILY (88%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); COMMON STOCK (74%); LITERATURE (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); WILDERNESS (72%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (72%); SAW MILLS (71%); INSIDER TRADING (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); LITIGATION (62%); JUDGES (62%); ANIMALS (50%); 

PERSON: DOWIE, MARK; HARRIS, DAVID MICHAEL MILKEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



717 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: WHAT IMMIGRATION CRISIS?

 BODY:
By casting the debate on illegal immigration as one about values, Rayner ignored the fundamental complaint many Americans have on this topic. After a lifetime of employment, and the subsequent financing of numerous social programs via taxes on our incomes, we now question who really benefits. 
 Rayner's solution of providing "Federal assistance to heavily impacted areas such as Los Angeles" is the most disturbing aspect of his article. While economic expectations for most "native" Americans have been diminished, government assistance for those who are not citizens seems unlimited.
 
JEFFREY BATES
Kirkland, Wash.

GRAPHIC: Photo: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH RODGRIGUEZ/BLACK STAR)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); REFUGEES (86%); 

PERSON: RAYNER, RICHARD JEFFREY BATES KIRKLAND (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



718 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 6; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Residential Resales

 BODY:
In the following reports, the "listed at" price is the asking price when negotiations began that ended in the sale. Time on market is from most recent listing to contract.
 
MANHATTAN
 
BATTERY PARK CITY $320,000
380 Rector Place
(Liberty Terrace)
2-bedroom, 1-bath, 873-sq.-ft. condo in an 8-year-old building; 24-hr. concierge, terrace, Hudson River view; common charge $606, taxes $4,621, listed at $345,000, 4 weeks on market (Broker: Innovation Group of N.Y.)
 
FORT WASHINGTON $136,000
120 Cabrini Boulevard
(Castle Village)
2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,200-sq.-ft. co-op in a prewar building; part-time doorman, dining room, roof deck, 7 acres of common grounds, Hudson River view; maintenance $953, includes gas and electricity, 41% tax-deductible, listed at $149,000, 3 years on market (Broker: Simone Song Properties)
 
HAMILTON HEIGHTS $400,000
416 Convent Avenue
5-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 100-year-old restored brownstone; dining room, 6 fireplaces, stained-glass windows, wine cellar, original moldings and detail; taxes $1,200, listed at $435,000, 16 weeks on market (Broker: Willie Kathryne Suggs)
 
UPPER EAST SIDE $525,000
455 East 86th Street
(Channel Club)
3-bedroom, 3-bath, 1,500-sq.-ft. condo in a 9-year-old building; 24-hr. doormen, concierge, marble baths, 2 balconies, pool and health club; common charge $1,105; taxes $5,390, listed at $595,000, 12 weeks on market (Brokers: Corcoran Group; Bette Bregnan)
 
 
BRONX
 
CITY ISLAND $130,000
289 Fordham Place
2-bedroom, 1-bath, 135-year-old detached house; dining room, eat-in kitchen, minibarn; taxes $800, listed at $125,000, 8 weeks on market (Broker: Jacqueline Kyle Kall)
 
RIVERDALE $220,000
260 West 256th Street
2-family, 34-year-old semi-attached brick house; 3 bedrooms, 1 1/2 baths, dining room in primary duplex; 1 bedroom, 1 bath, dining area in simplex; 1-car garage; taxes $2,500, listed at $249,000, 26 weeks on market (Broker: Trebach)
 
 
BROOKLYN
 
DITMAS PARK $262,500
1316 Ditmas Avenue
7-bedroom, 4-bath, 75-year-old detached frame Victorian; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, front and rear porches, finished basement, 2-car garage, 40- by 100-ft. lot; taxes $1,200, listed at $285,000, 8 weeks on market (Broker: Jacob Gold Realty)
 
KENSINGTON $118,000
50 Turner Place
2-family, 75-year-old attached brick house; 2 bedrooms, 1 bath, eat-in kitchens in each unit; finished basement; taxes $890, listed at $150,000, 42 weeks on market (Broker: Mary Kay Gallagher)
 
PARK SLOPE $217,000
100 Sterling Place
3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 1,300-sq.-ft condo in a 10-year-old building; elevator, dining area, c/a, 2 terraces, parking space; common charge $385, taxes $575, listed at $235,000, 2 weeks on market (Broker: Heights-Berkeley)
 
 
QUEENS
 
FOREST HILLS $344,000
72-23 Ingram Street
5-bedroom, 3-bath, 60-year-old detached stucco-sided house; dining room, eat-in kitchen, finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $2,161, listed at $450,000, 12 weeks on market (Brokers: F.H. Realty Executives; Fortuna)
 
 
STATEN ISLAND
 
CONCORD $110,000
325 Oder Avenue
3-bedroom, 1 full and 1 half-bath, 8-year-old brick and cedar-sided house; dining area, eat-in kitchen, family room, 1-car garage; taxes $1,250, listed at $119,900, 43 weeks on market (Broker: Salmon)
 
TODT HILL $950,000
74 Buttonwood Road
6-bedroom, 4 full and 2 half-bath, 65-year-old center-hall colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, breakfast room, library, 1.5 acres; taxes $9,008, listed at $1.277 million, 3 weeks on market (Broker: Vitali-Sunshine)
 
 
LONG ISLAND
 
GLEN HEAD $285,000
14 Walnut Street
4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 100-year-old Victorian; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, attic, basement, fireplace; taxes $2,400, listed at $310,000, 6 weeks on market (Brokers: Douglas Elliman-Jane Hayes; Brookhollow Properties)
 
GREAT NECK $525,000
12 Old Colony Road
4-bedroom, 3-bath, 58-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, basement, 2-car garage, 95- by 195-foot lot; taxes $9,800, listed at $550,000, 4 weeks on market (Brokers: Great Neck Realty, Better Homes & Gardens)
 
KINGS POINT $1.16 million
121 Station Road
6-bedroom, 4 1/2-bath, 72-year-old French Normandy; family room, library, media room, new eat-in kitchen, 2-car garage, slate roof, pool, 2.1 acres; taxes $22,500, listed at $1.45 million, 35 weeks on market (Broker: June Shapiro)
 
MILLER PLACE $175,000
4 High Hollow Road
3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 22-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, basement, hardwood floors, new roof; taxes $5,400, listed at $189,000, 23 weeks on market (Broker: ERA Manzoni)
 
 
CONNECTICUT
 
COS COB $340,000
32 Fado Lane
3-bedroom, 2-bath, 30-year-old raised-ranch; family room, remodeled kitchen, greenhouse, 1-car garage, .27 acre on cul-de-sac; taxes $3,229, listed at $345,000, 31 weeks on market (Brokers: Coldwell Banker/ Schlott; Country Living)
 
FAIRFIELD $360,000
2100 North Benson Street
4-bedroom, 2 full- and 1 half-bath, 9-year-old colonial; c/a, 2 walk-in closets, finished basement, large deck, 2-car garage, .24 acre; taxes $5,136, listed at $379,000, 13 weeks on market (Broker: William Pitt)
 
GREENWICH $1.5 million
876 North Street
5-bedroom, 5 1/2-bath, 21-year-old contemporary colonial; family room, den, library, flagstone terrace, heated pool with spa, 2-car garage, 5.1 acres; taxes $15,583, listed at $1.599 million, 12 weeks on market (Broker: Coldwell Banker/Schlott)
 
WESTPORT $639,000
10 Cardinal Lane
4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 31-year-old colonial; new kitchen and baths, pool and gazebo, 4-car garage, 2 acres on cul-de-sac; taxes $5,528, listed at $659,000, 8 weeks on market (Brokers: William Pitt; Prudential)
 
 
WESTCHESTER
 
CHAPPAQUA $255,000
38 Ridgewood Terrace
3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 85-year-old Victorian; wraparound front porch, gazebo, deck, family room; taxes $5,800, listed at $265,000, 12 weeks on market (Brokers: Houlihan/Lawrence; Century 21 Haviland)
 
PLEASANTVILLE $298,000
20 Roselle Avenue
4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 80-year-old colonial; eat-in kitchen, finished basement, 2-car garage, 0.25 acre; taxes $6,470, listed at $315,000, 10 weeks on market (Brokers: Holmes & Kennedy; Coldwell Banker)
 
POUND RIDGE $353,000
28 Peter's Lane
4-bedroom, 3-bath, 30-year-old contemporary; entry hall, dining room, eat-in kitchen, master suite, 2.1 acres; taxes $7,748, listed at $369,000, 1 year, 4 months on market (Brokers: Houlihan/Lawrence; McGrath Associates)
 
WHITE PLAINS $260,000
5 Locust Avenue
3-bedroom, 1-bath, 63-year-old colonial; flagstone patio, 2 fireplaces, 1-car garage, attic; taxes $3,200, listed at $269,000, 9 weeks on market (Broker: Century 21 Wolff)
 
 
NEW JERSEY
 
CAPE MAY COURT HOUSE $135,000
1 New River Road
3-bedroom, 2-bath new ranch; eat-in-kitchen, front porch, rear deck, 2-car garage; taxes $2,900, listed at $159,900, 11 months on market (Broker: DeMusz)
 
HOPEWELL $340,000
48 Valley Road
4-bedroom, 3-bath, 5-year-old colonial; 2-car garage, eat-in-kitchen, screened porch, c/a, 9 acres; taxes $7,100, listed at $424,875, 10 weeks on market (Broker: Richard A. Weidel)
 
MAYWOOD $185,000
310 Byron Place
3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 43-year-old Cape Cod; 1-car garage, full basement, fireplace, screened porch; taxes $4,619, listed at $209,000, 16 weeks on market (Brokers: Prudential Higgins; Pleasant)
 
POINT PLEASANT $109,000
2206 Foster Road
2-bedroom, 1-bath, 30-year-old ranch; h/w floors, porch, 1-car garage; taxes $1,185, listed at $112,900, 12 weeks on market (Broker: Weichert)

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Data Update" shows mortgage rates in the region and tracks number of housing starts, completions, and sales, at seasonally adjusted annual figures from the end of 1992 through November 1995. (Sources: HSH Associates [mortgage rates]; Census Bureau [housing trends])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GREAT NECK REALTY (60%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CITIES (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



719 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Housing Within Reach of Southampton Locals

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
MANY young families who live and work in the Town of Southampton find it difficult, if not impossible, to compete in the housing market with more affluent purchasers who are looking for vacation houses.
But in one 40-unit single-family-house project to be built in the Riverside section of the town, state grants will allow income-eligible buyers to purchase three-bedroom, 1,489-square-foot colonials on half-acre lots for $83,990. Purchasers must either not have owned a house for three years or be first-time buyers. 
 The project, called Brookside Estates, is being sponsored by the Long Island Housing Partnership. The developer and builder is the Park Ridge Organization of Ronkonkoma.
Vincent Cannuscio, the newly elected Town Supervisor of Southampton, said the development would provide badly needed housing that local families can afford. "The area is so desirable as a second-home community that sellers tend to get inflated prices for houses," he said.
Brookside Estates is one of several on Long Island benefiting from a state grant program administered by the New York State Affordable Housing Corporation, a subsidiary of the Housing Finance Agency. Under the program, developers receive a $25,000 grant for each unit to help reduce their cost to buyers who otherwise would be shut out of the housing market.
Since its inception in 1985, the state program, which also provides grants for the rehabilitation of existing housing, has helped create 12,000 new housing units statewide, and has helped rehabilitate 11,000 units.
Over the 11 years, Nassau has received $2.19 million in grants for 112 new housing units, of which 70 are completed and 10 are under construction, with the balance not yet started. Suffolk has received $26.138 million in grants for 1,402 units, of which 1,253 are completed and 66 are under construction.
For every dollar the state spends, the private sector invests $4 to $5, so that the $300 million in grants that have so far been provided under the program have generated more than $1 billion in private investment in repairs and new construction, said Joseph Mendez, acting director of the Affordable Housing Corporation.
Projects either are developed by local nonprofit groups who hire builders to act as their general contractors, or are sponsored by a group that works in partnership with a developer. The developer must agree to limit profits to 10 percent of cost.
For some of the families purchasing at Brookside Estates, even the state grant will not be enough to bring costs to a level they can afford, said Joseph Sanseverino, director of the Suffolk County Community Development Agency.
His agency therefore has allocated $275,000 in Federal grants under the Federal Home Program for 11 of the 40 houses, allowing each of those homes to be purchased for $58,990. The Home Program, created under the National Affordable Housing Act of 1990, can be used for both new construction and rehabilitation of existing dwellings.
Buyers will be chosen by lottery later this spring, with preference being given to local residents. Applications must be received by the Housing Partnership, at 180 Oser Avenue in Hauppauge, no later than March 17.
To be eligible for the state program, a family of four cannot earn more than $50,720 a year. A single person can earn up to $35,504.
Income limits to qualify for the additional Federal grant are lower. Annual income of a family of four, for example, cannot exceed $41,500.
ASSUMING a purchase price of $83,990 and a 5 percent down payment of $5,450, buyers at Brookside Estates can expect to pay $557 monthly on a $79,500 mortgage at 7.5 percent interest over 30 years. Taxes on the houses are projected to be $350 a month, for a total monthly housing cost of $907.
If the house is resold within 64 months, the state grant must be fully repaid; repayment is reduced to 90 percent if held for 66 months and forgiven if held for at least 114 months. The Federal grant must be repaid in full if the house is resold in less than 10 years; after that, repayment is waived. New buyers at Brookside Estates need only meet the state income standard, which is higher than the Federal requirement.
Brookside Estates will be the third project built by Park Ridge under the state program. In 1986, the developer built 30 houses in Selden in a single-family project called Hope Ridge. They sold for $68,000. Subsequently, it built a 72-unit condominium in Manorville called Cobble Ridge, where town houses sold for $78,000.
The program's most active nonprofit participant in Nassau and Suffolk is the Long Island Housing Partnership, which has built or sponsored almost 500 units.
Other groups include the East End Rural Preservation Corporation, which currently is building six three-bedroom single-family houses priced from $65,000 to $70,000 on Shelter Island. Buyers have already been chosen by lottery.
In the Wyandanch and North Amityville sections of the Town of Babylon, 20 single-family houses are being built under the program on scattered sites. The sponsor is the town and directing the project is the Community Development Corporation of Long Island, a Centereach-based nonprofit group that administers community development activities for Babylon. Houses in the Babylon program are still available, said L. Von Kuhen, the group's director.
The Long Island Housing Partnership, in conjunction with the Town of Southampton, recently completed another single-family house project in the town. At the 30-unit single-family development in East Quogue called the Pines, three-bedroom houses ranged in price from $83,590 to $94,930. About 200 would-be buyers signed up for the lottery.
"The cheapest house out here is $150,000 to $160,000, and I never could have afforded to own one," said Jo Ann Doyle, who moved into her $94,930 colonial at the Pines in April. Ms. Doyle, who is single, said she owns a liquor store in East Quogue that provides her with an income of about $30,000 a year.
Single people often have the most difficult time affording a house of their own, said Marianne Clemente, who works as a computer operator for an aerospace company.
"For the longest time I was living with my parents trying to save money to buy something," she said. "Unless you make over $40,000 or have two salaries, it is very hard to save enough, and most single working people, I feel, fall into that category."
ON Sept. 26, she purchased a two-bedroom condominium in a 66-unit development in Middle Island called Country View Estates, where condominium apartments were reduced in price from $98,990 to $73,990 by a $25,000 state grant. The units, each occupying a full floor in a two-story, Victorian-style town houses, have two bedrooms, dining areas and eat-in kitchens. Monthly common charges are $110; taxes are now $48 a month, but they will rise to $287 by the end of the year.
"It took me 20 years to get my piece of the rock," Ms. Clemente said. Her company once planned to move to Texas, and she gladly would have gone, she said. "Now my answer would be, 'No,' " she added.
Buyers at Country View Estates were picked by lottery. However, two contracts fell through, so two of the apartments are still available, said David Scro of Scro & Scro Properties in Ronkonkoma, the developer of the 21-acre project.
Among families who have purchased at Country View Estates are Richard Morel, a New York City corrections officer, and his wife, Donna. They have two small children. Until they bought their new home, they lived with Mrs. Morel's mother in East Setauket.
Under a mortgage program being offered by the Roslyn Savings Bank, which views the state grant as a $25,000 equity that buyers already have in their houses, the Morels were able to obtain almost 100 percent mortgage financing. They paid only $400 in cash to the bank at the closing.
Their monthly payments for their mortgage and common charges come to $900, Mr. Morel said, "which is not much more than we would have to pay for rent."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Scro, developer of Country View Estates in Middle Island, where buyers were picked by lottery. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND HOUSING PARTNERSHIP NEW YORK STATE AFFORDABLE HOUSING CORP (57%); LONG ISLAND HOUSING PARTNERSHIP (57%); SUFFOLK COUNTY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (70%); PARK RIDGE ORGANIZATION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND HOUSING PARTNERSHIP SUFFOLK COUNTY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (70%); PARK RIDGE ORGANIZATION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHAMPTON (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



720 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Residential Complex in Edison Gets the Green Light

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: EDISON

 BODY:
EARLY this month a developer deeded to the township a 30-acre forest of hardwood trees in the Dismal Swamp for a nature-study preserve.
The action sealed a compromise struck two years ago involving the developer, Continental Properties, of Brick, conservationists and Edison Township, ending eight years of debate over the future of much of the 600-acre swamp. 
 Last year the developer, which had originally owned 375 acres of the swamp, donated 225 acres of its property off Talmadge Road to the township. , Under state law the land now cannot be developed. In addition, the deed transfer of the forest stipulates that it will remain forever open.
Now Continental, which has been slowly developing its non-wetlands property, has a green light to proceed with the rest of its scaled-back project calling for 1,034 residences. In addition, it was granted approval for 330 rentals adjoining but outside the swamp property.
The swamp is a wilderness of scrub and marsh that is home to wood turtles and more than 200 species of birds, including the blue heron.
When she heard of the forest transfer, Jane Tousman, a former township councilwoman and a founding member of Save Our Swamp, or S.O.S., which fought in court for preservation of the entire tract, said she was "going to stand up and cheer because saving land like this is like finding a gold bar."
The developer had successfully met each of the S.O.S. challenges in court before a compromise was reached.
The transfer defines the shape of Continental's $135 million housing and retail development, called the Villages at Edison. Now, Continental will shift 179 units planned for the forest site to another section of the project without increasing its overall density of 1,034 residences -- condominium town houses, single-family homes and rentals, including 105 for low- and moderate-income elderly tenants. The township had originally approved 2,230 units after the developer agreed to extend Talmadge Road through the swamp. But the number had been cut after additional wetlands were found on the site. Also planned are 86,000 square feet of retail space.
The developer can also move ahead on the construction of 330 high-end rentals to be known as Talmadge Village. The $30 million project will rise on 24 acres the developer owned adjacent to the swamp that the township rezoned from industrial to multifamily use as part of the compromise.
"The only reason it worked is that people were willing to compromise," said Mark Fisch, a principal of Continental. He noted that the rezoning of the 24-acre site "was the additional bonus needed for the compromise to make economic sense," Securing the approvals made it a reality, said Mr. Fisch, whose company in the last 15 years has built or is now building some 3,500 dwelling units in the township.
One project is Durham Woods, the 1,000-unit rental where eight buildings were destroyed and 127 families were left homeless when a natural gas pipeline exploded nearly two years ago. The buildings have been replaced and the complex, which borders what will be Talmadge Village, is nearly fully occupied, said Mr. Fisch.
While the tug-of-war between preservation and development is not new, the one over the Edison tract is distinctive in several ways. First, it involved Mrs. Tousman's group of five environmental-minded women, who plotted strategy over coffee against a big developer. It also reflects the increasing use of land deals as an option to acquisition.
THEN there is the compromise itself, which was contingent upon the developer's securing the necessary approvals over two years, all of which are now in place. Unless that happened, Continental could have proceeded with the court-upheld plan calling for 1,034 residences, including developing the forest.
"In the world of municipal trade-offs," said Andrew A. Strauss, a Trenton-based planning consultant involved in conservation, commenting on the compromise, "a land deal is a practical planning and zoning tool used to solve debates over open space.
"What it comes down to is how much density a community is willing to accept" -- and will it get more than it will lose.
In Edison's case, Mayor George A. Spadoro said the township could absorb the additional 330 units and that the deal was important because it allowed "us to add to our supply of open space without incurring any debt."
Edison lost much land to development in the mid-80's building boom. From 1980 to 1990 some 10,325 residences were built in the township and its population rose to 88,680 from 70,193, it is now about 90,000. To serve that population it needs 900 acres of open space to meet the standard of 10 acres for every 1,000 people; its existing supply is now more than 600 acres. Recognizing this, the township, as part of a master plan re-examination last year, made open space preservation a priority.
Mayor Spadoro said Edison was seeking funds under the state's Green Acres Program -- the major source of public money for the acquisition of open space -- to buy three parcels, together totaling some 50 acres. It is also negotiating with Conrail to donate an 100-foot wide, over one-mile-long old railroad right-of-way to turn into a greenway; and it wants to preserve as much land as possible edging an eight-mile stretch of the Raritan River for a public waterfront walkway.
"Having the forest and the adjacent marshlands protected fills in one piece of that puzzle," said Mayor Spadoro.
"There were a lot of concessions along the way, but the end result of preserving so valuable a piece of open space for future generations was worth it," added Mrs. Tousman.
Mr. Fisch of Continental said that "everyone is happy, to a degree." He said with the upscale rental units his company's two projects "will cover each segment of the housing ladder."
Of the 1,034 units making up the Villages at Edison, 60 single-family homes and 128 town houses already have been built and sold. The remaining 459 town houses planned comprise Village Pointe, which includes the 179 units transferred from the forest site.
The one- to three-bedroom units will range in size from 1,000 to 1,660 square feet and in price from $90,000 to $140,000. Construction has begun and 20 units have been sold, said Mr. Fisch.
WORK is proceeding on the 387-unit rental component, called Village Court.
The one- and two-bedroom garden-style market-rate units have 920 to 1,265 square feet of space and rent for $750 to $850 a month. The subsidized units for the elderly are smaller, and monthly rents are $525 to $600. To qualify, tenants must have an annual income of no more than 80 percent of the Middlesex County median, which is $44,240for a single person or $50,560 for a two-person household.
At Talmadge Village the 330 upscale rentals will consist of one, two and three-bedroom units; many of the larger units will be duplexes, with 660 to 1,275 square feet of space.
Following what the National Multifamily Housing Council in Washington calls a growing trend they will have features often associated with town houses, such as separate front entrances and laundry rooms. Most will also have garages and recreational amentities, including a pool are planned. Rents are expected to be $725 to $1,000 a month.
The units, designed in traditional style by Sullivan Associates of Philadelphia, will be marketed "to people who do not want to buy or cannot afford to buy a town house," said, Mr. Fisch. Construction is to start next week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Fisch, a principal of Continental development company. Forest deeded to Edison to seal deal is at right. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL PROPERTIES CONTINENTAL PROPERTIES (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONTINENTAL PROPERTIES

GEOGRAPHIC: DISMAL SWAMP (NJ); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FORESTS AND FORESTRY REAL ESTATE (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (90%); WETLANDS (89%); ZONING (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); APPROVALS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); BIRDS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); 

PERSON: MARK FISCH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



721 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Real Estate Industry Slims Its Image for the 90's

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT'S residential real estate boards, multiple-listing services and real estate agencies are responding with various degrees of enthusiasm or antipathy to the mergers, downsizing and technological transformations within their industry.
Generally, consolidation in the interest of survival prevails. It's just a matter of how much. 
 "There are now 24 boards in the state, down from 32 in 1993," said Gerald R. Kunde, executive director of the Connecticut Association of Realtors in Hartford, "and we will see more consolidations."
Last October the National Association of Realtors ruled that agents and firms throughout the country may choose to belong to only one real estate board in their state to qualify for subscribing to a regional multiple-listing service.
A statewide multiple-listing service, often talked about, "is not on the front burner," said Mr. Kunde, adding that "we are waiting to see if those that have gone regional serve the market."
Brokers are also dwindling in numbers, although some boards report modest increases in memberships. Real estate licenses issued annually by the state's Real Estate Commission have dropped from 38,300 in 1987 to 20,000 in 1995.
Mr. Kunde said that boards in Norwich, Danielson, Willimantic, Litchfield and New Milford were considering mergers; Greater Hartford and New London have regionalized their multiple-listing services, that Hartford, New Haven and Waterbury were cooperating, but not consolidating, and that the shoreline boards of Madison, Guilford and Old Saybrook had merged.
A major change in Fairfield County is the formation of the Westport-Weston-Norwalk-Wilton Board of Realtors -- the largest in the county with 875 members. In 1994, the Norwalk Board of Realtors was dissolved because of financial difficulties. Its members accepted an invitation to join the Westport-Weston Board, and last spring they all merged with the Wilton Board.
Harriet Haffner, president of Haffner Realty in Norwalk, is the newly elected first president. "Real estate has become big business," she said. "I have been a boutique business. To remain viable we have to function like the A. & P. We have to stock the shelves with as many listings as possible, be able to disseminate as much information as the big firms do to our agents and the home-buying public."
In spite of the expense and training required for computerization, the complexities of merging, and a poor housing market, she said, "1995 was my best year."
THE board-of-choice ruling has been of particular benefit to large companies and national chains with offices in several towns. Whereas they formerly had to join the real estate board and multiple-listing service in each municipality, they may now join only one board and buy one regionalized multiple-listings book.
Fairfield County's new Consolidated Multiple Listing Service produces two such books, one for down-county, the coastal area close to New York City, one for up-county, the Danbury and Shelton areas, with a total of about 18,000 listings. "One volume costs $25 a month, two are $50," said Donald Hull, director of the Norwalk-based service. "Most people buy the one for their area."
"We have about 4,000 members and sell some listings to an additional 700 members from Branford to Essex," he said. Using a Moore Data Systems program, the information is available to real estate agents and appraisers around the state, provided that they join one Fairfield County Board. "The next step," he said, "is tying into the Internet."
"The biggest shake-up was losing our own multiple-listing cash cow," said Kevin Bender, president of the Northern Fairfield County Association of Realtors, formerly the Greater Danbury Board of Realtors. Serving Danbury, Bethel, Brookfield, New Fairfield and Redding, with outside members from New Milford, Newtown and Ridgefield, the board had 1,200 members in the mid-80's. "People joined just for access to our multiple-listing service," he said.
The board is now down to 800 members, an increase of 10 percent over last year, but dues went up from $96 to $135 to help absorb the loss of service revenues. A $110 initiation fee is waived for licensed brokers. "The marginal people are gone," said Mr. Bender. "Agents today are treating this more as a profession than a hobby."
Large boards like Mr. Bender's and those in more affluent communities have tended to remain independent, some even continue to produce their own local multiple-listings books.
In Greenwich and Darien, rated, respectively, the second and sixth most expensive housing markets in the nation by Coldwell Banker Schlott (Beverly Hills, Calif., is first), local real estate boards and local multiple-listings services are not likely to merge or become regionalized in the foreseeable future. However, some agents and companies in those towns have joined the Westport-Weston-Norwalk-Wilton Board, and subscribe to the Consolidated Multiple Listing Service.
"We have no reason to merge with anyone," said Linda Hodge, vice president of Preferred Properties in Greenwich, where the median house price is $641,625, according to the Coldwell Banker Schlott survey. However, the company's six additional Fairfield County offices belong to various town boards and use the Consolidated Multiple Listing Service.
"What has to be worked on is embracing Greenwich, Darien and New Canaan into the regional multiple-listing service," said Peter Helie, president of William Pitt Real Estate. Based in Stamford, the agency has 14 offices around the state, mostly in Fairfield County.
Mr. Helie was a founder of Fairfield One, a multiple-listing service that joined with Realtors MLS to become the Consolidated Multiple Listing Service of Fairfield County. Fairfield One was capitalized in 1993 as a nonprofit corporation with loans of $500,000 each from William Pitt, William Raveis, Prudential and Coldwell Banker Schlott.
The PRC computer system of Fairfield One was not compatible with the Moore Data System of Realtors MLS, which was managed by Mr. Hull. In order to consolidate "a settlement was negotiated jointly with PRC," said Mr. Hull.
William Pitt had dropped its membership in the Stamford Board of Realtors. "We now belong to the New Milford Board," said Mr. Helie. "It was the most reasonable."
Costs in Stamford include a $900 one-time initiation fee for companies, and $200 for individual agents who are new to real estate. The agent's fee is waived for licensed brokers. Annual dues are $150. "About 40 people have gone to other boards," said Jan Milliken, president of the Stamford board, "but some are coming back."
In an economy move two years ago, the board sold its building on Third Street and now occupies rented quarters on Hope Street. "We've been talking to New Canaan, Darien and Greenwich about sharing some costs, but not merging and losing individual identities," said Ms. Milliken.
ANOTHER holdout against mergers is the Ridgefield Board, where memberships increased slightly this year from 185 to 200. Dues are $225 annually and the initiation fee is $150.
Memberships have increased more substantially at the Greater Bridgeport Board, from 690 in 1994 to 750 today. "We cut our dues from $150 to $129, and we waive the $100 initiation fee for licensed brokers," said Jeffrey Craw, the president.
"Memberships are going to shrink again," he said, "as agents take advantage of technology and become more efficient and sell more houses. But technology only helps with the preliminaries. This is a personal business -- people still want to touch and feel that house, see the community, have a human contact."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harriet Haffner and Gilbert Strickler check multiple listings at Haffner Realty office in Norwalk. A sampling of the houses for sale (right) on computer screen in the office. (Photographs by Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (74%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (74%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS REAL ESTATE AGENTS (95%); REAL ESTATE (94%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); MERGERS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR DAVID S HAFFNER (53%); DAVID S HAFFNER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



722 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: MINDING YOUR BUSINESS;
Why, and When, Home Care Insurance Is Needed

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN 

 BODY:
Q. I bought a long-term care insurance policy in the 1980's, when you could only get nursing home coverage. Can I switch to a policy that also covers home care?
A. For many people in good health, it is not only possible but strongly recommended. The reasons are several: People are living longer and relying more on home care while the Government is threatening to cut back on such aid. So if you are over age 50 with a net worth of at least $250,000, it is time to start shopping around for a policy that includes home care. If you are worth less, the annual cost of additional coverage could be an overwhelming burden. 
 To understand why, let's look at the economics of long-term care. People with $1 million in liquid assets can get away without any type of long-term coverage because they can pay for care as needed. But working-class people without much money will exhaust resources fairly quickly and rely on Medicaid to pick up nursing home tabs.
Long-term care insurance is exactly that: insurance. It does not guarantee that assets will be protected from exorbitant medical bills. After all, your health care needs may exceed the value of the policy or fall outside its terms. The policy can, though, provide some comfort, given that nursing home care for a husband and wife now runs $80,000 a year on average.
If you decide to get a long-term care policy, don't wait until retirement age. "People as young as 50 should be looking into long-term care insurance," said Dana Shilling, a lawyer and author of "Financial Planning for the Older Client" (National Underwriter, 1994. $25.95). "But it's easy to see why they're reluctant to do so." At that age, they probably still have children in college and a mortgage, leaving them barely enough to send a check to Mom in Florida and to take a two-week vacation.
Once you hit 50, you may want to forget that second week of vacation and lock in a decent premium for long-term care insurance while you can. The annual premiums rise sharply, tripling by age 70.
Congress is considering another incentive to buy. If an agreement is ever reached with the White House on a balanced budget, one proposed provision would make the premiums on long-term care tax deductible and the benefits exempt from taxable income.
Still, don't expect the Government to go overboard. Medicare, the insurance program for the elderly, pays less than 3 percent of long-term care costs in this country. Medicaid, the insurance program for the poor, picks up less than half of nursing home bills, leaving private citizens to pay half.
By 2020, the Health Insurance Association of America says, more than 12 million elderly Americans will need some sort of long-term care. The New England Journal of Medicine says 31 percent of men aged 65 and up and 33 percent of women will spend one to five years in a nursing home.
At best, only a third of the population has bothered with financial planning for long-term care. Part of the reason may be that older Americans want to spend their waning days at home rather than in a nursing home. And before 1990, home health care policies were rarely available. Members of extended families were expected to pitch in and provide care in the home.
But societal changes, namely more mobility and two-earner households, make such family care harder to come by. Furthermore, advances in technology have made home care much more viable for a wider variety of conditions. It is now possible to conduct some forms of chemotherapy at home.
If you want to upgrade a policy, there are a couple of options, said Donald M. Kohnstamm of Desmon, Kohnstamm & Tyrpak, a Buffalo financial management firm. "Some states will allow you to take out a separate home health care policy," he said, adding that New York is not one of them. "Otherwise, you may be able to trade up to a policy which includes home care or supplement your original policy by adding a rider."
There is no standard in policy costs and benefits. One important consideration is what conditions must be met for a payout, Mr. Kohnstamm said. Most policies pay if you cannot perform two of five activities of daily living without help. These vary according to the policy, but may include bathing, dressing, eating, moving around and going to the bathroom. Some policies will also pay in case of medical necessity, even if the insured can still perform daily tasks. The third common reason for a payout -- and one to make sure is on the list -- is a diagnosis of cognitive impairment because of old-age dementia or Alzheimer's disease.
Even in small ways, home health insurance can help preserve your dignity and ability to remain independent. Should you have trouble bathing and dressing, it will pay for an aide to come in for an hour each morning and evening to help. Or it can reimburse the costs of going to an adult day-care center. If you need a wheelchair, the insurance may cover the cost of an access ramp, a motorized chairlift for the stairs and even a special-needs kitchen.
The cost of upgrading will vary with your health, age and the number of years the policy has been in force. Beyond that, you control the cost by selecting the daily benefit, the waiting period before benefits begin and the number of years the benefits will be paid.
For example, a healthy 58-year-old man living in New York State could get $200 of coverage a day for an unlimited time after a 30-day waiting period, plus an allowance for 5 percent compound inflation, for about $2,100 a year if he wanted only nursing home coverage. A combined home care and nursing home policy would cost about $3,400 a year. But he still might have to pay some costs of care out of his own pocket. In New York City, costs for daily care are about 25 percent higher -- $250 a day, still slightly less than a room at the Plaza Hotel.
As far as cost goes, there are two things to keep in mind. If you are under 70, it is wise to choose compound rates instead of simple inflation protection. This way, a 58-year-old who buys a $200-a-day policy will get $585 a day of benefit at age 80 instead of $420. You should also ask about the chance of an increase in premiums. Insurance companies cannot arbitrarily raise prices on one person's policy, but they can petition the state to increase rates for a pool of policyholders.They have been known to do just that.
It is easy to see why children often buy long-term care policies for their parents. A Long Island businessman said he was spending $130,000 a year to provide his parents, both in their 80's, with the best of home health and nursing home care; neither had long-term care insurance. With costs like that, 10 years' worth of premiums starts to sound reasonable.
Just remember: If you decide to surprise Mom and Dad with a policy as an anniversary gift, make sure they weren't expecting a trip to Hawaii.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL PLANNING INFORMATION INC (53%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HOME HEALTH CARE; NURSING HOMES LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (92%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (91%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); MEDICAID (89%); AGING (89%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); MEDICARE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (64%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: PEDERSEN, LAURA DONALD M KOHNSTAMM (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



723 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: The Tide Is Rising For Refinancing

BYLINE: By MARGARET O. KIRK 

 BODY:
THOUGH home sales have not ignited, loan rates are flirting with record lows.
In the last few weeks, the average rate on a 30-year mortgage has dipped below the psychologically important barrier of 7 percent several times. At that level, rates are approaching the 25-year lows recorded in 1993. So not only is it a good time to buy, but it is also a good time for many homeowners to consider refinancing. The potential advantages are several: smaller payments, better cash flow and perhaps more favorable loan terms. 
 Andrew M. Masse, an insurance executive in Wheaton, Ill, closed on the purchase of his family's home in October and is already refinancing his mortgage. "We look at it as free money," Mr. Masse said. "So why not?"
The savings, he said, will be $94 a month after his 30-year jumbo loan of $260,550 is refinanced to a rate of 7.75 percent from 8.25 percent. In his case, the new lender is covering all the associated refinancing costs.
"If the rates come down and they continue to pick up the costs, I would consider doing it again," Mr. Masse said. "It's a savings every month."
Though most mortgage and real estate professionals say the refinancing surge will not equal the stampede of three years ago, they expect further increases because they see rates continuing to drop over the next several months.
The peak in refinancings came in October 1993. At that time, refinancings accounted for 69 percent of all home loan applications, and borrowers could get a 30-year mortgage at 6.59 percent, said Frank E. Nothaft, deputy chief economist at the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, which is known as Freddie Mac.
Three weeks ago, nearly 51 percent of mortgage applications were refinancings, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, a trade group in Washington. That was up from 10 percent a year earlier, when the average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 9.09 percent.
Keith T. Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, a mortgage research firm in Butler, N.J., said this "rolling ball of refinancing" was particularly good for three kinds of mortgage holders.
People who are into the second or third years of an adjustable-rate loan are prime candidates. Many of them may be facing rates higher than those available now on a fixed-rate loan. "There is no sense in staying in a product that is higher than a fixed rate," Mr. Gumbinger said.
Homeowners with a mountain of debt -- say for credit cards, cars or student loans -- may also want to refinance as a way to consolidate debts. By adding other loans to their home loans, they can take advantage of fixed rates that are more attractive than those on credit cards or home equity lines of credit and get a tax deduction on the interest paid. The strategy can ease repayments for cash-short families and makes sense on paper.
But there is a downside: Extending debt for a longer period and perhaps taking equity out of your home can result in greater indebtedness over the long haul. At the least, consider the ramifications before stretching out the number of years remaining on your home loan, and avoid doing it repeatedly.
The third group ripe for refinancing consists of those Mr. Gumbinger calls the "stragglers, those who did not or could not refinance during 1993." Some stragglers, he said, saw a loss of equity in their homes in the early 1990's, when prices sank, and could not refinance until the housing market recovered. Others lost their jobs and needed to show two years of steady employment to qualify for an attractive new loan.
When refinancing these days, the most popular type is a fixed-rate loan. As mortgage rates slowly but steadily dropped, the percentage of loans at fixed rates doubled to 62 percent in November 1995 from 31 percent in January 1995, according to statistics from the Federal Housing Finance Board.
"It's human nature," said Terrance G. Hodel, president of the North American Mortgage Company, which is based in Santa Rosa, Calif. "Once you get into the high 6 percents and low 7 percents, people will take a fixed rate. They want certainty." Mr. Hodel said he expected interest rates to drop further and the flight to fixed rates to pick up steam.
Mr. Gumbinger of HSH said he also expected mortgage rates to drop further -- if favorable conditions continue in the bond market, if an accord is reached on the Federal budget and if inflation continues to remain at bay.
"But if any one of those wheels falls off the cart," he cautioned, "it could be a different story."
Trying to time a refinancing at the absolute bottom of the rate curve is next to impossible -- all the more reason for people with relatively high rates to start looking at the numbers to determine when it will pay off for them.
Financial experts no longer argue that refinancing is beneficial only if the new rate is 2 percentage points lower than the old one. The reasons are that many lenders have eliminated or reduced the associated fees, called points, and that it can pay off to switch to more favorable loan terms, say from an adjustable-rate to a fixed-rate loan at the same rate, especially if you plan to be in the home for many years.
Not everyone is better off with a fixed-rate loan. Neil Bader, chief executive of the Skyscraper Mortgage Company in New York, said low fixed rates would not mark the end of the adjustable loan.
"People who have a very good idea of how long they will be in a property should trade down from a 30-year to an adjustable," he said. "Unless you are prepared to be in a property for 13-plus years, a fixed-rate 30 doesn't pay. There are so many options now that you can take a loan for as long as you are going to be in the property. We call that 'niche refinancing.' "
Todd Kumble, an investment banker in Manhattan, took advantage of just such an opportunity. He and his wife plan to sell their co-op on Riverside Drive in about a year, but their adjustable loan was approaching its third year and the rate was going to adjust to 8.25 percent. They didn't like the rate but saw no reason to lock into a long-term loan. When they bought the apartment eight years ago, they took out an adjustable mortgage, and they refinanced three years ago into another adjustable rate.
"It makes sense for me to refinance again" with an adjustable rate, Mr. Kumble said. Once he completes the work on a new one-year adjustable mortgage, at a rate of 5.18 percent, he figures he will save about $6,000 a year in mortgage payments on his $203,000 mortgage. "I'll cover my $1,000 in closing costs in about two months," Mr. Kumble said, "and the rest is gravy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Todd Kumble, an investment banker, is refinancing the mortgage for the co-op on Riverside Drive in Manhattan where he and his wife live. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES MORTGAGE RATES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CASH FLOW (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CREDIT CARDS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: KIRK, MARGARET O KEITH T GUMBINGER (77%); ANDREW M MASSE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



724 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: ROAD AND RAIL;
Straightening Out the Perilous Somerville Circle

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

DATELINE: BRIDGEWATER

 BODY:
Out on the new, improved Somerville Circle, drivers still swerve and bob and weave. Hesitators, looking lost, still glance nervously over one shoulder, then the other. The brave ones still treat the circle like a racetrack, cutting across freshly painted lane markers to the inside, then slingshotting off at the exits like freed electrons. And still, though less frequently, come the squeal of brakes and the crunch of metal.
The circle, feared and reviled by three generations of drivers, has been the subject of one of the state's more frustrating experiments in traffic management. In 1994, the Department of Transportation opened an overpass that allows a quarter of the traffic to bypass the jammed-up circle entirely. Traffic flowed much faster, but the accident rate doubled, to more than one a day. 
 Now, after a year of plastering the circle with yield signs and painted arrows, state and local officials agree that order is finally returning. But not quickly enough for the mayors of Bridgewater, Raritan and Somerville, who have asked the state to bisect the circle and turn it into a five-way intersection with traffic lights.
"The improvements they've done have been helpful, there's no question," Bridgewater Mayor James Dowden said last Tuesday morning as he watched a Ford Escort roll through a stop sign at 5 miles an hour and then dash out in front of a line of cars, the first of which honked angrily. "They just didn't go far enough."
The state has asked for time to gauge the effects of the latest improvements, completed in November.
The Somerville Circle, which straddles the Bridgewater-Raritan border and joins state highways 202, 206 and 28, was built in the 1930's. By 1988, the real estate and economic explosion in Somerset and Hunterdon counties was feeding 70,000 cars into the circle. Fender-benders were frequent; hourlong rush-hour backups were the norm. Officials begged the state to do something. In 1991, the Transportation Department began building an overpass for Route 202, the busiest of the highways, which connects Flemington, to the south, with Interstates 78 and 287, to the north.
In 1991, the last year before the overpass was built, there were 195 accidents on the circle. In the first 12 months after it opened, there were 302.
"Change always sets people back a little bit," said John Graf, a Transportation Department spokesman. "There were changes that made you stop and think, and people who were trying to be courteous were causing other accidents behind them."
In February 1995, at the request of local officials, the Transportation Department installed "yield ahead" signs at the circle approaches to warn drivers of the new traffic patterns, apparently to no avail: from mid-August to mid-November, there were 102 accidents, a rate that would produce more than 400 a year.
In November, the Transportation Department tried another round of corrections, painting lanes and arrows on the road to reinforce the left-turn, straight and right-turn-only signs. A yield sign was replaced with a stop sign. Although there are no accident figures that reflect the latest changes, police in Bridgewater and Raritan say collisions are down sharply.
Mr. Dowden, however, said drivers would be best served by doing away with the circle altogether. While the old circle was a free-for-all where no one ever knew who had the right of way, the new circle can be just as confusing. A driver entering the circle on Route 28 westbound, for example, encounters no fewer than 10 yield and lane-control signs in less than 100 feet.
"The more signage we keep putting up, the more confusing we make it," Mr. Dowden said, wincing as a woman in a blue Toyota stopped when she didn't even have to yield, causing the trucker behind her to slam on his brakes two feet shy of her bumper. "There are yield signs and that's great, but a lot of people don't understand what yield means."
Peter Riscica, a project engineer with the Transportation Department, disagreed: "The amount of signage that's there is what's necessary to give advance notice as well as what's needed at the merge points."
Even the fact that traffic now flows faster has disadvantages, said police Capt. Gary Stramaglia, traffic bureau chief in Raritan. "Before, when you had bumper-to-bumper traffic, you had fender-benders," he said. "If you're going around the circle at 30 miles an hour, the impacts are more severe."
In principle, the state agrees that circles are not the best way to control traffic. Over the last 25 years, the Transportation Department has replaced more than half of the state's 101 traffic circles with overpasses and intersections. But the state, having already spent $26 million improving the Somerville Circle, wants to give the new configuration a chance.
"If we make these improvements and show a nice benefit," Mr. Riscica said, "that's much less expensive than cutting through."
Mr. Dowden remained unmoved. "We still feel very strongly that the lights are a viable solution," he said. "Maybe it'll take a minute and a half more to go around, but I'd rather be safer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Circle improvements don't go far enough, said Mayor James Dowden of Bridgewater. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Diagram: "Changes at the Somerville Circle" shows the proposed traffic lights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOMERVILLE (NJ); BRIDGEWATER (NJ); RARITAN (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY TRAFFIC SIGNALS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY JAMES DOWDEN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



725 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Stirred by the Budget, Gold Jumps From the Doghouse

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA MUNGER KAHN 

 BODY:
AFTER a stunningly successful year for United States stocks and bonds, gold has been the place to be in early 1996.
Hedge funds and commodity funds moved into the gold market early this month, pushing prices higher, said Kjeld Thygesen, who manages the Midas gold fund from London. And with threats circulating of a United States default on its debt, gold has been attracting even more investors for its role as a safe haven in uncertain times. 
 For the first time in almost two and a half years, gold has settled in New York above $400 an ounce several times this month. Gold prices, which hovered around $385 for most of last year, have risen about $20, or 5 percent, since November.
Nervousness over the United States budget impasse has been a big reason behind the rise in gold, according to some market experts. "You have a bunch of politicians throwing around the possibility of default," said Stanley R. Steinberg, manager of precious metals for Credit Suisse in Manhattan. "That's the main thing."
Some others attribute much of gold's run-up to increased skittishness about the financial markets in general. Gold generally does not move in tandem with other financial assets. When stock and bond markets are soaring, gold usually lies low -- as it has for the last 10 years. Conversely, when stock and bond markets are falling apart, gold often holds its own.
A desire to hedge against possible stock and bond market declines is what led Connie Chen, a financial adviser in Manhattan, to urge her clients this year to increase their exposure to gold, primarily through gold stocks. "I upped my hedging from 5 percent to 15 percent right after the 1995 banner year," she said. "I think it's wise to protect your assets."
One of her clients, Marvin Rubinstein, a retired business owner, said he had begun to push his gold allocation from 5 percent of his $1 million-plus portfolio to 15 percent. "I think now is probably a very good time for it," Mr. Rubinstein said. "There is a fair amount of confusion in the market about where things are going, and the same is true for the country and the world. Historically, in these types of situations, that's when gold shoots up."
As Mr. Rubinstein hints, what begins as hedging can quickly lead to speculating in the market. As gold prices surge, investors flock to the sector. "It's just liquidity chasing a hot market," Charles Clough, chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, said of the recent move by gold. "It's a trading game."
Such a view implies that gold's latest rise is short-lived. In fact, some financial advisers are warning that the party could be over as soon as a budget agreement is worked out. "The budget impasse has a lot to do with this rally," said Stephen Klein, an investment analyst at the Standard & Poor's Corporation. "Once it's resolved, you're likely to see backtracking in gold prices."
Loading up on gold as a way to bet on a protracted budget impasse could be risky for another reason: though he has backed down for now, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin has said he might be forced to raid the Government's gold reserves to forestall a default on the nation's debts. Such a maneuver might drive down the price of gold even further.
Whatever action the Government takes, a price decline would return gold to its role as the doormat of investments, getting no respect from most of the financial community.
"For someone who speculates, fine," said Joel Isaacson, president of a financial planning firm bearing his name in Manhattan. "For long-term investors, I don't see a lot of places for it in a portfolio."
Even Ms. Chen does not see gold stocks or funds as good long-term investments. "I do not feel they have major appreciation potential," she said.
This attitude toward gold is no surprise. Over the last decade, gold investing has been an oxymoron. For the 10 years that ended in 1995, gold generated an 18 percent total return (not an annual return, mind you), according to Merrill Lynch. That was much worse than the returns on stodgy three-month Treasury bills, which were up 81 percent; long-term Treasury bonds, up 204 percent, or stocks, up 300 percent.
"Gold has been an absolute dog," said Edwin Arnold, a metals specialist for Merrill Lynch in London. And the reasons have not changed, he said, reaffirming that gold's most important use has been as a hedge against inflation and as a haven in times of trouble. Inflation remains at bay, at least for now, and investors have plenty of other options for hedging risk with the elimination of exchange controls, permitting investors to buy other currencies relatively easily, and the growth of the futures markets, Mr. Arnold said.
Even if gold edges up to $420 an ounce, that's no big profit, Mr. Steinberg pointed out. "A $20 move on a $400 item is 5 percent," he said. "You can get that leaving your money in the bank."
 Still, no one has a crystal ball -- one guaranteed to work, that is.
Gold bulls like Mr. Thygesen argue that increasing demand for gold will move the market into a new trading range. "The fundamentals are very good," he said.
Individual investors interested in gold would be wise to stick with shares of gold mining companies or gold mutual funds, Ms. Chen said. In contrast to coins or ingots, or futures or options, gold stocks represent an actual producing asset -- a company -- and may even pay dividends.
Typically, shares of gold-mining companies rise two or three times the percentage increase in gold prices. Once these companies cover their high fixed costs, additional revenues fall mostly to the bottom line, explained Gerald Perritt, editor of The Mutual Fund Letter and a newly minted gold bull. He argues that prices could rise to $425 an ounce this year, which could easily translate into 20 percent gains for gold stocks and mutual funds.
Ms. Chen suggested that investors interested in tracing a continued run-up in gold bullion look to large, well-known producers, like those that make up the S.& P. Gold index: Barrick Gold, Echo Bay Mines, Homestake Mining, Newmont Mining, Placer Dome and Santa Fe Pacific Gold. Share prices of smaller, newer companies are tied to their ability to find and develop new reserves, while shares of larger companies tend to track more closely the movements in gold prices.
For most individuals, the best route to gold exposure may be through a mutual fund, which provides diversification. That is especially true in a volatile sector like gold. According to Morningstar, the top performer over the last five years on a risk-adjusted basis is the Midas fund. In that period, the fund produced an average annual return of 17.05 percent, in part because of Mr. Thygesen's bets on smaller companies that have found and developed new reserves.
Other highly rated funds are Vanguard Specialized Gold and Precious Metals and Fidelity Select Precious Metals and Minerals. Each fund tends to have at least a third of its assets in South African gold stocks, which are heavily leveraged to the price of gold, said Mark Wright, a Morningstar analyst.
A final note of caution comes from Mr. Klein of S.& P., who warns that the stock market has already discounted much of the good news for gold. The eight mining companies he follows now sell at stock prices of 30 to 75 times earnings. At that level, he said, the market is discounting gold at $430 an ounce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BIHAR, INDIA (58%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) BOND MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); 

PERSON: KAHN, VIRGINIA MUNGER MARVIN RUBINSTEIN (66%); EDWIN ARNOLD (56%); CONNIE CHEN (56%); STANLEY R STEINBERG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



726 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MIDTOWN;
Power Struggle Stalls Station Plan

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
After a joint city-state-federal effort finally won $315 million to remodel the General Post Office on Eighth Avenue into a grand new Pennsylvania Station, the project has stalled in a power struggle over who will run it.
The Giuliani administration is demanding that Amtrak remove Amy Linden, 39, as project director, saying she is unfit in light of her troubled tenure as director of city school facilities. Richard J. Schwartz, a senior mayoral adviser, confirming a report in The Daily News, said last week: "She doesn't appear to be the right person for this job, which requires an individual that has handled projects of this magnitude and complexity and importance." 
 Although the city has a major voice in project policies, Amtrak is not budging. Its president, Thomas M. Downs, said: "This is an Amtrak capital project managed by Amtrak staff. I don't expect Mayor Giuliani to comment to me about Amtrak staff decisions. Likewise, I don't believe it would be proper for me to raise questions about Mayor Giuliani's staff decisions."
Amtrak refused to disclose Ms. Linden's salary, and she did not respond to a request for comment. A graduate of Yale's School of Organization and Management, she won awards early in her career when her proposal led to the creation of a new authority to oversee school construction. In 1987, Chancellor Richard Green hired her to run school maintenance, which was notorious for corruption and incompetence. Some experts praised her efforts. But her tenure became snarled in controversies over fraudulent asbestos inspections, bribery indictments of employees and her failed attempts to gain control over custodians in labor talks. In 1994 she quit, saying: "I'm just plain tired. I need a rest." She joined Amtrak last May.
State officials are deferring to the Mayor. Gov. George E. Pataki's chief economic development official, Charles A. Gargano, said: "If we're going to be partners in this with the city and Federal Government, we need consensus on who will be the project manager." He said that the manager "must be a person with heavy experience."
Last year the Mayor, the Governor, Transportation Secretary Federico F. Pena and Mr. Downs signed an agreement that specifies that major project decisions be adopted unanimously by a six-member board composed equally of city, state and Federal representatives.
The project calls for the Postal Service to merge operations into the nearby Morgan building so the classically styled General Post Office can be adapted as a new Amtrak station, with a large courtyard, restaurants and shops. It is to recall the design of the original Penn Station, which was demolished in 1963 to preservationists' dismay. Will the project, slated to take five years, be blocked until someone backs down over Ms. Linden? Said Mr. Schwartz: "It's premature to speculate." BRUCE LAMBERT

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amy Linden, head of the Amtrak project. (Bill Swersey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMTRAK NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); GENERAL POST OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK GENERAL POST OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; PENNSYLVANIA STATION (NYC); POSTAL SERVICE; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; GENERAL POST OFFICE BUILDING (NYC); STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER) RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (76%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (64%); CORRUPTION (64%); BRIBERY (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING (50%); INDICTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LINDEN, AMY RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



727 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: The Rise in Fees: How a Little Can Mean a Lot

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
IN the last few years, hundreds of mutual funds have gone to their shareholders with their hats in their hands. The funds' investment advisers want a raise.
And they usually get what they ask for. Typically, the fund's management and its directors offer a multitude of reasons that paying more money will benefit shareholders, then vote for a new management contract with higher fees. Then the contract is approved by shareholders. While the increases may seem tiny, only a fifth or a tenth of a percentage point, they can represent millions of dollars in added costs for each fund. 
 Plenty of funds, though, have resisted the temptation to charge investors more for their services. Some funds have even cut their fees as assets have ballooned. Fidelity Investments, for example, has lowered the management fees on hundreds of its funds. The management fees charged by United States stock funds vary, but they are clustered at 0.70 percent to 0.75 percent of fund assets. Despite no drastic changes in this number in recent years, management fees have roughly doubled over the last 50 years, said Amy C. Arnott, editor of Morningstar Mutual Funds, a fund newsletter.
Stein Roe Special, Third Avenue Value and Seligman Communications and Information are among prominent funds that have moved recently to raise management fees. These funds and their directors say the decision was not undertaken lightly. "There were literally hours and days and many meetings," said Brian Zino, a managing director for J.& W. Seligman & Company. As reasons for the increases, the funds point to six-figure salaries of portfolio managers and the cost of investment research.
Still, investors would do well to ponder whether they are getting their money's worth. "It is difficult to justify an increase in fees," said Ken Gregory, the editor of the No-Load Fund Analyst, a newsletter based in San Francisco. "I think it's more a matter of knowing they can get away with it."
Mutual funds levy a tangle of fees, covering everything from payments for regulatory registration to payments for outside directors. Management fees typically cover the salaries of the portfolio managers and the other funds' analysts, the cost of investment research and various administrative costs associated with running the fund. Investors curious about their funds' fees may have difficulty comparison shopping. Stein Roe, for example, used to charge one fee for management and administration but now levies two. The management fee at Third Avenue Value does not include the cost of its leased office space, which the fund also picks up. What is and isn't included should be listed in the fund's prospectus and other documents.
So how do funds justify pay raises?
"We deserve it," is a frequent explanation. When a fund delivers outstanding returns year after year, investors have an easier time swallowing a pay increase -- and funds an easier time asking for one. Take the Seligman Communications and Information fund, which is seeking shareholder approval next month for a 20 percent increase in its management fee. Under the direction of Paul H. Wick, the fund has beaten all other technology stock funds over the last five years with a spectacular average annual return of 37 percent, according to Morningstar.
"On funds like Seligman, I frankly don't give a damn" about higher fees, said Robert Markman, who manages the Markman Multifund Trust in Edina, Minn., and owns the fund, "except from a moral point of view."

BUT Seligman would make plenty of money even without the fee increase. Its top performance has been a magnet for assets, which soared from $404 million at the end of 1994 to $2.6 billion at the end of last year. Under its old fee structure, which put the management fee at 0.75 percent of assets, Seligman would have earned more than $3 million on $404 million in assets. That fee would have grown to an estimated $19 million as assets multiplied last year. By increasing the fee to 0.9 percent of assets, the fund will reap an additional $4 million at its current size. If the fund, which is expected to reopen to new investors next week, grows substantially, the amount would rise that much more.
"The seeds were all planted a year and a half ago," explained Mr. Zino, who said the astronomical growth in the fund's assets occurred well after the discussion over the management fee began.
Even funds without such impressive results raise their management fees, of course. The Stein Roe Special fund, managed by E. Bruce Dunn and Richard B. Peterson, is charging shareholders 0.85 percent of assets for management and administrative services, up from 0.75 the previous year. The $1.1 billion fund has underperformed other growth stock funds in three of the last five years.
The sad fact is that investors have no guarantee fees will decline if a fund becomes a dismal performer. While directors may ask for higher fees on the basis of strong past performance, only a quarter of all funds tracked by Morningstar link management fees directly to performance so that the fees drop when performance suffers.
"We don't have any Damocles' sword," conceded Tibor Fabian, a director of the Third Avenue Value fund, whose management fee has risen to 0.9 percent of assets from 0.71 percent. "We are exceedingly satisfied with Marty Whitman," the fund manager.
Another common explanation for a fee increase is that "everybody's doing it." As long as the fee requests are not far above the industry average, managements feel well within their rights to ask for more. In deciding to raise its fee, regardless of how much money the fund attracted, Third Avenue Value looked at similar funds, according to Joanne Jaffin, director of marketing. Since those funds had higher fees, which didn't fall as assets rose, the directors felt comfortable with the change. "It seemed to be the norm," she said.
Stein Roe makes a similar argument. The company wants its prices to be competitive with its peers, said Thomas Butch, a senior vice president.
That kind of reasoning frustrates Ms. Arnott of Morningstar. The decision by funds to charge more "might conceivably be justified if they started out with an extra-low fee, but not many fund families do that," she said. If the explanation for increasing fees remains simply that it's what every other fund does, she says, fees will continue to climb.
A need to satisfy so-called star managers is a main reason for seeking more money. "The cost of outstanding talent has increased significantly in recent years," said Cam Avery, a partner in the Chicago law firm of Bell, Boyd & Lloyd, which serves as counsel to the Stein Roe funds and their trustees.
None of the three funds cited here as moving to raise their fees said there was any immediate danger of losing their star managers, but they emphasized the need to keep salaries competitive with those of other fund groups, banks, insurance companies and private money-management firms.
Many funds groups, including Fidelity, have managed to keep their fees level without losing their managers. And if assets soar in relation to the fund's performance, as in the case of the Seligman fund, tens of millions of dollars more will be available to pay those managers.

ANOTHER refrain from fund companies is that the additional money requested will be "earmarked for investment research or shareholder services." That, they contend, will directly benefit investors. Stein Roe has added a chief of equity investments, for example, while Seligman has brought in additional analysts to help Mr. Wick pick technology stocks. Third Avenue Value has added an equity analyst and outside consultants.
Funds are also spending more money on services to help shareholders and to attract new investors. Stein Roe, for example, has invested in systems that give shareholders access to their accounts by telephone and to a fund representative on weekends.
In the case of the Third Avenue Value Fund, investors were asked to pay for the adviser's leased office space in addition to the management fee. The cost of the lease runs no more than $30,000, according to Ms. Jaffin, who said it was a common practice but could not name another fund that was doing so.
All of these funds have seen an increase in assets, of course, which should, theoretically, cover the increase in costs. But some fund companies argue that the economies of scale are small or nonexistent. "Just because a business is growing doesn't mean the demands aren't growing in step with the business," said Mr. Butch of Stein Roe.
Implicit in the demand for higher management fees is the suggestion that investors will be amply rewarded with superior returns. "People are willing to pay for expertise and service, in general," said Ms. Jaffin of Third Avenue.
But after studying the performance of diversified stock funds and their management fees, Ms. Arnott found no correlation between fees and returns.
To be fair, the three funds raising management fees still will not be among the industry's most expensive. That honor goes to funds that charge at least 2 percent of assets -- like Wasatch Micro-Cap or Analysts Stock funds, according to Morningstar.
Still, with thousands of funds available, many of which are virtually identical in investment objectives and returns, investors should try to make sure they're getting their money's worth. Nothing, after all, including last year's dazzling returns, is certain -- except for death, taxes and, in this case, fees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (90%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); SHAREHOLDERS (91%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); APPROVALS (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



728 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WATERFRONT;
Pataki About to Remove Waterfront Park Plan From Limbo

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
In two weeks, Gov. George E. Pataki is expected to unveil his plan to create the world's longest urban waterfront park, a 4.5-mile strip along the Hudson River. His action will end a year of turmoil for the $300 million, 105-acre project, which proponents say will shape the area for decades.
"The Governor now has the plan in his possession," the state's economic development commissioner, Charles A. Gargano, said last week. "He likes the plan and will be making an announcement shortly." 
 While the official plan for Hudson River Park has been in limbo for a year, the new waterfront itself has begun to emerge in a series of recent developments at significant sites. They include the opening of walkways, bikeways and the Chelsea Piers complex and Mayor Giuliani's decision to redevelop the Passenger Ship Terminals and to build a new heliport opposite the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, displacing a towed-car pound.
This spring the long-awaited, much-debated rebuilding of the West Side Highway -- to be done in conjunction with the park -- will begin in lower Manhattan.
Hudson River Park is descended from the old Westway proposal dating to the 1970's, which environmentalists defeated. Eventually the state settled on the current scaled-down highway project, and the Hudson River Park Conservancy was appointed to create a parallel park.
But just as the conservancy finished its plan, Mr. Pataki took office and put it on hold. The terms of six of the nine conservancy board members expired. The board itself has not met since June, and Mr. Pataki named Peter K. Keogh as the agency's president, replacing Tom Fox, an appointee of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
But now it seems as if the conservancy's efforts were not wasted. Mr. Gargano said that there will be only "minor modifications" to its plan and that several new board members will be announced soon by Mr. Pataki and city officials.
The park remains controversial. Critics, particularly in Greenwich Village, see it as a camouflage for commercial development, especially at Pier 40, the largest on the West Side. "The plan is a monstrosity," said Carol Feinman of Community Board 2. "The best and cheapest thing would be to have a plain park to complement the beauty of the Hudson."
An attempt to block the conservancy plan suffered a setback last month when a lawsuit filed by environmentalists and other critics was rejected by the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court. An appeal is planned.
Community Board 1 in Lower Manhattan and Board 4 in Chelsea and Clinton are more amenable to the plan. "We all want it to happen," said Robert Goldstein, chairman of Board 1's waterfront committee. But Board 4 members were outraged that the Giuliani administration did not consult them on the redevelopment of the Passenger Ship Terminals, and members of both boards have assailed the state over delays.
The Mayor has also been unhappy with the progress. "It's been very, very frustrating," said Deputy Mayor Fran Reiter. "We've been ready to go and pushing the state for months."
The conservancy chairman, Michael J. Del Giudice, also a Cuomo appointee, said delay was inevitable because of a new mayor and a new governor, both with severe budget problems. But with the project resuming, Mr. DelGiudice said, "It's going to be a fantastic opportunity." BRUCE LAMBERT

GRAPHIC: Map: "ALONG THE HUDSON: A Park in Progress" shows what's in place and what's planned along the Hudson River Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY BOARD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY BOARD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (92%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); MAYORS (73%); BOARD CHANGES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); MARINE VESSELS (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (67%); APPEALS COURTS (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); LAMBERT, BRUCE RUDY GIULIANI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



729 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
In '90s, As in '60s, Money Pours In

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Did you buy your $447 worth?
That is what the average person in the United States -- man, woman and baby, rich and poor -- invested last year in mutual funds that buy American stocks. At the end of the year, that average person owned such funds with a value of $4,074. 
 Those two figures, each a record, illustrate both how widespread the fund mania has become, and how fast it is growing. A year earlier, the average American -- there were fewer of them, of course -- had domestic stock fund assets of just $2,704.
Some people argue that not much is really happening here -- that if you look at the overall picture Americans are really not doing that much more in the stock market. Sure, they are buying a lot of mutual funds, but they are buying fewer individual stocks, and a lot of those mutual fund purchases are really replacing pension fund assets.
Such arguments, however, should be allowed only to color the picture, not to erase it. A glance at the newsstand shows that publishers think there is much more interest in the market than there used to be, and circulation figures seem to bear them out. This is a boom brought on by rising stock prices and baby boomers' growing worries about how they will pay for retirement.
John Rea, the chief economist of the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund industry group that compiles the cash-flow numbers, points out that the industry's success in gathering assets has run in long cycles. Until 1970, it constantly took in money. Then, from 1971 through 1982, as the stock market went nowhere, albeit with some wide swings, money mostly flowed out.
In early 1982, just as the great stock market boom was about to begin, stock funds had less money than they had held 15 years earlier. Fund companies got by with innovations, giving us money market funds at a time when Government policies left banks unable to pay competitive interest rates and then providing bond funds to capture the very high returns available in the early 1980's.
The late 1960's was the previous period of mutual fund mania, when young fund managers could quit their jobs and start new funds, with investors showering huge sums on them. The money was used to buy some fairly dubious stocks, often on terms that prevented the managers from selling them if things went wrong. (Limits were later imposed on such investing by mutual funds, but they were eased a few years ago to let managers go after more attractive prospects. Historical memory has never been a strong point of this industry.)
Comparing eras is not easy, but it is interesting. In 1968, the peak year of the last mutual fund mania, the average American put $10 into stock funds. That is equivalent to $45 in 1995 dollars, or about a tenth of the flow into domestic stock funds in 1995. The holdings of that average American, also adjusted for inflation, were about $1,000. It looks as if this mania is a lot bigger.
If it is fund mania that is helping to drive up prices now, the question becomes how it will end. The answer probably is that it will not be panicky fund investors who bring on a bear market; just the reverse.
The 1960's binge did not stop even when the performance of the formerly hot funds fell off sharply; it took a couple of years for that message to sink in sufficiently for withdrawals to begin affecting the industry. Withdrawals reflected poor performance, but they no doubt helped to perpetuate the slide of stock prices in the great 1973-74 bear market. And it was years before the public came back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: INVESTMENT CO PLC (66%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); BOND FUNDS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); BONDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CASH FLOW (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); PUBLIC POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



730 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.: The Ghosts of Teapot Dome;
Fabled Wall Street Offices Are Now Apartments, but Do Not Yet a Neighborhood Make

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
YOU would not know it when you set foot in Joseph Pell Lombardi's apartment, but a major episode in American history was played out in the rooms where he sleeps, eats and plays the piano.
His apartment is where Harry Sinclair, the oil magnate, hatched the sweet deals with the Harding Administration that were later exposed as the Teapot Dome scandal. Mr. Lombardi, an architect and a developer, converted the 33-story headquarters of the old Sinclair Consolidated Oil Company into a co-op in 1979. His living room, high above the canyons of the Financial District, was once the company's boardroom. 
 "Living here, you take on the heritage of all the occupants who were here before you," Mr. Lombardi said. "That's the rich part. I think of Harry Sinclair making deals. It seems, in my imagination, a bit quaint and personal compared to the sterile boardrooms of today."
His apartment, in the 1909 neo-Gothic office tower at 55 Liberty Street, is one of 1,800 in 110 converted office buildings and warehouses scattered among the towers of the Financial District. Mr. Lombardi, who plans to convert several more buildings in the area, is at the vanguard of a movement that city officials hope will revitalize lower Manhattan. With a fifth of the area's office space empty, the city and state are trying to spur residential conversions with eased zoning restrictions and tax breaks for developers. The hope is that apartment hunters will follow the pattern established in SoHo and TriBeCa, where empty industrial buildings metamorphosed into living space.
But some who already live there say it will take some doing to make their fledgling neighborhood a viable 24-hour community. Joel and Renee Kopel, for example, moved into a 23-story co-op in the old Cotton and Tobacco Exchange Building for the large, affordable space, river views and easy access to virtually every subway line. Rents and co-op prices in the Financial District are 10 to 20 percent cheaper than for comparable apartments elsewhere in Manhattan.
"But you trade off, because we don't really have a neighborhood," Mr. Kopel said. "There are a couple of things that the residents really need downtown."
Their wish list includes more supermarkets, a movie theater closer than Greenwich Village, a pharmacy that stays open past 6 and a good diner. Others call for more schools: P.S. 234 and the new Stuyvesant High School are nearby, but a junior high is not expected to open until 1998. Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, said he expected more services to follow the creation of up to 5,000 new apartments in the next seven years.
Lower Manhattan lost 100,000 jobs in the recession that followed the 1987 stock market plunge. Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate firm, reports that 24 percent of the Class B space is vacant. Telecommunications added a double blow: banks and brokerage firms could move away from Wall Street; the lack of modern wiring in the old office towers rendered some obsolete.
Many realtors have doubts about a residential boom there. "The jury is still out," said Henry Robbins, vice-president of Yale Robbins Inc., which publishes data on real estate trends. "The area dies at night. It needs a neighborhood, a community."
The district has come a long way in 26 years. Only 833 people lived south of Chambers Street in 1970, according to the Census; by 1990 there were 13,782. Most, however, live in developments like Battery Park City and Southbridge Towers.
"Lower Manhattan can become a really glamorous neighborhood," said Robert A. M. Stern, the architect and author. "Who doesn't want to live in a skyscraper? Everybody in movies lives in apartments on the top of Manhattan." Mr. Lombardi's 5,100-square-foot apartment actually was used as a film set, for a 1990 thriller, "Blue Steel."
If Liberty Tower highlights the promise of converting an old skyscraper, it also represents the complications. Its white terra cotta facade, rich with gargoyles, is being restored to comply with a city law intended to prevent falling debris. Since the tower is a landmark, the work had to be done to the original specifications and cost about $6 million, with a typical assessment of $55,000 a unit. Some residents could not afford the charge and had to sell. A lawyer for the co-op, James G. Samson, cautioned that more than 20 other buildings in lower Manhattan could face similar problems.
Liberty Tower gave Charles Thanhauser and his family a spacious apartment at less than the going rate. But Mr. Thanhauser, an architect, now has to buck the rush-hour crowd as he heads to work uptown. "Now when I go to work in the morning," he said, "I feel like a fish swimming upstream."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "You take the heritage of all the occupants who were here before you," says Joseph Pell Lombardi, looking like a captain of industry in his library. His entrance hall is at left. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "PAST AND PRESENT: If the Walls Could Talk..."
 A house tour of the 29th floor of 55 Liberty Street, whose current occupant, Joseph Pell Lombardi, turned it into Liberty Tower, a residential co-op.
 
BOARDROOM
Then -- Boardroom of Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corporation, where Harry Sinclair, the chairman, got a last vote of confidence in 1929 as he went off to serve six months in prison for his role in the Teapot Dome scandal.
Now -- Mr. Lombardi's wood-paneled living room overlooking Chase Manhattan Plaza. Various replicas of the Statue of Liberty sits in each window. The velvet furniture looks as if it comes from an English club.
 
DINING ROOM
Then -- Sinclair Oil's executive dining room. "Wherever he sat," a colleague said of Harry Sinclair, "was the head of the table."
Now -- Mr. Lombardi's oval table seats eight. On the walls are posters of great oceanliners like the Lusitania and Aquitania, which were in the harbor when the building went up 1909.
 
LIBRARY
Then -- Sinclair Oil's business library.
Now -- Mr. Lombardi's library, where leather-bound volumes of Dickens and Shakespeare line shelves salvaged from an old downtown law firm.
 
(Source: "The Prize," by Daniel Yergin [Simon & Schuster, 1991])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (50%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (50%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HISTORY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); ZONING (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); CITIES (65%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); THEATER (58%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL; LOMBARDI, JOSEPH PELL JOSEPH PELL LOMBARDI (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



731 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Now, How Low Can Crime Go?

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

 BODY:
"AT last, we have begun to find a way to reduce crime," President Clinton proclaimed in his State of the Union address last week. He was only the latest to join a chorus of self-congratulation heard from cities around the country.
Seattle's murder rate dropped by 32 percent last year, St. Louis's by 18 percent. New York's decline in major crimes, including a two-year, 40 percent plunge in homicides, is so liberating that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani can consider a cut of 1,000 officers in the 38,000-member force to save the city $30 million. 
 With policing becoming more effective, the crack-cocaine epidemic subsiding, and longer prison sentences incapacitating offenders, criminologists expect that crime rates may continue to head lower for a few more years, even if more slowly.
But looked at from a longer view, the country continues to suffer through the most prolonged crime wave since the days of the wild West -- not only homicide, which is the most reliably reported crime, but also such offenses as robbery and burglary.
Between World War II and 1963, the nation's homicide rate hovered between four and five murders for every 100,000 people. It started climbing in 1964 and by 1973 had reached nearly 10 for every 100,000 people. Since 1973, the rate has oscillated between 8 and 10 per 100,000 people.
New York's tally of 1,182 murders last year is a wonder to behold compared to the 2,245 reported as recently as 1990, despite minimal population change; it was enough to propel Police Commissioner William J. Bratton onto the cover of Time magazine. But compared to the 390 murders in 1960, or even the 986 in 1968, the murder rate in 1995 still conjures images of Dodge City.
The provocative "law and order" campaigns of George Wallace and Richard Nixon in 1968 came at a time when crime reached proportions that we now either seem to consider acceptable or intractable.
"Everyone is crowing about what is going on in New York," said Lawrence M. Friedman, a historian of criminal justice at Stanford University Law School, "but we remain at a very high plateau."
 
 
 
Reversible Rates
 Can the country return to the crime rates of the Eisenhower and Kennedy years? And if it cannot, what has made the march of crime so difficult to reverse?
If American history is any guide, crime waves are reversible. When Johnny came marching home again after the Civil War -- a period at least as revolutionary as the 1960's -- he faced joblessness and he all too often took out his frustrations with his new-found martial skills. But the country's cities calmed by the mid-1870's. The upswing of violent crime accompanying the wave of immigration at the turn of the century, and then Prohibition in the 1920's, was much longer lasting, but it quickly ran out in the early 1930's.
Most criminologists, however, are doubtful that a similar criminal retreat will occur again because the current crime wave has many more and more intractable causes.
One reason crime went up sharply in the 1960's was that an extraordinarily large number of young men, born immediately after World War II, grew into their crime-prone years. That would explain, at least in part, the upward surge in the homicide rate between 1963 and 1973 -- though it does not explain the persistence of the high rates ever since; in New York, crime rose in the late 1980's as the number of teen-agers declined.
Some say the primary cause for the lasting increase in violence is the proliferation of guns. Juvenile delinquents wielded switchblades in the 1950's, graduated to Saturday night specials in the 1960's and took up 9-millimeter semi-automatic handguns and even assault rifles in the late 1980's.
Some contend that the proliferation of guns cannot fully explain the crime increases, noting the surges in burglary, auto theft and grand larceny -- crimes commonly committed without firepower. This argument usually notes, too, that 70 percent of the nation's violent juvenile prison population comes from broken families, implicating a slew of social dislocations that accelerated in the 1960's.
 
 
 
No Turning Back
 "We can't go back to 1963," said James Alan Fox, a criminologist at Northeastern University, "in terms of removing millions of guns from the streets, in terms of bringing back the traditional American family, in terms of restoring religion to its former prominence, in terms of restoring educational institutions to their former prominence, in terms of changing the way we portray crime in the media."
Crime rates, perhaps even more than such other indicators as the birth and inflation rates, can reflect a wide range of social and economic conditions. But the fact that the murder rate has more than doubled since 1963 does not mean that the society is doubly worse off. Crime rates are just another indication of how much the society has changed -- some ways for the bad; some, arguably, for the good.
Through the 1950's and 1960's, television widened the national audience for many forms of culture, but many social scientists suggest that by replacing dinner conversation with westerns and police shows it glorified violence and helped erode family cohesion. Likewise, the sexual revolution and the destigmatization of divorce and illegitimacy were liberating for some and destructive for others.
"Crime is a barometer of social disorganization," said Professor Friedman.
No group has felt that barometer more than blacks. About half of the prison population is black, according to the Justice Department. Victimization rates are also high in black communities; in about 80 percent of all serious crimes, the offender and victim are of the same race.
Along with all the good that the civil rights movement achieved in the 1960's, Alfred Blumstein, a criminologist at Carnegie Mellon University, noted that it also "contributed to the breakdown of respect for authority and it provided the opportunity for the black middle class to escape the ghetto -- thereby removing an important force of social control there." That development became interwoven with the flight of manufacturing jobs from the inner cities and the surge in heroin use.
 
 
 
Decades of Drugs
 Drug crimes also rose among whites, of course, as experimentation with hallucinogens and amphetamines gave way to the upscale cocaine epidemic of the late 1970's and 1980's. While drug use is less fashionable now, heroin appears to be gaining a mystique in some of the same social circles.
James Q. Wilson, a professor at the University of California at Los Angeles, argues that the increases in crime rates since the early 60's, in the United States as in most of the industrialized world, represent "the completion of the West's long-term effort to emancipate the individual, freeing people from the controls of family, neighborhood, schools, villages."
To return to the levels of the 1950's, Mr. Wilson said, "you would either have to invest so massively in law enforcement as to strain our fiscal and constitutional restrictions or abandon our commitment to the emancipated individual and return to a quite different culture."

GRAPHIC: Photo: New York's homicide body count has swung from 390 in 1960 to 2,245 in 1990 and down to 1,182 last year. Above, a murder in the Bronx, 1994. (Eugene Richards/Magnum Photos)
 
Graph: "A Century of Murder" shows the rate per 100,000 people in the United States. (Sources: Census Bureau; Federal Bureau of Investigation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS CRIME RATES (92%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); MURDER (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); BURGLARY (78%); LAWYERS (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SENTENCING (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); CIVIL WAR (71%); HISTORY (71%); ROBBERY (70%); COCAINE (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD BILL CLINTON (73%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



732 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
It's All in the Ear of the Beholder

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE President stood at the rostrum of the House of Representatives, supporting a tax credit for families with children, and outlining five goals for the American people, from raising the standard of living to preserving natural resources.
"We are determined that every citizen of this nation shall have an equal right and equal opportunity to grow in wisdom and in stature and to take his place in the control of his nation's destiny," the President said. 
 The President stood at the rostrum of the House of Representatives, supporting a tax credit for families with children, and outlining seven challenges for the American people, from raising the minimum wage to preserving the environment.
"Our goal must be to enable all our people to make the most of their own lives with stronger families, more educational opportunity, economic security, safer streets, a cleaner environment and a safer world," the President said.
The first President was Harry S. Truman, in his 1948 State of the Union address, at the beginning of his comeback election year. The second was Bill Clinton at the beginning of what he hopes will be his own comeback last week.
 
 
 
The Annual Ritual
 Their situations are different. But their similar sentiments show a truth of modern American political ritual: Presidents come and Presidents go, but the State of the Union speech just keeps rolling along.
"It's a big old showboat going down the river," said Peggy Noonan, who helped write her share of speeches for Ronald Reagan in the 1980's. "It's not the fastest thing, or the prettiest, but when it's going by, everybody stops and watches."
Yet the speech has become remarkable not nearly so much for what is said as for how it is heard, and how it projects against the landscape. And it is heard and seen very differently from year to year.
For example, the laundry list of priorities in Mr. Clinton's hourlong speech last Tuesday -- which was generally praised -- was nearly identical to the list in his 81-minute marathon of last year -- which was panned by the pundits, though not the public. In both, he called for overhauling welfare and campaign finance laws, consolidating Federal job training programs, restoring civility and cracking down on teen-age pregnancy and violence in the media, often in nearly the same words.
So what was the difference, besides 20 minutes? The biggest was that Mr. Clinton's political fortunes have revived a good deal in the last 12 months, even as those of the Republican Congress have stalled.
Yet the President's very repetition also shows the limits of his power. He recited his agenda for the umpteenth time in part because so much of it remains unachieved at the hands of hostile Congresses (Republican and Democratic).
Then, too, in an age of increasingly short attention spans, repetition is good politics. The White House assumes that hardly anyone remembers the details of last year's speech, and it knows that this year's was the last time that Mr. Clinton will have such a purely Presidential platform before the campaign begins in earnest. So he took his best shot replaying his greatest hits; the line about violence in the media was one of the highest-scoring sections in public opinion surveys after the speech last year, so why not give it another whirl?
The Constitution merely requires that the President report annually to Congress, not that he do so in person, and Thomas Jefferson began a century-long tradition of sending only written messages. But Woodrow Wilson, the professor-turned-politician and master rhetorician, revived the personal appearance in 1913, and the custom has been followed by every President since.
 
 
 
Offering Great Thoughts
 The State of the Union has been used for great statecraft. James Monroe used one of his to announce the Monroe Doctrine, warning European powers to keep their hands off the Americas. Theodore Roosevelt used his first to launch his campaign against rapacious big business.
But more often, in the modern era, the address has been the occasion for dutiful enumeration of priorities. In the television era, the occasion has become something else: the single most splendid setting (outside the inaugural) for displaying the President in all his Presidentiality. As such, it is seldom a speechwriter's dream.
"I always regarded it as something of a chore," said Theodore C. Sorenson, who labored on President Kennedy's. "It seems to have substantially evolved as a ritual from where it was 35 years ago, with the clearest change being the gimmickry of having a hero seated in the gallery with the First Lady, which began with Reagan. I guess it's high drama, but whether it adds to the dignity, I don't know."
Mr. Sorenson said Mr. Clinton's deftest trick was to borrow Republican notions on crime and values, then embrace them with his own caveats so as to make them his own. "It made it clear that the Clinton position was not a difference in objective or principle so much as it was a difference in methods and means," Mr. Sorenson said, "and the public's increasingly coming around to his point of view."
Ms. Noonan, as befits a Republican, gave the President points for trying, but mostly dismissed the speech as remarkable for its unremarkability.
"Last year's State of the Union was actually historically bad," she said. "This time, he came on, he kept himself to an hour, and he kept himself together and he seemed to stay with his text. And he seemed, God bless him, if no one else had faith in what he was saying, he had faith in it."
"It'll go into the big books of State of the Union addresses," she predicted, "and history will never again refer to it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cheering Democrats, left, and subdued Republicans, right, played their roles in the annual State of the Union ritual. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (57%); REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); CONSTITUTIONS; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (67%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (50%); 

PERSON: JEFFERSON, THOMAS (1743-1826); WILSON, WOODROW (1856-1924); PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



733 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Eenie, Meenie;
Picking America's Favorite Russian

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AMERICANS are watching in confusion as Russia beats against the current, borne ceaselessly into the past. With Boris Yeltsin shelling villages, firing reformers, blowing the budget and placing intelligence operatives in key positions throughout the Government, trying to reinvent himself again before presidential elections in June, is he still America's guy?
And if not Mr. Yeltsin, for which of the likely presidential candidates should America root? And why? 
 The first problem is that Washington's clumsy embrace of Mr. Yeltsin may have done more harm than good. "You can argue that Yeltsin has been hurt by our rooting for him, and the Clinton Administration has been hurt by it, too," said Stephen Sestanovich of the Carnegie Endowment. "So who comes out ahead?"
Paul Goble, a steady critic of Administration policy now with the Potomac Foundation, which studies Eastern Europe, says it's time for the United States to stop embracing personalities in any case, as if countries had feelings rather than interests. "Since 1985," he said, first with Mikhail Gorbachev and now with Mr. Yeltsin, "we've identified with a leader rather than a process." Once you do that, he says, "you have nowhere to retreat" when your favorites behave badly.
For instance, American officials admit they were too slow to condemn Russian behavior in Chechnya. Most people think they were just bending over backwards for their friend Mr. Yeltsin.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher says firmly that "America doesn't have a candidate in that election." It is the election itself that matters, he said last week, and the exercise of democracy.
But he immediately added that Mr. Yeltsin "has been a reformer" who has accomplished a lot. "We're very strongly supportive of the reformers who want to continue the reform," he said, "but we don't have a candidate in that election."
Of course America does have a candidate, given the alternatives, and that is the multi-flawed, pasty-faced, heart-damaged, Chechnya-wounded Mr. Yeltsin.
Parsed, Mr. Christopher's statement means that Mr. Yeltsin or any other Russian President should stay a reformer if he wants a good relationship with the United States, let alone $9 billion in needed loans over three years from a suddenly panicky International Monetary Fund.
The problem, though, is complicated. There is confusion over what the United States believes anymore about Russia, besides understanding that a President Gennadi Zyuganov, the head of the Communist Party, or a President Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the operatic ultranationalist, would be worse than a President Yeltsin in whatever incarnation.
 
 
 
Peaceful, at the Least
 At the very minimum, American interests lie in a militarily peaceful Russia with no forceful designs on its newly independent neighbors of the "near abroad," let alone elsewhere. An economically stable Russia is considered a less dangerous country. So is a Russia willing to cooperate on nuclear non-proliferation and arms control. But all this is far from the kind of "Marshall Plan" alliance that some in both countries thought possible when the Soviet Union collapsed.
Clinton Administration officials, after early euphoria about "partnership," have steadily diluted the definition of "reform" and "reformer" to match Mr. Yeltsin's now-accelerated shift away from Western-style market economics. The American notion of "reform" is now so stretched, like an old elastic band, that it can encompass almost anyone who believes in keeping inflation below hyperinflation, won't renationalize everything and thinks it useful to have cooperative relations with the United States.
Even so, that definition can only cover three potential candidates: Mr. Yeltsin; his prime minister, Viktor Chernomyrdin, who says he won't run if Mr. Yeltsin does; and Grigory A. Yavlinsky, the young economist officially nominated yesterday by the liberal Yabloko party, which got only 6.9 percent of the popular vote in last month's parliamentary elections.
American officials say hopefully that Mr. Yeltsin is just tacking for political reasons, to try against the odds to win re-election in June. That message -- don't worry, be happy -- will be repeated this weekend when Mr. Chernomyrdin comes to Washington for his regular semiannual meeting with Vice President Al Gore.
To win, however, Mr. Yeltsin must unite the very reformers the United States says it supports, but who have come to despise Mr. Yeltsin even before his latest self-definition as a semi-Communist caudillo.
Mr. Yavlinsky, who better fits anyone's definition of a reformer, is simply judged unable to win. American officials think that even running against the bland Mr. Zyuganov in a second-round runoff between the two top finishers, Mr. Yavlinksy would lose. So a big part of Mr. Yeltsin's task, should he make the second-round runoff, will be to attract Yavlinsky voters.
This is what Mr. Sestanovich calls "the clothespin vote": "While people are holding their noses, do they vote for the Communists or for Yeltsin?"
"The political reality is that a vote for Yavlinsky is likely to be one that keeps Yeltsin out of second place for the runoff," Mr. Sestanovich says. And the winner of the second round is likely to be decided by the disappointed supporters of Mr. Yavlinsky on one hand and Mr. Zhirinovsky on the other. "So how does Yeltsin appeal to both of these different voters at the same time?"
Mr. Yeltsin seems to think that Yavlinsky voters, and those who favor other reformers, like the former Prime Minister, Yegor Gaidar, and the sparky young governor of the Nizhny Novgorod region, Boris Nemtsov, have nowhere else to go. But Mr. Sestanovich is not so sure.
As the army rampages so ineffectively around Chechnya, Mr. Yeltsin is a much less reassuring figure than before. His problems of health and alcohol, his episodes of puzzling and embarrassing behavior, compound the damage. And no one knows how much longer he will live.
Many American officials wonder whether Mr. Yeltsin can even make it to the final round, and they know their public embrace, like the beautiful, poisoned dress Medea gave to Jason's bride, could destroy him.
"Our influence over the election is very limited," one senior Administration official said a bit wanly. "And what we have may in fact be harmful."
 
 
 
That's Democracy
 Mr. Goble of the Potomac Foundation is dismissive of such hand-wringing. "If we believe Russia is a democracy, as the Clinton Administration keeps saying it is, then we have to accept the verdict of the voters." In many ways, he too is rooting for Mr. Yeltsin. "But I don't presume to know, if Yeltsin is President a year from now, what Yeltsin will be," he said. "In 10 years he's gone through more lives than a cat. He's not a democrat but a populist. And we do him and Russia an enormous disservice by proclaiming that everything he does is, by definition, democratic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Chernomyrdin gives Moscow the line of his party, Our Home Is Russia; an older message ("We Are Building Communism") is still around. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (58%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



734 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Join the Club: The Annals Of Default

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
IT'S a small, if not especially select, circle of countries that the United States will join if the wrangling in Washington forces the country to default on its debts. Last week the Treasury Secretary warned it could happen at the end of February.But only seven other countries have managed to default on debt in their own currency in the past quarter century.
The group is small because usually it's not that hard for a government to pay such debts. Paying off borrowings in foreign currencies can be hard; doing so in your own is normally easy. After all, government printing presses can simply churn out more currency. 
 So why do governments default? Usually because of revolution or total economic mismanagement and disarray. In Vietnam, for example, the local currency debts of the old South Vietnamese regime were repudiated when the Communists took control in 1975. It wasn't that they couldn't pay; it was that they considered the debts illegitimate. A similar thing had happened in Russia after the 1917 revolution.
Economic disarray was the reason Argentina defaulted in 1982. Inflation had run rampant for many years, and the Government, to borrow in its own currency, had to promise to indemnify lenders against inflation by paying interest rates that would exceed the inflation rate. Issuing more currency just brought on more inflation, and eventually the Government decided to abrogate its contracts.
The other countries on the dishonor role for defaults, as compiled by Standard & Poor's Corporation, the debt-rating company, include Brazil, Venezuela, Myanmar and Angola. Russia joined the group after the Soviet Union collapsed.
None of the Western industrial powers has defaulted on debts in its own currency; no one has thought it possible. Neither revolution nor economic chaos seemed likely, particularly in the United States where Alexander Hamilton, more than 200 years ago, established the principle that this country pays its debts.
But it could happen, and for both reasons -- disarray and revolution. . No one who has followed the budget debate would deny there is economic disarray in Washington. And many of the Republicans in Congress, particularly the newer members, seem more interested in revolutionizing the Government than helping it run. To hear some of them talk, getting their way on the budget is far more important than the question of whether the Government can pay its bills.
It is as if General Motors were now being run by people who were totally disdainful of cars, believing that America would be much better off if horses and buggies were still the primary mode of transportation. They might have a point, but it is not the kind of attitude that would appeal to investors who had lent money to G.M.
 
 
 
A Moveable Ceiling
 The United States, of course, has not run out of borrowing power. Its credit is still good, and the interest rates it must pay are not high. But the politicians years ago established a "ceiling" on the national debt.
The Government continues to run deficits, spending money duly authorized by Congress. And that has meant periodic votes were needed to raise the ceiling. When the Republicans were out of power, a lot of them got used to voting against such increases, figuring that that would sound good back home. The Congressional leadership managed to always push them through anyway.
Now the Republicans are running the place, and many of them are still tempted to vote against any increases. Congress first passed an increase last year full of provisions that President Clinton could not stomach. The Republicans knew it would be vetoed, as it was. The President wanted a clean increase, but the Republicans were loath to give up their most potent weapon.
To bond investors watching all this, it is a little like a teen-ager threatening to run away from home and never return, unless he is allowed to stay out late on Saturday night. The threat is far out of proportion to the issues being debated.
Robert Sobel, a business history professor at Hofstra University, argues that French investors still like to own gold, and are still nervous about default, partly because the French revolutionary government repudiated royal debt more than two centuries ago. "It's not something you forget," he said.
The Treasury had a brush with default after the panic of 1893. In those days, gold stood behind the dollar, and the Government was required to pay out gold to anyone who wanted to buy it with dollars. At one point in 1894, there was not enough gold to cover checks that had been issued. The day was saved by J. P. Morgan, the investment banker, who sold Government bonds in Europe to buyers who promised not to seek gold from the United States.
 
 
 
A Phantom Default
 By some reckonings, there was a real default on Treasury obligations during the Depression -- a default that was never rectified. The Government decided that devaluing the dollar would help the economy, and that meant breaking the promise that the dollars used to pay off bonds would be worth a constant amount in gold. "They unilaterally changed the terms and conditions on which they would repay the money," said David Beers, a managing director of Standard & Poor's. "That's a default." The fact that the Supreme Court, on a 5-to-4 vote, upheld the decision does not change that fact, he argues.
The Federal Government had a brush with default last fall. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin warned that default was imminent before he decided that he could legally raid some trust funds to put off default. Some Republicans, furious that he had frustrated their tactic of using default to pressure President Clinton, talked of impeaching Mr. Rubin. How dare the Treasury Secretary not let the Government default?
Last week, Mr. Rubin said his hat was out of rabbits, and that if Congress did not raise the debt ceiling by Feb. 29, the United States would default. Republican leaders said they would avert default, but it was clear they expected to get something out of President Clinton in return. Moody's Investors Service, another bond rating service, said it was thinking about lowering the Government's bond rating.
Nonetheless, interest rates on Government borrowings have not gone up much in recent weeks, a fact some Republicans have seized on. "No one seriously believes the U.S. cannot pay its debts," said Jeffrey S. Given, an economist with the Congressional Joint Economic Committee who argues that rates would have skyrocketed if people were alarmed about a possible default.
At a minimum, default is no longer unthinkable. But if there is a default, it is something that will not soon be forgotten. Treasury bills, which are short-term Government borrowings, would no longer be viewed so confidently as risk-free investments. That could force the Treasury to pay more to borrow even after the Government has resumed meeting its obligations, making it harder to lower the deficit. And cutting the deficit, after all, was the goal in playing chicken with the Federal debt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (79%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEFAULTING TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INFLATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



735 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Gives An American 5 Years in Jail

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HAIPHONG, Vietnam, Jan. 27

 BODY:
An American Vietnam War veteran who said he came back to Vietnam to live in peace was sentenced to five years in prison today for bringing weapons, banned videotapes and books into the country.
Everett Sennholz, 45, was arrested in August when a .30-caliber rifle was found in a shipment of his household goods in Haiphong, a port city 90 miles southeast of Hanoi. Vietnamese officials called the rifle a military weapon, but Mr. Sennholz maintained he used it only for hunting. 
 The case has alarmed foreigners in Vietnam because Mr. Sennholz appeared to have shipped his rifle, as well as the books and videos, without expecting any problem.
Vietnam has been trying to open its economy to the outside world. Communist hard-liners have objected to creeping Western influence, though, inspiring a crackdown on "cultural poison."
"His act has violated national security," Judge Nguyen Van Canh said as he read the prepared verdict.
Mr. Sennholz appeared shaken by the sentence.
A self-employed tax consultant from Puyallup, Wash., Mr. Sennholz said he had visited Vietnam five times since 1992 and was planning to marry a Vietnamese woman, settle in Haiphong and teach English. He said he had served in the Vietnam War as an Army weapons specialist, but gave no further details.
The Vietnamese allowed two American diplomats and 10 foreign journalists to attend the court session, but they were not allowed to talk to Mr. Sennholz. An American consular official who visited Mr. Sennholz in jail last week said he appeared to have been well treated.
In addition to the prison sentence, Mr. Sennholz was fined $12,700 for trying to bring in 23 banned videotapes and 24 banned books.
"If not discovered, they would have greatly affected social safety and order, and the Vietnamese people's traditions and customs," the judge said.
The books included Stanley Karnow's "Vietnam: A History." The videotapes included "Rambo," which posits that Vietnam is still holding American prisoners of war, and the pornographic 1970's movie "Behind the Green Door."
Mr. Sennholz said that he had reported the tapes and books to the authorities, as required by law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (93%); VIETNAM (88%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: HAI PHONG, VIETNAM (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (93%); VIETNAM (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); HAI PHONG, VIETNAM (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (88%); 

SUBJECT: AMERICANS ABROAD; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); FIREARMS; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); FINES (PENALTIES); BOOKS AND LITERATURE ; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT SENTENCING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PRISONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); VERDICTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); ARMIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CENSORSHIP (77%); ARRESTS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); TAX CONSULTING (67%); JOURNALISM (65%); 

PERSON: SENNHOLZ, EVERETT; VAN CANH, NGUYEN (JUDGE) EVERETT SENNHOLZ (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



736 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Come To Africa

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: KIGALI, Rwanda

 BODY:
While on a stopover in Rwanda, the American U.N. representative, Madeleine Albright, asked her staff and the crew of their Air Force jet to pose for a picture on the runway of Kigali international airport. They all stood on the steps of their Boeing 737, which was emblazoned with the words "United States of America." There was a Greek-American, a Czech-American, Jewish Americans, black Americans and white Americans, there were Air Force crewmen from small towns and State Department experts from Ivy League colleges, and they were all standing there shoulder to shoulder. As they posed for the camera, I watched the Rwandan ground crew watching them. They had a slightly quizzical look. I couldn't help but wonder what the Rwandans made of this scene.
That picture represented everything that is good about America: the spirit of community, the melting pot, the willingness to help strangers in need and a concept of citizenship based on allegiance to an idea not a tribe. It is everything that a country like Rwanda is not. 
 I thought about that scene and I started to get mad -- mad about the budget debate in America today. We have something so special compared with almost every country in the world, but if we want to preserve it, we have to pay for it. I don't know exactly where the budget compromises should come. And there is certainly truth to the argument that to preserve our social safety nets, they have to be reformed and probably reduced in scope. But I do know this: When I listen to many of these freshmen Republicans I hear mean-spirited voices, uninterested in any compromise. I hear cold, Jacobin voices, who denounce government, who really want to let the market rule and who really want to scrap as much welfare, gun control, Medicare, Medicaid and taxes as they can.
Well, Africa today is a freshman Republican's paradise.
Nobody in Liberia pays taxes, there is no gun control in Angola, there is no minimum wage in Burundi and there is no welfare as we know it in Rwanda -- but a lot of their people sure wish there was. Like the desk clerk in Luanda, who looked at me as if I was out of my mind when I asked her if it was safe to take a walk three blocks from the hotel, down the main street of the Angolan capital in the middle of the day. No, no, no, she shook her head -- not safe. I'll bet she wouldn't mind paying some taxes for more police.
And then there was the Liberian journalist who approached me in Monrovia and demanded to know why the U.S. Marines came to Liberia after the civil war broke out in 1989, evacuated the U.S. citizens and then just left the Liberians to fight it out alone. "We all thought, the Marines are coming, we will be saved," he said, "but then they left. How could they leave?" Poor fellow, his country has no marines to come rescue him. I'll bet he wouldn't mind paying some taxes for a few marines.
They don't worry about "Big Government" in Liberia. They don't worry about government at all -- thanks to the gangs and warlords who rule most of the land. No, Liberians may never again have to worry about government regulations or red tape. In fact the only regulation I saw at the Executive Mansion there was a sign on a bullet-shattered window at the front door. It said: "Deposit Your Weapons Here."
Employers don't have to fret at all about pesky worker-safety rules in Angola, let alone services for the handicapped. The 70,000 Angolans who have had limbs blown off by land mines planted during the last 25 years of civil war seem to make do just fine on their own. You see them limping around the streets of Luanda, hustling for food and using tree limbs as a substitute for the human variety. They sure looked happy to me.
And in Rwanda and Burundi, no one is asked to pay for Head Start, unemployment insurance, Medicaid, national service or student loan programs. Instead they just have a brutal competition for scarce land, energy and water, in which Tutsi and Hutu take turns downsizing the other tribe in order to grab more resources for their own.
They say the freshmen Republicans almost never go on Congressional junkets. Too bad. They might want to come to Africa and glimpse what happens to countries where there is no sense of community, no sense that people owe their government anything, no sense that anyone is responsible for anyone else and where everyone, rich or poor, is left to the tender mercies of the global marketplace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RWANDA (95%); AFRICA (94%); LIBERIA (94%); ANGOLA (93%); BURUNDI (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; AFRICA; RWANDA; UNITED STATES (99%); RWANDA (95%); AFRICA (94%); LIBERIA (94%); ANGOLA (93%); BURUNDI (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (84%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); MEDICARE (63%); GUN CONTROL (62%); POLITICS (61%); MEDICAID (57%); JEWS & JUDAISM (56%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (55%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



737 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2380 words

HEADLINE: Challenger's Legacy;
Risks Remain Despite NASA's Rebuilding

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
Could it happen again? Without a doubt, experts agree, though NASA says the likelihood of catastrophe is less today than on that icy morning a decade ago when the space shuttle Challenger, 73 seconds into its flight, erupted in a ball of flame, killing seven people.
Like the owner of a costly but temperamental car who keeps trying to make do, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has invested more than $5 billion since the accident to rebuild the nation's fleet of winged spaceships and enhance the safety of hundreds of parts and systems, including the flawed engine and its leaky seal that doomed Challenger. And it has successfully flown 49 shuttle missions since then, no small accomplishment. 
 Even so, NASA officials see the risk of catastrophe as roughly 1 in 145 missions for each ship and worry that another disaster is almost inevitable. The aging fleet of four shuttles is to continue flying its wide range of science research missions for at least 10 years and become the central link to an international space outpost that is a pillar of the Clinton Administration's foreign policy. Orbital construction of the sprawling outpost is to start next year, with astronaut crews inhabiting it from 1998 to at least 2012.
Given the stakes, NASA is laboring to improve the shuttles still further and is planning a new generation of reusable spaceships meant to debut around 2005 that would be cheaper and safer to fly.
But experts inside and outside the space agency warn that the current risks are greater than generally assumed. Declining budgets and the political war over the Federal deficit, they say, threaten to erode safety and precipitate another calamity, despite all efforts to the contrary.
"NASA is again experiencing the economic strain that prevailed at the time of the disaster," said Diane Vaughan, author of "The Challenger Launch Decision," a new book published by the University of Chicago Press.
"Few of the people in top NASA administrative positions exposed to the lessons of the Challenger tragedy are still there," Ms. Vaughan said. "The new leaders stress safety, but they are fighting for dollars and making budget cuts."
Daniel S. Goldin, NASA's Administrator for nearly four years, has led a crusade to do things cheaper, smaller, faster and better, as he puts it. And breaking with predecessors, he has gone out of his way to highlight the possibility of astronaut loss, trying to prepare the nation for the worst even while insisting on a policy of cutting no corners.
"Safety is the highest priority," he said in a statement prepared for the disaster's 10th anniversary. "But human beings have always taken great risks to reap great rewards." Space flight, Mr. Goldin emphasized, "is inherently dangerous and every member of the NASA team understands those risks."
One imponderable is the political repercussions of another disaster, with experts split on whether the shuttles would survive to fly again or be retired as dangerously obsolete.
"I think we're over the period of political vulnerability, where an accident would pull the plug," said Lori B. Garver, executive director of the National Space Society, a private group in Washington that promotes space exploration.
Another imponderable is how deep budget knives might cut. In the past five years, the shuttle's annual budget has dropped from more than $4 billion to $3 billion and the main contractor work force has shrunk from 34,000 to 24,000 employees, even while the spaceships do roughly the same work, flying seven or eight times annually. In the next few years, plans call for the program's budget and ranks to shrink an additional 10 percent, and perhaps much more.
Jose Garcia, a veteran manager at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, where Challenger was launched, wrote an open letter to President Clinton in August to warn that the dollar squeeze was eviscerating the launching team and hastening another disaster.
"In their misguided attempt to economize," he said, "they have lost sight of what keeps the shuttle safe."
But many experts see the astronomical costs of running the nation's $65 billion fleet of shuttles as a drag on innovation at NASA, a faded star whose luster is just starting to return.
Bryan D. O'Connor, director of the shuttle program at NASA headquarters in Washington and a former astronaut, said the pressures were tolerable and that the winged spaceships were safer than ever before because of repairs as well as intangibles, like better communication among team members.
But he added that the Federal cost-cutting drive and the political war surrounding it were major distractions. All last week, NASA workers were unsure whether their agency would be financed and whether they would be back at work on Monday.
"There's pressure across the whole government," Mr. O'Connor said in an interview last week. "We're doing our part. We're working hard. But we also need to keep our priorities in mind, the first of which is safety. And on that score I think we're doing a pretty good job."
 
Recovering From Calamity
Most analysts agree that the Challenger disaster was partly rooted in a push to make the shuttle fleet pay for itself by carrying lots of government, scientific and commercial payloads. Pressures were intense as President Ronald Reagan called publicly for the shuttles to be cost effective.
The program made its debut in 1981, flew nine missions in 1985 and had plans for at least 24 a year by 1990. It was in that atmosphere that Challenger on Jan. 28, 1986, began its last flight, the nation's 25th shuttle mission. The spaceship roared off the launching pad at 11:38 A.M. with a crew of six astronauts as well as Christa McAuliffe, a high school teacher who was to give school lessons from space.
The fiery explosion 73 seconds later was eventually determined to be the result of a leaky 15-story booster rocket that ignited the spaceship and its tons of highly flammable hydrogen fuel. A pair of boosters, mounted on either side of the shuttle, assist the spacecraft into orbit on each flight.
During a two-year hiatus in missions, engineers made repairs to hundreds of systems that in retrospect were judged unsafe, especially the solid-fueled boosters and the liquid-fueled main shuttle engines, which work at dangerously high heats, pressures and speeds.
NASA, prodded by Federal authorities, also sought more realistic risk estimates. Before the explosion, agency officials regularly put the chance of disaster at 1 flight in 100,000 -- close to the 1-in-1 million odds often associated with commercial airline flights.
By 1988, when shuttle flights resumed, the risk of catastrophic failure during the fiery ascent to orbit was estimated at 1 in 78, analogous to a hazard over the entire mission of roughly 1 in 50. As the agency continued to spend money for repairs, and did more thorough risk analyses, safety was seen as enhanced. A detailed NASA study by Science Applications International Corporation last year put the chance of catastrophic failure at between 1 in 76 and 1 in 230 missions, with 1 in 145 the most probable number.
While reliability is rising, the study concluded, "the risk of at least one more catastrophic failure is substantial" before the shuttles are retired sometime in the 21st century.
Last year, NASA began to install a major round of improved parts for the shuttle's temperamental main engines, long viewed as highly risky. Every shuttle is powered by three of the 3.5-ton, 14-foot-long giants, and all of them throughout the fleet are to get the upgrades, which include new fuel pumps, oxidizer pumps, power heads, heat exchangers and combustion chambers. The strengthening is to be completed by the year 2000 and to cost $1 billion.
The new systems tend to have fewer parts, fewer welds and to be made of materials that are stronger and lighter. The new pump bearings, for instance, are made of a high-tech ceramic compound, which is 30 percent harder and 40 percent lighter than steel.
"Hit them with a hammer and you'll dent the hammer," said June Malone, a spokeswoman at NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala.
The upgrades are seen as eventually reducing shuttle dangers still further. Ben Buchbinder, head of hazard assessment at the Futron Corporation, in Bethesda, Md., and a former top shuttle-risk official at NASA headquarters, said the engine upgrades would reduce the overall danger of catastrophe to roughly 1 in 200 missions.
"There's a range of uncertainty," he said in an interview, emphasizing that great unknowns haunt the risk-study enterprise.
 
Wrestling With Intangibles
The shuttles now carry into space no major commercial or military payloads, which were banned after the accident and instead were put on unmanned rockets. In large measure, pressure to defray shuttle costs by carrying lots of payloads, which contributed to the disaster, is gone. But in its place is a barrage of new demands as the Government seeks to cut costs to the bone and as shuttles become a linchpin for an international space station that is meant to symbolize a new era of post-cold-war harmony.
Of late, NASA's Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel, an independent body of experts, has repeatedly noted the budget pressures and criticized the shuttle program for a laggard pace of safety improvement. It has worried especially about the skittish main engines, whose dangers have been recognized for more than a decade.
"There is a distinct possibility," the panel's chairman, Paul M. Johnston, recently told Congress, "that overzealous reductions in the work force and NASA budgets, while at the same time retaining tight schedule pressures, may introduce increased levels of risk."
After hearing testimony from private and NASA experts, Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a Wisconsin Republican who chairs the House space subcommittee, was clearly upset and edgy.
"We're not sure," he said, "that safety has not been compromised."
The screws could tighten further in the near future as NASA moves to privatize the shuttle fleet, putting virtually every aspect of its operation in the hands of the United Space Alliance. The new contractor, based in Houston, is a unit of Rockwell International Corporation, the shuttle's maker, and the Lockheed Martin Corporation, a major shuttle contractor. The team hopes to soon put about 80 shuttle contracts under its purview.
The idea of a single contractor was endorsed last February as a cost-cutting device by a NASA panel headed by Dr. Chris Kraft, an aerospace consultant and former director of NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston.
"The Challenger incident created a safety environment in NASA that is duplicative and expensive," the Kraft panel reported. "Safety is one of those terms that can be used to hide behind and prevent necessary change and innovation."
Such sentiments gall many private analysts, who charge that the Challenger lessons are quickly being lost amid the confusion of the Federal budget wars.
"We seem to be lapsing back into a lot of the bad old practices that contributed to the accident," said John E. Pike, head of space policy for the Federation of American Scientists, a private group based in Washington.
"Apart from not flying the shuttle, there's nothing that can be done to prevent another accident, but there's lots that can be done to make it happen sooner rather than later," he said in an interview. "We seem to be doing a lot of those things."
 
Reaching Beyond The Shuttle
At the urging of Mr. Goldin, the NASA Administrator, the agency is now starting to plan a new generation of reusable spacecraft that in theory will be much cheaper and safer to fly than the shuttles, whose technology is a quarter century old.
The new spaceship is based on an idea studied for decades but not feasible until recently -- soaring into orbit on a single stage. Today, all rockets and shuttles rely on multiple stages because of the need to shed weight in the struggle to overcome the Earth's gravitational grip. The progressive abandonment of burned-out stages, composed of fuel tanks and heavy engines, allows speeding vehicles to become lighter and to move faster as they ascend.
The new ship, known as the Reusable Launch Vehicle, would be light to begin with, thanks to modern electronics and materials. Its huge internal fuel tanks, for instance, would be made out of composites formed of epoxy glue and strong fibers instead of metal. Thus, in theory, the vehicle would need only itself to soar into space.
Its numerous engines, fueled by liquid hydrogen and oxygen, would be far less complex than those of the shuttle and would operate at lower temperatures, pressures and speeds, greatly increasing the ship's safety.
Rick Bachtel, head of the project at NASA headquarters, said the goal was to achieve a risk of catastrophic failure of roughly 1 flight in 10,000. "Common sense tells us it won't be as reliable as an airline," he said in an interview, "but we're trying to take a step of that magnitude."
With slim financing, NASA is studying the idea in an experimental flight program known as X-33. Three teams, led by Rockwell, Lockheed Martin and McDonnell Douglas, are working on three competing designs and the agency expects to select one of them later this year.
The first flight of the X-33 is to occur in 1999, with a decision made at the turn of the century on whether to press ahead with the Reusable Launch Vehicle. If so, test flights of the ship would occur 2004 or 2005, and the innovative craft would be operational around 2008, if everything goes as planned. Contractors are already talking about flying the ships like airplanes, regularly ferrying tourists and business people into orbit.
But experts are quick to note that in the 1970's the same kind of promises were made for the original shuttle, many of which turned out to be false. Others worry that the new spaceships may be too difficult to build, or will be far less reliable than advertised.
But space enthusiasts love them, seeing the sleek new designs as a way to nurture the dream.
"As a nation," said Ms. Garver, executive director of the National Space Society, "we must dare to accomplish difficult tasks."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Cost of Space Flight" shows the budget of the space shuttle program since its inception, 1971-1995. (Source: NASA) (pg. 20)
 
Diagrams: "Spaceships Today..." shows the shuttle's basic design is a quarter of a century old. (pg. 20); "...And Tommorrow" shows three proposed designs for a shuttle replacement. (Sources: NASA; Futron; Science Applications International; Rockwell; McDonnell Douglas; Lockheed Martin) (pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SPACE SHUTTLE; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; CHALLENGER (SPACE SHUTTLE) SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (91%); SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); WRITERS (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (53%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



738 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Weary but Unwavering

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Three weeks of picketing night after frozen night, three weeks without a paycheck to support his three children, wife and 83-year-old mother, and three weeks of seeing "scabs" do his job have dulled Jose Caraballo's enthusiasm toward striking.
When Mr. Caraballo took to the streets with more than 30,000 building maintenance workers on Jan. 4, he was as gung-ho as any of them, his anger focused like a laser at management and its demands to slash starting salaries. But now, Mr. Caraballo, 43, a building porter who once studied law in his native Uruguay, seems angry at the world -- angry not just at management but also at the cold, at life without a paycheck and at the way the union is running the strike. 
 "It's hard, tremendously hard, to live when you haven't received a paycheck three weeks in a row," said Mr. Caraballo, whose job is to haul 27 floors' worth of garbage down the freight elevator and put it out on the curb. "It's scary because I'm not able to make this month's rent payment."
As Mr. Caraballo and other night-shift workers picket their building at 20 Broad Street from 5 P.M. to midnight, with the New York Stock Exchange towering over them on one side of the street and Morgan Guaranty's headquarters on the other, the strikers often feel like pawns caught in a struggle between forces greater than themselves.
"The union should realize we want a positive solution very soon," said Mr. Caraballo, a man with deep-set brown eyes and thinning black hair. "Many strikers are desperate since they have no money to live on."
With a dazed, wounded face like the farmer's in Millet's painting "The Man With the Hoe," Mr. Caraballo stands stolidly in the cold, bundled up in a boxy green coat, a black knit cap and a purple plaid scarf that is often wrapped around his ears as well as his neck. His point of vulnerability is his feet -- his shoes are of thin leather, definitely not Timberlands.
For Mr. Caraballo and many of the other strikers, the moments of solace are few. A striker splurges for a dozen hot chocolates for the late-night pickets. Some warm air streams up from the subway grates to help thaw their toes. And a man working at one of the financial firms in the building makes his daily offering to the strikers -- sometimes coffee and donuts, sometimes soda and rolls.
Hour after hour on the picket line leaves a lot of time for worry as the strike continues. Mr. Caraballo said his wife cannot get a job to help with their expenses because she is studying for a degree in bilingual education at Boricua College. Fortunately for them, her father, a taxi driver, is giving them about $100 a week during the strike. Mr. Caraballo also receives $7 in strike benefits for each day he pickets.
"We have to watch our money very closely," said his wife, Cecilia, who immigrated with her husband from Uruguay 10 years ago. "The children are unhappy because we're not taking them to movies or McDonald's during the strike. We don't even have the money to rent videos."
His concern about his family's sacrifices has muddled his thoughts about the strike. His thinking is part hang-tough, old-fashioned militancy and part wishing that the strike had ended yesterday.
On the one hand, he is eager for the union to act more flexibly to end the strike. On the other hand, he rejects the building owners' demand to cut the workers' $573 weekly starting salary by 40 percent. Then, sounding as implacable as a grizzled union negotiator, he said that even if management were to modify its stance and propose a starting salary that was 20 or 10 percent less, that would still be unacceptable.
"Imagine what would happen," he said in hesitant English -- an Argentine-born co-worker often translated for him. "There's a good chance they would get rid of the workers with higher salaries and then replace them with two employees earning a lot less. We can't accept a two-tier wage system."
Buildings owners are promising that veteran workers will not be dismissed. But dismissal is not Mr. Caraballo's only fear; he says that cutting starting salaries by 40 percent, to $352, would push workers toward welfare. "With what I earn now, it's not easy to support six people," he said. "At $352 a week, it would be impossible."
He acknowledges that the $573 he is paid -- $445 after taxes -- is "pretty good." But Mr. Caraballo, who lives in a three-bedroom apartment in Jackson Heights, Queens, said it still does not afford him lodgings large enough for his family. "My three kids sleep in the same room," he said, noting that his Uruguayan mother has her own room.
Mr. Caraballo said he left Uruguay because that nation's economy was in crisis and job prospects were bleak.
"After I moved here, I wanted to return to school, but once you have children, you know, you have to support your family," he said. His dream, he says, is to become an X-ray technician.
But these days, he can think only of the strike. Perhaps one of the worst moments for Mr. Caraballo came when his building's owner, the Mendik Company, one of New York's largest real estate concerns, hired nonunion temporary workers and they made funny faces through the lobby window to ridicule the pickets.
"I feel very bad that the scabs are doing a job that is our job," he said.
But his anger toward them was leavened with understanding. "I understand there are a lot of people around who need a job," he said. "They're not really responsible for their situation. They're just trying to make ends meet."
Like many strikers, Mr. Caraballo admits to boredom on the picket line. He wishes Gus Bevona, president of the striking local, 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union, would do more to buoy the strikers' spirits.
As three young men dressed in blue wool overcoats and expensive suits strode past him, seemingly oblivious to the strikers' existence, Mr. Caraballo complained that everyone ignores them.
"The union should organize rallies," he said. "We all feel ignored. It would be good to get more television coverage."
While praising Mr. Bevona for sending the strikers letters every day or two, he said the union should hold a large meeting to find out what is on the strikers' minds.
"The union should at least call a general meeting to tell us what's happening and to explain the different positions between union and management," he said. "The union should hear what the 35,000 strikers think about all this and what their situation is."
Tomorrow: A building manager's perspective.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; STRIKES; LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STRIKES (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MEN (68%); MULTILINGUALISM (60%); BAKED GOODS (58%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (50%); 

PERSON: CARABALLO, JOSE; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JOSE CARABALLO (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



739 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Strokes Cost $41 Billion a Year, Study Says

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, Jan. 27

 BODY:
The medical bills and lost earnings of Americans who suffer strokes each year total almost $41 billion, a new analysis has found.
Each year, 500,000 Americans suffer strokes, and 150,000 die from them. Strokes are the third leading cause of death, after heart disease and cancer. 
 Researchers from the University of Iowa tried to add up the financial toll by looking at the lifetime cost of strokes that occurred in 1990. They calculated that the average lifetime cost of a stroke, including medical care and lost earnings, was $103,576.
The research, conducted by Dr. Thomas N. Taylor and others, was presented on Thursday night at a stroke conference sponsored by the American Heart Association.
The researchers calculated that the lifetime cost of the strokes occurring in 1990 was $40.6 billion.
While the medical cost of caring for stroke victims is high, the researchers calculated that the lost earnings of stroke victims accounted for a higher proportion of the total economic cost, 58 percent.
"Improving survival can't substantially impact the cost," said Dr. Patricia Davis, one of the researchers. "We have to get people back to work after strokes."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (57%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (57%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available STROKES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HEART DISEASE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); CANCER (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



740 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Congress Must Raise Debt Limit To Avoid Default, Clinton Says

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
President Clinton urged Congress today to "stop playing politics" and raise the Government's legal debt limit so it could borrow more money and avoid defaulting on its financial obligations.
In his weekly radio address, broadcast less than a day after he signed emergency legislation to avert a third Government shutdown in as many months, the President said an unprecedented default by the Government on its debt could lead to higher interest rates and could even halt the mailing of Social Security checks. 
 "Our unbroken record of keeping our word could end," he said, "with taxpayers bearing the cost for years to come because interest rates would go up on United States obligations.
"And for tens of millions of Americans, the unthinkable could happen: the Social Security checks they count on would not be able to be mailed out," Mr. Clinton added.
On Friday, the Senate rejected, on a vote of 46 to 45, a Democratic proposal to raise the limit on the national debt to $5.4 trillion, from the current level of $4.9 trillion.
Although the Government actually reached its borrowing limit in November, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin has used two pension trust funds for civil servants to avoid defaulting on maturing Government securities.
But Mr. Rubin has warned Congress that his options for dodging default are running out, and he has estimated that the Government will run out of borrowing power by March 1. Congress is to adjourn at the end of next week and will have no opportunity to act until it returns on Feb. 26.
Last week, Moody's Investors Service said the threat of a default could prompt it to consider downgrading its highest rating, AAA, on $387 billion in medium- and long-term debt that is coming due Feb. 29 and April 1. United States debt has traditionally been considered risk-free in terms of repayment.
In the Republican response to Mr. Clinton's remarks, Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire accused the President of inconsistency.
"While we always welcome the President's support, his sincerity about working together to fulfill our goals is too often fleeting, with no real action to back up his words," Senator Gregg said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION DEBT CEILING (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); JUDD GREGG (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



741 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Bahrain Rulers Say They're Determined to End Village Unrest

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: MANAMA, Bahrain, Jan. 27

 BODY:
After a resurgence of civil unrest in the Shiite Muslim villages that surround this capital, a leading member of the Sunni Muslim ruling family said today that the Government was determined to put an end to the violence "once and for all."
"It cannot continue," the Prime Minister, Sheik Khalifa bin Salman al-Khalifa, said of the riots, arson and explosions that broke out last weekend in a renewal of a 13-month-long confrontation between the Government and the Shiite-led opposition. 
 "These methods in a country like this will burn it all," Sheik Khalifa warned. "It will burn the dry and the green."
Bahrain, an island country of 600,000 people in the Persian Gulf, is connected by a causeway to Saudi Arabia and is the headquarters of the United States Fifth Fleet.
With hundreds of people in jail in connection with the disturbances, Bahrain has appeared relatively calm in recent days. But the arrests, including those of leading Shiite clerics, have added to political and sectarian tensions in a country where Shiites are in the majority.
The trouble began in December 1994 with the arrest and deportation of a Shiite cleric for circulating a leaflet signed by 20,000 people demanding the restoration of Bahrain's Parliament, which was dissolved in 1975.
After violence early last year that left at least 13 civilians and 3 policemen dead, there were signs that the Government might open a political dialogue with its opponents. But opposition leaders have accused the Government of reneging on a commitment to do so, and the disturbances that have resumed of late have included bombings at a shopping mall and a hotel.
In his interview today, Sheik Khalifa, whose family has ruled Bahrain for more than 200 years, did not spell out what the Government might do if the violence continued. But the Defense Ministry has said its forces are prepared to enforce martial law, and Sheik Khalifa, who is the younger brother of Bahrain's Emir, Sheik Issa bin Salman al-Khalifa, said he believed that "action has to be taken straight away to eliminate these problems once and for all."
The Government announced today that it had arrested 180 people in connection with recent unrest, Reuters reported. Earlier in the week, it had said it was holding 544 people: 174 rounded up in recent days and the rest for the protests last year. But two Government officials suggested today that the number might be higher, saying that more than 350 people had been arrested since the beginning of the month.
The main Shiite opposition group, the London-based Bahrain Freedom Movement, puts the number of detainees at about 2,000.
The most prominent person in custody is Sheik Abdelamir al-Jamri, a Shiite cleric who was a member of the dissolved Parliament. The Bahraini authorities have also announced the arrests of seven other leading clerics, and a ninth, Ahman Mansour Ali, is also reported to have been imprisoned.
All are expected to face trial on charges of inciting riots, and Bahraini officials, who say privately that there is evidence linking the attacks to Iran, have said the clerics may also be charged with taking part in a foreign-backed plot.
Although Shiites comprise only about one-tenth of the world's one billion Muslims, in Bahrain they outnumber Sunnis -- members of the rival branch of Islam, to which the Khalifa family and most of the country's elite belong -- by about 2 to 1. Shiism has dominated Iran since the 10th century, and the Manama Government has suspected Teheran of trying to stir up trouble among Bahrain's Shiites since Islamic militants took power in Iran in 1979.
Iran has denied any involvement in the unrest here, and the daily Iran News said on Monday that Bahrain was using Teheran as a scapegoat to justify its refusal to grant political rights to its people. It said that Bahrain's ruling family had "denied its people even the most basic semblance of democracy -- Parliament -- through which they could have a say in shaping their future," and that it was only natural that "mass dissatisfaction and civil disturbance should be the outcome."
But other regional leaders, including President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, have suggested foreign involvement in the unrest here, and today Sheik Khalifa came as close as any Bahraini official has to publicly pointing the finger at Tehran.
"These people had studied in Iran," the Prime Minister said in describing many of those under arrest. "What did they study, how they have been trained, how they have been contacted, their confessions -- all this will come out in court."
Unlike its Gulf neighbors, Bahrain produces no oil of its own, and mounting unemployment, particularly among the Shiite majority, is clearly a major cause of discontent. In Shiite villages like Bani Jamra, one of the sites of this week's unrest, anti-Government graffiti demand jobs and the overthrow of the Khalifa family.
Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of daytime fasting, began last Sunday, and many here say that the slower pace it traditionally brings has helped quell the violence. In Bani Jamra this afternoon, the streets were almost deserted, and the few residents who were outside the closed doors refused to talk with a foreign reporter.
By today, the riot policemen who were dispatched last weekend to Shiite villages had been withdrawn, although a police convoy was moving conspicuously through Manama on its way to what officials said was an exercise.
The Bahraini officials made clear that they were no mood to give in to their critics' demands as a way to win a permanent end to the violence.
"Yes, the Western countries and the people here talk about democracy," Sheik Khalifa said. "We are not afraid of democracy. We are afraid of the people who would misuse it."

GRAPHIC: Maps of Bahrain highlighting Bani Jamra: Bani Jamra protesters are seeking democratic representation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BAHRAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHRAIN; MANAMA (BAHRAIN); BAHRAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SHIITE MUSLIMS; ISLAM; VIOLENCE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); RELIGION (92%); ARRESTS (90%); RIOTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); ARSON (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); DEPORTATION (66%); 

PERSON: KHALIFA BIN SALMAN AL-KHALIFA (SHEIK) (PRIME MIN); JEHL, DOUGLAS

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



742 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Gramm Brings Fiscal Message To the Kitchen Tables of Iowa

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: MARION, Iowa, Jan. 25

 BODY:
Senator Phil Gramm came here this morning for coffee, banana bread and an intimate chat with the Steffeck family around their dining table. But the four towheaded Steffeck children were nowhere in evidence.
"I don't know where our kids are," said Laura Steffeck, peering up from the table past two dangling microphones and into the shifting, murmuring mass of two dozen reporters and campaign workers. "Can they get through?" 
 With the children produced and the coffee poured, Mr. Gramm commenced to do what he has done at kitchen tables across Iowa this week: lecture the family on economics.
"In the five years since 1950 that we've had a balanced Federal budget, prime interest rates averaged three and a half percent," he said, speaking loud enough to reach past the Steffecks clustered at the table to the reporters spilling back into the living room.
Lamar Alexander may have his red-plaid shirt, but Phil Gramm has come up with a trademark gimmick in his bid for the Republican Presidential nomination that he believes powerfully conveys his program for "kitchen table economics." He outlines the program at kitchen tables.
Politicians talk about the budget "in an environment which to most people is totally artificial," Mr. Gramm explained to the Steffecks, describing his epiphany. "And so it suddenly struck me: Where do most people make their budget decisions, and make the hard choices in their family life?"
The answer: "Right at their kitchen table."
He may be trying to eliminate artifice, but Mr. Gramm's effect can be to bring political kitsch into the kitchen. It does not help that his largely untouched cup of coffee tends to share space on the table with a bouquet of half a dozen microphones, accompanied by a few small black tape recorders like so many sinister brownies.
It also does not help that Mr. Gramm, dressed in a gray suit and white shirt, can sound less like a neighbor than like the economics professor he was in his home state of Texas, or the candidate he is.
At the Cox home in Dubuque on Tuesday, Drew, age 11, timidly asked: "I mean, what's it going to be like in the future?-- Is there going to be all these gangster people running around?"
Mr. Gramm paused, then began, "Well, let me say that I'm very concerned about violent crime."
At each stop, Mr. Gramm exchanged some niceties with the families, admiring their homes and inquiring about their jobs. When he discovered at a home in Ankeny that his host, Jeff Behan, worked as a mechanical engineer for John Deere, he declared:
"One of my dreams is to someday have a John Deere tractor with a front-end loader. And I want what's called a Rhino bush hog."
He added, "I want to run over and tear up things that a conventional bush hog will not mow down."
Mr. Gramm tested his kitchen-table technique in New Hampshire and South Carolina. This week, he brought it to Iowa for the first time, accompanied by a black-and-white chart with a remarkably precise breakdown of "What a Balanced Federal Budget Would Mean to Iowans." It lists, for example, "$2,067 savings on a six-month loan" and "$1,099 savings per year on a 30-year mortgage."
"Here is the point," Mr. Gramm told the Steffecks and their increasingly restive children. "For the last 25 years, the Federal Government has borrowed 50 cents out of every dollar that's been saved in America. That's 50 cents out of every dollar that has not gone to build a new home, a new farm, a new factory, to generate new economic growth."
Although he remains back in the pack in polls, Mr. Gramm's facts and figures clearly impressed the four families he visited this week who were selected by the Gramm campaign because they were undecided.
"I just didn't realize how strong he was on positions I care about," Mrs. Steffeck said later. "He just doesn't seem to be getting his message across real clearly, maybe, to people like me."
The children, she added, "were a little nonplussed." She said she and her husband were also considering Patrick J. Buchanan and Alan Keyes.
Mrs. Steffeck, who brewed an extra pot of coffee for reporters, said she did not mind having so many strangers track snow through the house. "It's used to thousands of kids," she said of the house. "Nothing was broken."
Still, one cameraman, losing control of his tripod, knocked an angel cut from a paper plate from its perch in an ivy plant. As the crowd poured out of the house, the angel was still lying on the floor, behind a speaker.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Phil Gramm is emphasizing economics on a personal basis in his campaign, which he does in talks with families. Mr. Gramm recently spoke with Brenda and Carey Hobbs at the Drake Diner in Des Moines. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); POLITICS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); PRIME RATES (70%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); VIOLENT CRIME (50%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES PHIL GRAMM (93%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



743 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: Many Exchange a Briefcase For the Sample Case of Sales

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
To sell vitamins and shampoo to friends and neighbors, Sharon Killion Morton quit her job as an advertising sales representative for USA Today, where she made $110,000 a year and drove a company Mercedes-Benz.
Bill Dorr, who lost his job as a Wall Street investment banker in a cutback, now peddles a discount long-distance telephone service to former co-workers. 
 And Dr. Robert Greene, an internist, has had such success selling products like In-Vigor-Ol, an herbal energy tonic, that he plans on becoming a gentleman physician, seeing just one or two patients a day.
All three of these people are part of a most unlikely trend: professionals and white-collar executives who have joined the ranks of direct selling popularized by companies like Tupperware and Mary Kay Cosmetics. Where once this work was the province of stay-at-home wives who added a few hundred dollars a year to the family income, the new recruits dream of six-figure earnings and freedom from the seismic upheavals that have riven the world of traditional work.
"We're seeing a much more highly educated group of people coming in," said Neil H. Offen, president of the Direct Selling Association, a trade group in Washington. "We're seeing a lot of middle-management executives who've been laid off because of corporate downsizing. The American reality of 'you work hard, play by the rules and your talent will get you to the top' is not true anymore in the corporate world."
The number of Americans involved in direct sales rose 34 percent from 1990 to 1994, to 6.3 million from 4.7 million, figures from the Direct Selling Association show. A sharp increase in the number of men in the ranks -- the figure was 10 percent in 1992; by 1994 it was 24 percent -- is evidence of the influx of white-collar workers, Mr. Offen said.
Most of the selling is done part time, usually from people's homes but increasingly in the workplace. White-collar recruits speak of wanting to cushion themselves from corporate job-slashing, provide for a secure retirement and enjoy more time with their families.
But many are likely to be let down; according to Mr. Offen's group, 90 percent of those who sell earn less than $5,000 a year. And many direct-sales companies have been accused by prosecutors of shady practices, including violating anti-pyramid laws and making false claims about "miracle" products.
"At first I was skeptical, but I kept hearing how much money has been made this way," said Mr. Dorr, a former managing director in the fixed-income department of Bear, Stearns & Company.
The appeal of direct selling to executives like Mr. Dorr comes largely from the earnings potential of multilevel marketing, a compensation system in which people profit not only from their own sales but also from the sales of others they bring into the company.
Mr. Dorr, 55, tries to persuade people to switch their long-distance carrier to Excel Telecommunications, a small company based in Dallas, and, more important, to become Excel sales representatives like him. He earns commissions on the phone bills of the customers he signs up, as well as on the bills of customers signed up by the sales representatives he recruits, and their recruits' customers, and so on.
With a network spreading from the top down and commissions flowing to each person higher up the chain, multilevel marketing -- MLM, in the industry shorthand -- has created millionaires, but it has also drawn government lawsuits when companies have veered too close to illegal pyramid schemes.
Most states say an illegal pyramid exists when recruits do not go forth to sell a concrete product, but only to gather more recruits, who typically must pay a fee to join the company.
"Every illegal pyramid is an MLM company," said Robert Ward, a Michigan assistant attorney general. "But not every MLM is an illegal pyramid."
The ranks of multilevel marketers include the Fortune 500 giants Amway, founded in 1959, and Mary Kay, founded in 1963. Of the 140 member companies in the Direct Selling Association, the majority are multilevel marketers.
The Shaklee Corporation, a maker of nutritional and personal-care products sold through multilevel marketing, says that about 20 percent of its several thousand sales leaders come from the ranks of professionals and corporate executives.
"It's a factor of what's happening in the economy," said Karin D. Topping, a Shaklee spokeswoman. "People are looking for alternatives, knowing there is no secure job."
Ms. Morton, a Fort Worth resident who resigned from USA Today to sell Shaklee products, complained of her old job: "It was real frustrating. There was the constant pressure of sales quotas. They were always reorganizing sales categories and sales territories."
Paula Cook-Ehrlich worked as an executive in the airline industry until five and a half years ago, when she became a distributor for Nu Skin International, a maker of skin-care and nutritional products.
Ms. Cook-Ehrlich, 46, is a "blue diamond" distributor for Nu Skin, the highest sales level. The company, which is based in Utah, says blue diamonds earn an average of $704,000 a year in commissions.
"In five and a half years, I'm living a life style people couldn't imagine," Ms. Cook-Ehrlich said by telephone from her home on an island in Miami's Biscayne Bay. She said Nu Skin had attracted many doctors to its sales ranks because of the way managed care was eroding doctors' incomes and autonomy.
Dr. Greene, the internist, said he began selling high-fiber weight-loss drinks and anti-wrinkle creams for Rexall Showcase International because he wanted the financial freedom to spend more time with his children, ages 10 and 16, at their home in Bedford, N.Y.
"It's the life style that attracts me to this," said Dr. Greene, 49. Colleagues have taken to calling him Mad Dog because of the tenacity with which he solicits patients and friends to become Rexall distributors. A percentage of their profits, of course, would pass up to him.
"This is hot stuff," Dr. Greene is likely to tell patients who come in to his two Westchester County offices.
"I ask everybody, 'Are you interested in looking at this?' " he said. "If they say no, I say: 'Fine, give me permission to call you back in three months. We never know where life leads us. You may be fired, your company may go out of business, and besides that, I'd like to share with you my success.' "
Until a year ago, Dr. Greene had been merely a doctor, not a salesman, but he said he had not found it hard to sell packaged goods. Any embarrassment, he said, is quickly dissipated "just from the fact I'm $90,000 richer." That is the sum he said that he, his medical partner, Dr. David Ennis, and Dr. Ennis's wife, Laurie, had made together representing Rexall, which bought the name of the former drugstore chain.
Doctors and dentists who engage in multilevel marketing present a special case, medical ethicists say, because of the trust patients normally place in them. Some angry patients have been known to switch practitioners when asked to buy a product in the examining room.
New York State regulators say no state laws prohibit medical professionals from selling a line of goods out of their offices. Problems would arise, they say, only if a dentist, for example, recommended a remedy for an ailment that he was not licensed to treat, like heart disease.
Dr. Lewis Kulik, a dentist in Manhattan who sells Rexall remedies, said he generally advised patients first to consult a physician for nondental ailments. But in the case of a patient made anxious by dental work, Dr. Kulik offers Calmplex 2000, a Rexall herbal product that is billed as reducing tension. "If they feel it will help them, they might want to purchase a box," he said.
The American Dental Association, in its code of ethics, says the sale to patients of dental products from which dentists profit is not prohibited. But last year, partly in response to the rise of multilevel marketing, the association warned dentists not "to exploit the trust inherent in the dentist-patient relationship for their own financial gain."
Companies that use multilevel marketing are hoping that the influx of distributors like Dr. Kulik and Dr. Greene will raise the image of the field, which has a history of scams and fly-by-night operators. Mr. Ward, the Michigan assistant attorney general, says the average multilevel marketer remains in business just 18 to 24 months.
The field has also been known for inflating claims about its products and the earnings a distributor can expect to make.
"They often represent that they have miracle products," said Larry Hodapp, a senior lawyer at the Federal Trade Commission. "This seems to appeal to MLM's, the fact that it's a medical breakthrough that will result in astronomical growth for the company."
The maker of an herbal concoction called Juice Plus sold by multilevel marketing once employed O. J. Simpson to testify that it cured his arthritis.
In 1994, Nu Skin paid $1 million to settle charges by the Federal Trade Commission that it exaggerated the effectiveness of its Nutriol baldness remedy and Face Lift wrinkle cream, and that it overstated the income that distributors could expect. Nu Skin released data showing that the bottom 70 percent of its distributors cleared an average of just $311 in commissions in 1994.
"One of the biggest problems in the field is outrageous earnings claims," said Mr. Offen of the Direct Selling Association, which requires members to adhere to a code of ethics. Updated in 1993 in response to government cases against the industry, the ethics code prohibits income misrepresentation and "inventory loading" -- encouraging distributors to buy a basement full of products to reap a higher commission. Much of that merchandise never gets sold.
Mr. Offen said the turnover rate in multilevel sales is high; as many people drop out as join up in a given year. Based on a survey his trade group commissioned, only 6 percent of those in the business pursue direct sales full time. Of those, 1 out of 10 makes more than $100,000 a year.
"Anybody who says it's easy to make big money in direct selling is lying," Mr. Offen said. "It takes hard work, lots of effort. But it is a wonderful opportunity, where 1 out of 10 who go full time are making $100,000."
C. Steven Baker, the director of the Chicago regional office of the Federal Trade Commission, expressed skepticism. "They tell you you can get into these things part time and as you go it'll become full time," he said. "But people find no matter how hard they do it, they can't give up their day job."
Despite the industry's controversies, many experts expect its ranks to grow. "Over the last five to 10 years, there's been a lot of downsizing, and people have been taking early outs," Mr. Ward said. "They don't want to work for somebody else because that somebody else let them down."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Looking for a less frustrating, less frantic way to make a living, Sharon Killion Morton gave up a six-figure income and a job selling newspaper advertising to sell Shaklee nutritional and personal-care products. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MARY KAY HOLDING CORP (69%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (60%); DIRECT SELLING ASSOCIATION (55%); DIRECT SELLING ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIRECT SELLING ASSOCIATION (55%); DIRECT SELLING ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available SALES FORCE (90%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (90%); DIRECT SALES FORCE (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (76%); TRENDS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); COSMETICS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (56%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL DORR (76%); NEIL H OFFEN (65%); SHARON KILLION MORTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



744 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2158 words

HEADLINE: War Crimes Tribunal on Bosnia Is Hampered by Basic Problems

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Croatia, Jan. 26

 BODY:
The international tribunal investigating war crimes in the former Yugoslavia is facing fundamental problems that could undermine its ability to bring suspects to justice, lawyers and human rights officials assert.
One of the most pressing problems is the possible departure of the chief prosecutor, Richard Goldstone, a South African jurist whose independence and drive is credited with reinforcing Washington's decision to make war crimes prosecutions a cornerstone of the Dayton peace accord signed last December. 
 Mr. Goldstone, who met with Clinton Administration and United Nations officials in Washington and New York this week to try to iron out some of the problems, has said he must be back in South Africa by June or July. Lawyers familiar with the tribunal's work say that it is vital for the panel to show momentum in the next several weeks and that they are concerned about its fate if Mr. Goldstone leaves.
Even as the Clinton Administration offers intelligence material and the tribunal haggles with NATO over how its forces in Bosnia will help, the panel is trying to resolve other urgent questions, including these:
*How can the leaders of Serbia and Croatia, obliged under the Dayton accord to cooperate with the tribunal, be persuaded to send the indicted war criminals they harbor to The Hague, where the tribunal sits?
*How can suspects be arrested, given the opposition from the Pentagon and NATO to having their soldiers in Bosnia make the arrests?
*What headway can the tribunal make in investigations only now beginning of Serbian paramilitary leaders whose troops are accused of committing many of the worst atrocities?
*How aggressively can the investigations into President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia and President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia be pursued now that they have signed the Dayton accord and are needed to help keep the peace?
Created by the United Nations in 1993 after the Balkan war stirred outrage because of the worst atrocities in Europe since World War II, the tribunal makes its own decisions on who to pursue and how to investigate them. Its 11 judges from 11 countries, including Judge Gabrielle Kirk McDonald of Texas and the president of the court, Judge Antonio Cassesse, a distinguished jurist in international law from Italy, have developed their own trial procedures.
Nearly 150 lawyers, analysts, investigators, translators and clerks, including a core group of about 20 American attorneys and F.B.I. agents on loan from the Justice Department, work for the prosecutor under fortress-like security at a triangular building at The Hague. Formerly an insurance company headquarters, the space has been renovated into an ultra-modern courtroom and office suites.
About 50 investigators are divided into nine teams assigned to particular targets. A special team was created last year to look into the three leaders, Mr. Milosevic, Mr. Tudjman and President Alija Izetbegovic of Bosnia, but it has made little headway, according to tribunal officials.
So far, the court has indicted 52 people -- 45 Serbs and 7 Croats -- on charges of genocide and crimes against humanity. Only one of the 52 is in custody, a Bosnian Serb, Dusko Tadic, a relatively small fish. Arrested in Germany in 1994, he is charged with the deportation of Muslim civilians to the Omarska camp near Prijedor in northwestern Bosnia and the rape and murder of prisoners there.
 
The Judge Problem
Change Could Harden Serbia's Attitude
Mr. Goldstone said he made clear from the moment he agreed to be the chief prosecutor that he would eventually have to leave to resume his position on the newly formed South African Constitutional Court. He said President Nelson Mandela had agreed for him to take a maximum two-year leave of absence, which ends in July. His absence from South Africa is an increasing political embarrassment for Mr. Mandela, who must appoint an interim judge every three months to fill his empty chair, Mr. Goldstone said.
Mr. Goldstone was known during the closing era of white rule in South Africa for heading a commission on political violence and issuing a tough report on senior police officials, and he says his personal priority is still South Africa. But in the last few days Mr. Goldstone has said he would consider staying on if a successor was not found.
Some supporters of the tribunal say they were concerned about whether a replacement could be found who had as much symbolic value as Mr. Goldstone and who could also pass muster at the United Nations Security Council, which must approve any appointee. It took more than six months to find Mr. Goldstone after Russia and Muslim countries scuttled other possibilities.
A Serbian attorney said it was important for Mr. Goldstone to continue if there was to be any hope of getting the Serbian Government to cooperate. "Milosevic doesn't care about The Hague because he doesn't think it will happen," said Srdja Popovic, a lawyer who defended members of the Milosevic Government before falling out of favor and being forced into exile in the United States. "If Mr. Goldstone goes it will be another signal for Milosevic not to worry."
 
The Cooperation Problem
Zagreb Won't Blink And Belgrade Stalls
The key to getting Serbia to arrest and extradite its suspects, according to lawyers and diplomats, is to convince Croatia to do so first. But Croatian officials complain that it is unfair to pressure them without doing the same to the Serbs.
"Milosevic will never cooperate unless Tudjman does," said Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, an organization based in New York. "If the West's golden boy doesn't cooperate, why should Milosevic?"
Mr. Roth said Washington and Western Europe had leverage on Mr. Tudjman, who has good relations with Germany and Washington and is eager to be admitted to European institutions.
The Croatian Deputy Foreign Minister, Ivan Simonovic, said in an interview that Croatia "wants to cooperate" but that his Government is not satisfied that equal pressure is being put on Serbia to surrender its indicted suspects.
"Legally there is no question under the peace agreement that every country is bound to cooperate with the tribunal," said Mr. Simonovic, who is also a law professor and who met with Mr. Cassesse when the judge visited Zagreb in mid-January to press for the extradition of the seven Croats. "But we think it's unjust toward Croatia and the federation that we have to cooperate first."
It is conceivable that Croatia will "blink first," Mr. Simonovic said. "But first we expect more pressure on the other side by the international community."
The Croatian Government was under "tremendous" pressure from its public not to give up the seven indicted Croats while three prominent Serbian military officials indicted for atrocities against Croats at Vukovar in 1991 remained free, he said.
Officials at the tribunal said last week that they had turned down offers by Croatia to give up the seven on the condition they were tried in Croatia and could serve sentences there.
Belgrade continues to stonewall the tribunal, Mr. Goldstone said. A meeting between Mr. Cassesse and Serbian officials in Belgrade last Tuesday apparently failed to gain any important result. On Thursday, however, the Bosnian Serb leadership, apparently under pressure from Mr. Milosevic, said it would allow international investigators to visit mass grave sites in their territory.
Belgrade has ignored requests to arrest the Bosnian Serb leaders, Gen. Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic, both indicted on charges of genocide for the killing of thousands of Muslim civilians at Srebrenica, tribunal officials said.
Even on simpler matters, such as allowing the tribunal to open a liaison office in Belgrade, the Milosevic Government has balked. Belgrade has also refused to pressure Bosnian Serb officials to permit the court-appointed defense attorney for Mr. Tadic, the only indicted suspect to be arrested, to go to the site of the Omarska camp.
That was a ploy to frustrate the tribunal, lawyers said. If Mr. Tadic's attorney cannot visit the site, the trial will not be able to go ahead in March as scheduled.
Tribunal officials insist that one of the reasons the list of indicted looks lopsided -- no Muslims are on it -- is that investigators have been denied access to Serbian witnesses of atrocities committed by Muslims.
"I cannot say that we have ever received or are we receiving the cooperation we are entitled to from the Government of Serbia and Montenegro," Mr. Goldstone said at NATO headquarters this month. "Nothing has changed since the Dayton agreement, even though it commits the signatories to help detain indicted war criminals and insure their speedy transfer to the international court in The Hague."
If Serbia does not cooperate, the Dayton agreement stipulates that international economic sanctions can be reimposed. Diplomats said that if Croatia did not cooperate it would be barred from the Western financial and political institutions it hopes to join.
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. John Shalikashvili, has strongly opposed having American soldiers arrest General Mladic and Dr. Karadzic, an official close to the tribunal said.
Spooked by the deaths of 18 American soldiers who were killed while trying to capture a warlord during the American mission in Somalia, General Shalikashvili is reported by Washington officials to be adamant on the issue. The arrests of popular Bosnian Serb leaders or even rank-and-file officers could bring retaliation against NATO forces, Pentagon officials have said.
While in Washington, Mr. Goldstone was trying to clarify what the tribunal would be getting from Defense Secretary William J. Perry's offer to provide electronic intercepts made by intelligence agencies during the war. Such conversations, especially between Serbian commanders, could provide corroboration for witness testimony.
But a Washington official who has access to the Administration's intelligence on Bosnia and who visited The Hague this month said that promises by the C.I.A. in December to provide more satellite imagery and intercepts "still had a way to go to make it work."
To obtain evidence against Mr. Milosevic, the tribunal's prosecutor's office has suggested that the most likely route is through an associate "spilling the beans."
 
The Evidence Problem
Finding Witnesses Proves Difficult
"My impression is that the tribunal has not forgotten about Milosevic but I don't think he is the highest priority now," said a Western diplomat.
This was a polite way of saying that while the tribunal is independent, it also operates in an intense political atmosphere. Even human rights officials, who say the tribunal's job will not be complete unless Mr. Milosevic is fully investigated and then presumably indicted, say they are willing to allow for a grace period.
Mr. Milosevic's cooperation on sensitive issues like bringing Serbian-held Sarajevo suburbs under Bosnian Government control and insuring Bosnian Serb military compliance is needed in these early stages of the peace agreement, said Mr. Roth of Human Rights Watch.
Before concentrating on Mr. Milosevic and any role he may have had in directing and organizing war crimes, investigators are now beginning to focus on two notorious Serbian paramilitary leaders, Zeljko Raznatovic, known as Arkan, and Vojislav Seselj. They believe that through these two the chain of command could reach Mr. Milosevic.
Lawyers familiar with the tribunal offer several explanations of why it has taken so long to pursue the trail of two men accused of being among of the most vicious proponents of "ethnic cleansing." First, they say, the tribunal spent enormous time and resources firming up the evidence for the indictments of General Mladic and Dr. Karadzic. Second, obtaining witnesses against these two paramilitary leaders has proved difficult.
"They are so notorious that witnesses would say, 'Arkan's people were here, Sesjil's people were there,' " said a lawyer familiar with the cases, explaining that while many acts of violence were attributed to the two, many accounts by witnesses were vague. "To get hard evidence is more difficult than seemed at first blush."
The reason that the indictments of General Mladic and Dr. Karadzic are so strong, the lawyer said, is that the two men could be clearly identified through their physical presence at and near the sites of killings at Srebrenica, a United Nations "safe area" that was captured by the Bosnian Serbs this summer. There is a view at the tribunal, the lawyer said, that to obtain an indictment and then a conviction it is necessary to tie a suspect to a particular incident.
If that view prevailed, indictments of Arkan, of Mr. Sesjil and, especially further up the line, of Mr. Milosevic, could prove very difficult, the lawyer suggested.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Goldstone, chief prosecutor for the war crimes tribunal, plans to leave this summer. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 1); A woman dried her laundry yesterday in front of a schoolhouse near Srebrenica, where Muslim prisoners were reportedly kept before being taken out and killed in nearby woods. The killings around Srebrenica are being investigated by the war crimes tribunal. (Reuters) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); EUROPE (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (92%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; TREATIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT WAR CRIMES (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARRESTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (78%); JUDGES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); POLITICS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (69%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; GOLDSTONE, RICHARD J (JUDGE) ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



745 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: WHITMAN'S BUDGET CALLS FOR A DROP IN STATE SPENDING

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 27

 BODY:
After two years of cutting taxes while increasing state spending, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman will chart a different course in her third state budget, by reducing overall spending, if only slightly, through cuts in almost every state agency.
The Governor's $15.98 billion spending plan, outlined today by senior administration officials, is $124 million lower than the budget for the current fiscal year, which ends June 30. That amounts to a spending decrease of less than 1 percent. 
 Mrs. Whitman, who will formally present her budget proposal to the State Legislature on Monday, has cemented her reputation as a tax cutter by fulfilling her campaign promise to reduce income-tax rates by 30 percent, a year ahead of schedule. But she increased state spending by $700 million. In this budget, Mrs. Whitman moves forward on her other campaign pledge to help pay for the $1.2 billion tax cut with further reductions in government spending.
State colleges and universities would face cuts in some cases. Mrs. Whitman will try to save $26 million in the state's prescription program for the elderly by requiring higher co-payments and possibly removing from the program 30,000 senior citizens whose liquid assets exceed $50,000.
And she is seeking $11.7 million in new revenues by raising or introducing fees -- for instance, charging welfare recipients for services like day care. She also wants to extend the state sales tax to wrapping supplies and prewritten computer software.
As in previous years, the Governor's plan also calls for layoffs. The state work force of 62,740 would shrink by 1,220 -- 814 through layoffs and 406 through attrition.
However, school spending for poorer urban districts would rise a total of $60 million as part of the administration's effort to comply with court rulings requiring parity among school districts. But for 63 school districts with the highest administrative costs, school aid would be reduced by $6.6 million. And state aid for municipalities would remain at current levels.
Senior Whitman administration officials began dribbling out information about the new state budget on Thursday when they made public their revenue assumptions for the new fiscal year, and continued today when they presented broad outlines of the Governor's spending proposal without providing details such as the impact that the proposed cuts would have state programs and services.
Amid the second-worst joblessness of any big industrial state and growing concern about the uncertainty of the regional economy, the Governor's plan assumes lower unemployment and moderate economic growth.
Tax revenues are projected to increase $152 million even as state budget officials said only this week that revenues for the rest of the current fiscal year would be less than expected. Senior officials say they do not agree with the flurry of recent reports suggesting a sudden downturn in the state's economy and a rise in joblessness.
However, Mrs. Whitman, recognizing that the state's economy needs a boost, is recommending that the Legislature spend $100 million to stimulate economic development, most of it for worker retraining.
Peter Verniero, the Governor's chief of staff, said Mrs. Whitman sought to balance the needs of various constituency groups with the interests of taxpayers. "Under that standard," he said, "this budget is both prudent and fair."
Democrats, however, were quick to criticize the proposed budget, saying it failed to account for a recent downturn in employment and consumer spending. Since taking office, Mrs. Whitman has helped balance past budgets with such tactics as substantially reducing the state's contribution to public-employee pensions. In this budget, she relies less on nonrecurring revenues, although she proposes to pull a $250 million surplus from a temporary disability insurance fund. The budget proposal also includes a $550 million surplus, to cushion against tax revenue shortfalls and unexpected spending increases.
Hyman C. Grossman, a managing director at Standard & Poor's, the bond-rating agency, had praise for the budget, saying of Mrs. Whitman: "She is on her way. The new budget is flat, year to year. She is trimming, and homing in, and eliminating waste."
Details of what impact the proposed cuts would have on state programs and services were not available today and will not be made public until the Governor's budget address on Monday. For example, it was unclear which state agencies would lose workers.
But documents distributed today, when compared with similar budget reports from last year, do indicate that the largest spending reductions will be at the Departments of Human Services, Environmental Protection, Health, Community Affairs and the Judiciary. In addition, the Banking and Insurance Departments are to be combined. Meanwhile, spending will increase slightly in the Corrections Department to pay for part of the Governor's new juvenile justice programs, including a boot camp.
State Democrats, who are in the minority in both houses, said the Governor's budget was based on unrealistic revenue assumptions. "They might turn out to be negative as time goes on as indicated by sales and unemployment figures," said Senator Bernard F. Kenny Jr., the ranking Democrat on the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee. Federal labor statistics showed a New Jersey unemployment rate of 7.3 percent in December, but administration officials say that the joblessness rate in the coming fiscal year will be 6.2 percent.
Republican legislative leaders praised the proposal and pledged to work closely with the Governor to keep costs and spending down. "We will do all we can to assist her in this effort," said the new Assembly Speaker, Jack Collins, a Salem County Republican.
Mr. Collins did not say, however, whether the Assembly supported the Governor's idea to increase co-payments or remove senior citizens from the state's prescription job program for the elderly and disabled. There was relief among some of the state's mayors that Governor Whitman did not cut state assistance to municipalities. It remains at $1.5 billion, with the administration continuing to phase out the Density Aid program, a formula created by Democrats to distribute more aid to suburban areas with high population density.
"I am very pleased that they are maintaining the same level of assistance as they did last year," said Mayor Robert L. Reiher of West Caldwell, who was working at Town Hall on his Essex County community's budget this morning. "This is what we have all been hoping for. We did not want to see state revenues decrease to local municipalities."
Despite dire warnings last year that Mrs. Whitman's decision to hold the line on state aid to cities and towns would lead to huge increases in property taxes, that did not happen last year. Senior aides said today that they did not expect their plan to lead to huge property tax rises this year.
Mrs. Whitman's spending plan does not include a new proposal to replenish an expired state fund that provides $400 million for hospital care for the poor. The Legislature did not go along with the Governor's recommendation in December to raise cigarette taxes by 25 cents a pack to help pay for the fund. The state's authority to continue drawing on the Unemployment and Compensation fund expired on Dec. 31.
 
HIGHLIGHTS: The Whitman Plan
 
Highlights of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's Budget
 
Total spending of $15.98 billion, down $124 million from fiscal 1996, a decrease of less than 1 percent.
 
Project growth in revenues of less than 1 percent, to $15.6 billion, in addition to a carryover of more than $500 million in 1996 money to make up the difference.
 
One-time savings or revenue items totalling $298 million, including $250 appropriated from the temporary disability insurance fund, and a $16 million savings through debt refinancing.
 
Highlights of the Spending Plan
 
State agency spending: $5.095 billion on departmental operations, down $138 million.
 
State work force: a reduction of 1,220 employees, to 60,477 by July 1997, with 814 layoffs -- about 200 from the Department of Environmental Protection and a loss of about 406 jobs through attrition.
 
State aid, including aid to schools, and municipalities and other recipients: $6.395 billion, down $51.8.
 
Increased school aid of $60 million, with poorest districts sharing distribution of $60 million.
 
Debt service: $466.3 million for debt service, down $3.2 million.
 
A $6.6 million cut in aid to 63 school districts that which spend more than 129 percent of the state average on administrative functions.
 
Prescription subsidies for 230,000 senior citizens: A $26 million reduction by possibly increasing co-payments or by cutting off eligibility to 30,000 elderly who have liquid assets of over $50,000.
 
Adding to the list of $3- to $5-fees that low-income families using such state social service programs as home health care, family counseling, and senior citizen services must pay.
 
State financing for state colleges and universities and county colleges will be frozen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Jersey's State Treasurer, Brian W. Clymer, spoke with reporters yesterday after a news conference to outline the state's 1997 budget. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) (pg. 29)
 
Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: New Jersey State Budget" shows the operating budget and work force figures, 1983 to 1997 (projected). (Source: Governor's office) (pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; TAXATION; INCOME TAX BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); AGING (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PRESTON, JENNIFER CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



746 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Henry Lewis, the Conductor Who Broke Orchestral Racial Barriers, Is Dead at 63

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
Henry Lewis, who broke racial barriers in the music world as the first black conductor and music director of a major American orchestra, the New Jersey Symphony, and as the first black to conduct at the Metropolitan Opera in New York, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63.
The cause was a heart attack, his former wife, the mezzo-soprano Marilyn Horne, said. 
 Though suffering from lung cancer in recent years, he continued to serve as music director of the Opera-Music Theater Institute of New Jersey and of the Netherlands Radio Orchestra, and was a frequent guest conductor for opera companies and symphony orchestras in Europe and America.
Musically brilliant and a commanding figure with the baton, Mr. Lewis since the 1960's had conducted nearly every major American orchestra -- the Chicago Symphony, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Boston Symphony, the New York Philharmonic -- as well as orchestras and opera companies in Milan, London, Paris, Tokyo, Copenhagen and dozens of other musical capitals.
In a 47-year career filled with landmark events, Mr. Lewis, whom some critics likened to Jackie Robinson, became the first black instrumentalist with a major American orchestra as a youth in 1948, the first black to conduct a world-class orchestra, in 1960; the first black to become music director of a major orchestra, in 1968, and the first black to conduct at the Metropolian Opera, in 1972.
Mr. Lewis was only 16 when he joined the Los Angeles Philharmonic. Twelve years later, he made his conducting debut with that orchestra. He then founded the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra, and was engaged as a guest conductor by top orchestras across the country.
On the strength of his rapidly growing reputation, Mr. Lewis was selected in 1968, over 160 other candidates and at the musically young age of 36, to become the conductor and music director of the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra. It was a landmark event in music, for few blacks had even made it into the orchestra pit, let alone onto the podium. It made national headlines.
Over the next eight years, Mr. Lewis built the orchestra from what critics called an ensemble of "avocational" musicians with a $75,000 budget and a season of 22 concerts, into a first-class orchestra with a $1.5 million budget, a 100-concert season and a glow of prestige that took it to Carnegie Hall, the Kennedy Center in Washington and other famed halls.
Based in Newark, a blighted city more concerned with survival than with symphonies, Mr. Lewis and his orchestra began the climb by acquiring 92 top-flight professional musicians, recruiting big-name soloists, including Misha Dichter and Itzhak Perlman, and vastly expanding the company's repertory, schedule and outreach into New Jersey's ghettos as well as middle-class communities.
While continuing to perform at Symphony Hall in Newark, often selling seats for $1, the orchestra undertook a grueling travel schedule to most of New Jersey's large communities, playing in town halls, high school gymnasiums, parks and other acoustically difficult arenas.
Mr. Lewis saw it as his goal to take good music to the doorstep of ordinary people, and in his first season he was not above drawing on the services of his wife to pull in the audiences. "I'll admit it," he said at the time. "We hid behind Marilyn's skirts that first season."
He also took the orchestra into ghettos and working-class neighborhoods for outdoor concerts. Many who attended were hearing classical music for the first time, and Mr. Lewis readily acknowledged that he changed the repertory to suit the audience.
"You can't play down to them," Mr. Lewis said. "But you can't give them an all-Brahams program at first. It's a question of building an audience. I'm not a believer in the old-fashioned attitude of a conductor and orchestra playing for themselves and letting the audience listen as a kind of favor. We do everything possible to make people feel they want to come."
Mr. Lewis was sometimes criticized for his relaxed style during a concert: he often talked to the audience, for example. "I'm always talking, exploring, consciously trying to break down the barrier between us," he explained. "I tell the people that if they want to break in with applause after an exciting movement, that's fine."
Mr. Lewis was also criticized by some blacks who said that symphonies and the repertories of Western European composers were not what impoverished black communities needed. Some more militant blacks were harsher, charging that he was trying to purvey "white" music to black people.
Mr. Lewis did not apologize for his music, though he noted that not everyone had the background or inclination to appreciate it. He said, however, that he was trying to fulfill the difficult, sometimes conflicting goals of building an internationally respected orchestra while taking music to the people.
During his colorful, often tumultuous tenure with the New Jersey Symphony, acclaim followed almost everywhere, and Mr. Lewis took on other high-profile appearances as a guest conductor.
In 1972, 17 years after the contralto Marian Anderson broke the color barrier at the Metropolitan Opera House, Mr. Lewis celebrated his 40th birthday on the podium there, conducting a performance of "La Boheme." In a review for The New York Times, Donal Henahan wrote: "Mr. Lewis proved after a rather stiff beginning that the Puccini style of broad lyricism was one he understood well and could command technically. Credit the Met with good sense in engaging him, and credit Mr. Lewis with a highly satisfactory debut."
While the New Jersey orchestra's reputation and his career as a conductor were soaring, an economic slump was hurting many of the nation's best musical ensembles, and Mr. Lewis's relationship with his members grew increasingly strained as he pressed hard to maintain a grueling schedule and high-level performances.
When Mr. Lewis resigned in 1976 after eight years as the symphony's leader, critics and insiders alike called it a case of irreconcilable differences. Mr. Lewis said he had imposed stern but reasonable demands, but members called him tyrannical. In a three-week strike that preceded his resignation, the orchestra's negotiating committee actually sought a contract clause stipulating that Mr. Lewis refrain from frowning at rehearsals and performances.
After leaving Newark, Mr. Lewis for many years was a guest conductor for major orchestras and opera companies in the United States and Europe. He conducted the Metropolitan Opera tour of Japan in 1975. In 1991, he was music director for the London production of "Carmen Jones." He also frequently conducted for recordings.
Henry Jay Lewis was born on Oct. 16, 1932, in Los Angeles, the only child of Henry J. Lewis, an automobile dealer, and Mary Josephine Lewis, a registered nurse. His musical gifts were recognized early. His mother put him at the piano when he was 5, and in parochial and later public schools he played with amateur orchestras.
But his father frowned on the prospect of his career in music, Mr. Lewis once recalled. "He wanted me to become what he called 'a respectable professional man,' not a musician," he said. "There were no Negroes in classical music then."
In junior high school, he leaped at a teacher's offer of lessons on the double bass. "Double-bass players were rare," Mr. Lewis said. "I decided to master it." He also studied other instruments and voice. His talent at the double bass won him a scholarship to the University of Southern California.
He did not graduate -- he took more than enough credits, but not in the right concentrations -- but made up for it with honorary degrees later in life. At 16, he joined the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra, becoming not only the first black instrumentalist in a major American orchestra, but also the youngest.
He remained with the orchestra until 1954, when he was drafted into the Army. He then became conductor of the Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra, based in Stuttgart, Germany, where he remained until his discharge in 1957. He then returned to the Los Angeles Philharmonic and became assistant conductor under Zubin Mehta.
In 1960, after a long friendship, Mr. Lewis married Ms. Horne, by then a well-known opera star. In her autobiography, "Marilyn Horne: My Life," (Atheneum, 1983), Ms. Horne wrote that she received many warnings from friends and relatives about problems she would face as the white wife of a black man, including one from her mother: " 'What do you want to marry him for?' Mother said shortly. 'Why can't you just live with him? Be his mistress, for God's sake, not his wife!' "
The couple, who had a daughter, Angela, often appeared in musical performances together, and were the subject of magazine articles that portrayed them as happy in their music and their marriage. The marriage ended in divorce in 1979, but they remained close friends and colleagues, Ms. Horne said. Their daughter, of Hermosa Beach, Calif., survives.
"Henry Lewis was my prophet and my teacher and my right hand," Ms. Horne wrote in her book. "I certainly would have had a career without Henry, but it was he who really led me into the paths of bel canto. He labored and sweated and did everything he could to teach me the style."
In a 1970 Carnegie Hall appearance by the New Jersey Symphony, Mr. Lewis conducted and Ms. Horne sang an aria from Rossini's "Siege of Corinth." In a review for The Times, Harold C. Schonberg wrote: "There was an animal yell from the audience, then pandemonium, followed by a rising ovation. For almost five minutes, nothing could proceed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Lewis conducting the New Jersey Symphony (The New York Times, 1971)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (75%); EUROPE (73%); NETHERLANDS (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (75%); EUROPE (73%); NETHERLANDS (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUSIC; BLACKS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); MUSIC (92%); OPERA (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (60%); BUDGETS (60%); LUNG CANCER (56%); CANCER (56%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, HENRY; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; LEWIS, HENRY (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) HENRY JAY LEWIS (97%); MARILYN BERNEICE HORNE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



747 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Tension Rises in Korean Stare-Down

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: YONGPYONG, South Korea

 BODY:
Lieut. Brad Harris kept his olive-colored gas mask ready for instant use beside him as he pointed to the gullies where he would expect North Korean tanks to be lying in wait for him.
An icy wind numbed his face as he commanded a 70-ton M1-A1 Abrams tank on field maneuvers, a bit south of the minefields and razor wire that mark the border between North and South Korea. 
 The mountains were majestic, but all in all, Lieutenant Harris allowed that he would rather be back home in Kansas City, Mo.
"My wife is supposed to be having our first baby right about now," he said, speaking through the tank's intercom system as it roared up a hill. "But this is our job, and for a soldier, this is as close to action as it's going to get."
Lieutenant Harris and 37,000 other American troops in South Korea are playing a waiting game, standing by in case of a North Korean attack, as Americans here have for decades. And this winter the border between the two Koreas, with its tank traps and minefields, with hundreds of thousands of enemy troops staring eyeball to eyeball, is more tense than usual.
The South Korean and North Korean Governments normally agree on nothing, but these days they both say there is a heightened danger of war breaking out. Most security experts say war is quite unlikely, but some are disquieted by recent military intelligence, like the discovery that North Korea has transferred 110 military aircraft to the border area.
They are also uneasy because of the virtual black hole of intelligence about North Korea. Americans and South Koreans are not even entirely sure about such basic questions as who is running the country, and they say such uncertainty makes it harder than usual to predict what the North will do.
The most common view among experts is that Kim Jong Il, the army chief, has been in effective control since the death of his father, President Kim Il Sung, in 1994. But the posts of President and Communist Party chief remain vacant, and some people voice doubt about who is really running the show.
"It's not clear whether Kim Jong Il is controlling the military elite, or whether the military elite is controlling Kim Jong Il," said Cha Young Koo, a South Korean Defense Ministry planner. "It's a little ambiguous."
The South Korean President, Kim Young Sam, has ordered his armed forces to be especially alert, and the South Korean Army has raised its readiness one notch on its "watch scale." South Korean fighter aircraft are flying more sorties, and intelligence analysts are scrutinizing more data for worrying signs.
"Are we concerned?" asked Jim Coles, a civilian spokesman for the American central command in South Korea. "Of course. We'd be fools not to be."
But Mr. Coles and others interviewed also emphasized that the indications were far from conclusive, and that there was no sign that a confrontation was imminent. Although tensions are rising, both sides have everything to lose by going to war, while they may each have a bit to gain politically by talking tough.
North Korea, for its part, denies any aggressive intentions. It warns that it is the "South Korean puppets and U.S. imperialist war-maniacs" who are creating an extremely dangerous situation.
"While trying to provoke the "second Korean war' with the backing of foreign forces, the Kim Young Sam group are claiming that the 'threat' to South Korea comes from the north of Korea," declared the official North Korean press agency. "The Kim Young Sam group, hand in glove with foreign forces, are bringing the situation to the brink of war."
Almost everyone agrees that there is one excellent reason to take the North Koreans at their word when they deny any intention of invading: by most accounts, a North Korean attack would be suicidal.
Still, South Korean and American military officers say North Korea has repeatedly behaved in unpredictable or irrational ways, and they cite several reasons for concern:
*Since last fall, North Korea has moved bombers and MIG-17 and IL-28 fighters to bases close to the border. North Korea has also moved long-range artillery, including 170-millimeter guns and 240-millimeter multiple rocket launchers, to the area near the border.
*Last fall, armed North Korean soldiers were caught infiltrating the South in two incidents, South Korean officials said. It was the first time in many years that the North was caught infiltrating soldiers, and it suggested that the North might be trying to test the South's surveillance of the border.
*North Korea has reshuffled its military leadership, retiring elderly leaders and promoting younger generals from field armies. The new commanders are regarded as hard-liners, and the army appears to have gained power in North Korea in the last couple of years.
Intelligence analysts are divided about the risks, in part because there is some counter-evidence: North Korea has cut back on winter training recently, its air sorties have dropped sharply and it has been trying to improve relations with Washington.
No one feels comfortable attaching a percentage to the risk of another war, but when pushed they give a wide range of assessments. Twenty percent risk, says one expert. Much lower, suggests another. Not at all, says a third.
A study published by the Rand Corporation last year concluded that there was a "medium likelihood" of North Korea launching an attack against the South out of desperation. If that were to happen, the study says, there would be a "high likelihood" of the use of chemical weapons by the North.
Some analysts emphasize that South Korea's explosive economic growth -- 9 percent last year -- means that North Korea's military is losing ground to the South's.
"It's got to be obvious that they aren't going to win economically," said Col. John W. Reitz, a public affairs officer for the American forces here. "So you've got to wonder if they're going to feel that they've got this great military machine and they've got to use it or lose it."
Some experts also worry that the North Korean leadership may even believe that armed clashes or a limited war might be in its own interest. These analysts say they fear that the North Korean Government might find it useful to have a crisis to blame its economic troubles on and divert domestic grumbling.
"Their actions may not be based on rational calculations, but on domestic political considerations," said Gen. Park Yong Ok, the Assistant Defense Minister for Policy. "That's why we're worrying about war."
Concerns about an attack are taken seriously, in part because North Korea has a huge army, one that could inflict far more damage than the Iraqi armed forces did.
For starters, North Korea has at least 1.25 million troops on active duty, according to analysis of population data by an American scholar, Nicholas Eberstadt. North Korea also has 3,800 tanks, 10,800 pieces of field artillery and a substantial air force of 1,620 aircraft.
As a result, North Korea's army has more soldiers and equipment than the 700,000 South Korean troops and 37,000 Americans stationed in Korea. Much of the North Korean weaponry is old and no match for the American equipment, but it is still an enormous military machine.
Aside from the fact that it may have a couple of nuclear weapons -- though perhaps no good way of delivering them -- North Korea is said to have 1,000 tons of chemical weapons, including nerve gas and blister agents. It has plenty of missiles and artillery shells that could carry chemical weapons to Seoul.
The American and South Korean troops keep their gas masks within arm's reach, but very few civilians have them.
"A nightmare scenario would be for North Korea to gas the population of Seoul," said an American military officer. "Politicians don't want to talk about it, because people can't accept that possibility."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lieut. Brad Harris, right, checking a map with Sgt. Larry Stokes during maneuvers south of the border between North Korea and South Korea. (Nicholas D. Kristof/The New York Times)
 
Map South Korea highlighting Yongpyon: Troops in Yongpyong guard against an attack by North Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (72%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH KOREAN DEFENSE MINISTRY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH KOREAN DEFENSE MINISTRY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (72%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



748 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: January 21-27;
Seeking Race-Blind Diversity

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
The University of California has a new admissions policy banning the consideration of applicants' gender and race in deciding which students to accept -- but still seeking "diversity" -- though it has proved difficult to explain. Last week the university president decided to postpone putting it into effect for a year, and it is now scheduled for students entering in 1998.
How to reach the goal? Here's a sample: 
 Between 50 percent and 75 percent of freshmen are to be selected on academic merit alone. The rest must meet academic standards and other "supplemental criteria." In other words, the university will be looking for "individuals who, despite having suffered disadvantage economically or in terms of their social environment (such as an abusive or otherwise dysfunctional home or a neighborhood of unwholesome or antisocial influences) have nonetheless demonstrated . . . character and determination in overcoming obstacles . . . ."
A task force has suggested that admissions offices could give special consideration to students who have had "disabilities, personal difficulties, low family income, need to work, disadvantaged social or educational environment, difficult family situations or circumstances, re-entry status, refugee status or veteran status." They may also seek students who have been "in special cross-cultural programs offered by the high school or community organizations, demonstrated outstanding individual effort to experience other cultures, or proficiency in other languages." SARAH KERSHAW

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; REVERSE DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (79%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FAMILY (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); REFUGEES (51%); 

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH SARAH KERSHAW (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



749 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Bronx Official in Spotlight Over School Fund Raising

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER 

 BODY:
Salsa blared from the Latin combo on the cavernous gymnasium's darkened stage. On the dance floor, through the crowd of principals and teachers stiff in their evening clothes, moved a stocky man with wiry gray hair and thick-rimmed spectacles.
Men threw their arms over his shoulder, and women bussed him on the cheek. Carmelo Saez Jr., president of Community School District 9, was the center of attention at this $35-a-head party for school employees late last year. The estimated $10,000 in proceeds would go, Mr. Saez said, to the Bronx Educational League, a private organization he founded and controls. 
 Many of the 300 partygoers were employees in the school district, which has the city's lowest test scores and a history of scandal. Some said they had paid the $35 ticket price for Mr. Saez's league event not just for fun, but to insure good will from the school board leadership, to gain support for promotions and extra teachers, to give money for after-school events, even furniture.
"What's wrong," a principal said, "is people feel if they don't, they won't get promoted, they won't get jobs." Like other critics of Mr. Saez, he spoke only on the condition of anonymity. "They feel there's a quid pro quo."
It is not clear what happens to the money brought in by the parties -- in addition to the estimated $10,000 from the December event, perhaps as much as $20,000 was raised at similar events in June and December 1994, based on tickets sold. More than a year after its founding, the Bronx Educational League, which sponsored the events, had yet to file an annual report with the state, as nonprofit organizations are required to do by law.
Edward F. Stancik, the Special Commissioner of Investigation for the New York City School District, this month began an investigation into Mr. Saez's fund-raising events, specifically to determine whether they violated a City Charter provision that prohibits public servants from compelling subordinates to make political contributions, Mr. Stancik said. The offense is a misdemeanor punishable by up to a year in jail. Mr. Stancik found evidence of irregularities in a similar investigation of several district boards two years ago.
In addition, a commission formed by Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President, and headed by a former Bronx District Attorney, Paul Gentile, has been holding public hearings on questions of ethics surrounding school districts in the borough, with particular attention to District 9.
One of the questions, commission officials said, is how Mr. Saez uses the money he raises.
Critics say he has not had a salaried job in many years and note that he spends a great deal of time in his school district office, in a position paying a stipend of only $125 a month.
Mr. Gentile said Mr. Saez's "refusal to disclose what happens to the funds, combined with his apparent lack of means to make a living, raises a very strong suspicion that these funds are diverted for personal use."
Mr. Saez responded, "I bring in a few dollars here and there," adding that "as long as I don't do anything illegal, it's nobody's business."
He lives in the Morris Heights section of the Bronx, in a comfortable but hardly lavish two-story wood-shingle house with an assessed value of $85,800. He drives a 10-year-old car.
Mr. Saez, 54, was removed from the board by Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez in 1992 after an allegation that he had improperly used district employees to make a fund-raising videotape for a private youth group he led. He was re-elected to his position on the school board the following year.
In a recent interview, he scoffed at the idea that there was anything improper about his fund-raising efforts. "You can't find a principal who says Saez called him and said, 'Sell those tickets.' " he said. "People were asking for tickets."
He acknowledged that some people think he holds the events "to pay my bills." But he described the December gathering as a "break-even affair." He paid $1,500 for the hall, a gymnasium of the New York City Mission Society, the city's oldest social services agency, society officials said. He estimated expenses for food, liquor, the band and other items at $3,500 and conceded that he had made liberal use of volunteers -- for cooking, setting up the hall and selling tickets. He refused to say how much money had been collected.
He said the event had had a financial purpose: to "establish the organization" that sponsored it, the Bronx Educational League, which he said has no funds and no employees. Mr. Saez said he had created the league to defend and advocate educational issues. But he had difficulty in citing its accomplishments.
Mr. Saez has his defenders in the district. Several principals said they felt no pressure to attend the fund-raising events, and one said Mr. Saez was genuinely dedicated to students. Yet the comments of other school officials place these events firmly within an old picture of the district, described as a "patronage mill" by Mr. Stancik in a report in 1993.
In the report, Mr. Stancik found that "numerous district employees" had been enlisted to organize and sell tickets to an event for Mr. Saez. But an investigator for the school system said Mr. Stancik had not pressed for prosecution because at the time the city's new conflict-of-interest provisions were still untested.
Other school board members in the city hold such events. But Mr. Saez holds more of them, said Mr. Gentile, the former prosecutor who is holding hearings in the Bronx. Mr. Saez has filed notice that he intends to sue Mr. Gentile's commission for libel, slander and harassment, and at a recent meeting, the District 9 board voted to do the same.
"They've pariah-cized me," Mr. Saez said. "It's affected me in my economic life. I've had difficulty finding a steady position. I can't just continue."
Born in Puerto Rico, Mr. Saez received his political schooling in the struggles to control antipoverty programs, the source of power in the South Bronx in the late 1960's and 1970's. He worked for Ramon Velez, the longtime baron of such programs, and still speaks warmly of him.
He has weathered a number of scandals over the years, personally or as a member of the District 9 board, including the suspension of all of the board members in 1988 after allegations of malfeasance.
"There are people who I've helped," Mr. Saez, a school board member for at least 20 years, said. "That's what this is about."
But one of the principals said Mr. Saez's assistance came at a price. "You're not going to go anywhere unless you're involved in any political activity he's involved in," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "They've pariah-cized me," Carmelo Saez Jr., at his Community School District 9 office in the Bronx, said of an inquiry into events he plans. (George Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BRONX EDUCATIONAL LEAGUE BRONX EDUCATIONAL LEAGUE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRONX EDUCATIONAL LEAGUE BRONX EDUCATIONAL LEAGUE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ETHICS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ETHICS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); ANNUAL REPORTS (75%); SCANDALS (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (71%); MISDEMEANORS (65%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (61%); 

PERSON: NOSSITER, ADAM; SAEZ, CARMELO JR CARMELO SAEZ JR (95%); EDWARD F STANCIK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



750 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Worker Safety Net Isn't Too Much to Ask

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Thomas Geoghegan's criticism of President Clinton's message to workers in his State of the Union Message (Op-Ed, Jan. 25) reflects a labor agenda that has held the Democratic Party captive. 
 As a Democrat who served in Congress for 12 years, I have seen too many in my party abandon the center on labor-related issues.
Democrats need to say to our union supporters that we no longer can ignore the workplace realities that face the 85 percent of American workers who don't belong to a union, especially when union interests run counter to the economic realities of the 21st century.
While Mr. Geoghegan and other union advocates speak of restoring worker dignity, organized labor would continue to deny nonunion workers the right to participate with management in decision-making.
The National Labor Relations Act makes employee involvement through decision-making with management illegal for nonunion workers. Corrective legislation has been introduced but faces a challenge in the Senate, where organized labor is urging a Democratic filibuster.
Democrats, while right to insist on a strong government role in assuring safeguards for workers, also need to recognize that the best labor policy is a strong economy. Democrats should be the party of the 21st century, embracing global markets, fiscal restraint and empowered employees. President Clinton had it right when he said: "When companies and workers work as a team, they do better. And so does America."
 
TIM PENNY
Waseca, Minn., Jan. 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (NLRB) NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (84%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (NLRB) NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (84%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR UNIONS; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); FILIBUSTER (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: PENNY, TIM BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



751 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Get 2 Pro Teams In Maryland Stirs Debate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Md., Jan. 26

 BODY:
As the National Football League season draws to an end, football has become a hot topic in the Maryland Legislature. But while in other places the debate has focused on the relative merits of the two teams in the Super Bowl, the Pittsburgh Steelers and Dallas Cowboys, here the talk is of two stadiums.
Last fall, two owners of league franchises, Art Modell of the Cleveland Browns and Jack Kent Cooke of the Washington Redskins, negotiated deals with state officials to bring their teams to Maryland, which has been without an N.F.L. team since the Baltimore Colts left for Indianapolis in 1984. 
 The Browns would move to Baltimore and play in a new downtown stadium by 1998. The Redskins would move to Prince Georges County, outside Washington, and play in a new stadium by next year.
But with the state promising $200 million to build Mr. Modell's stadium and about $76 million for new roads and parking lots around the privately financed stadium Mr. Cooke intends to build, a growing number of lawmakers are challenging the deals, saying that the state has much more pressing needs.
"This has become intertwined with every other subject in the Legislature," said Jean Cryor, a Democratic member of the House of Delegates from Montgomery County, reflecting the impact the stadium deals have had on the current session.
And it is apparently not only lawmakers who have been caught up in the debate.
"A lot of people say, no matter what their issues are, that these are tough economic times," said Dana Lee Dembrow, a Democratic delegate from Montgomery County. "Yet we're able to find money to give away to millionaire owners of pro sports franchises."
Robert L. Flanagan, a Republican delegate from Howard County, said: "I can tell you, the Howard County Center Against Domestic Violence is very conscious of the fact that the Governor has cut their budget at a time he is proposing almost $300 million for new football stadiums."
The three lawmakers and more than two dozen other members of the House and Senate have formed a bipartisan group called Tackle to fight the deals negotiated by Gov. Parris N. Glendening.
They are particularly upset over the pact with Mr. Modell, which would not only provide him a new 70,000-seat rent-free stadium but would also give him all revenue from parking, concessions and the $1,000-per-seat license fees charged each season-ticket buyer for the right to purchase the seat. The stadium would be adjacent to the city's three-year-old baseball stadium, Oriole Park at Camden Yards.
While a lawsuit filed by the City of Cleveland is attempting to force the Browns to fulfill the last three years of their lease at Cleveland Stadium, the Maryland lawmakers are proceeding with their own efforts to thwart Mr. Glendening's initiative. They are urging the State Board of Public Works to delay the sale of bonds to construct the Baltimore stadium while opponents gather support for a budget amendment that would prohibit spending state money on any stadium that is privately owned. Various opponents also plan to introduce legislation that would terminate the stadium deals or force the state to renegotiate.
Mr. Glendening, a Democrat elected in 1994, remains steadfast in his support of both projects, as are the Legislature's leaders and the entire Baltimore delegation.
Their chief arguments are that the legislation to finance a new stadium in Baltimore with revenue from four new state-run sports lotteries was passed by the Legislature in 1987 and that the road improvements in Prince Georges County had been planned long before a stadium was contemplated. Mr. Glendening also calls the projects vital to the state and local economies.
The Governor's spokeswoman, Dianna Rosborough, said that the projected $9.2 million in state and local taxes each year from the Baltimore stadium would more than cover the $200 million investment, to be paid out over 30 years.
Objections to the Redskins' stadium are less vociferous because Mr. Cooke plans to build it himself, for $180 million, and most lawmakers agree that it is the kind of development the state needs. The new stadium would be less than 10 miles from the Redskins' current home.
But opponents say the Governor's economic projections of tax revenue and 1,400 full-time jobs are overly optimistic. They also say that the annual revenue from the sports lotteries have fallen short, which might result in the need for more money for the stadium project from the state's general fund.
And other costs could arise, including previous concessions to the Baltimore Orioles, whose owner, Peter G. Angelos, has already entered into arbitration with the state over a "parity clause" in the team's Camden Yards lease with the state. It was designed to give the Orioles, who pay an annual rent of $5.4 million, the same deal an N.F.L. team would receive in an adjacent stadium.
Opponents contend that the state can ill afford to invest in football teams when communities are clamoring for more schools, roads and social services.
"This is a different decade, a different legislature and different times," said Bruce D. Poole, a Democratic delegate from Washington County, who is opposing Mr. Glendening's efforts in Baltimore.
As for the state's authority to build the stadium, he said: "Our position is that the legislation represented the wants of the 1980's versus the needs of the 1990's. This money should be used for something else."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the debate in Maryland over building two new football stadiums misstated the party affiliation of Jean B. Cryor, a member of the House of Delegates challenging the deals. She is a Republican.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maryland legislators, including from left, Dana Dembrow, Jean Cryor, Robert Flanagan, D. Bruce Poole, Rushern Baker and Sharon Grosfeld, are questioning state spending for professional football stadiums. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); CLEVELAND BROWNS; WASHINGTON REDSKINS WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (91%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (91%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (90%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (90%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (58%); DALLAS COWBOYS (58%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (58%); DALLAS COWBOYS (58%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (57%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); CLEVELAND BROWNS; WASHINGTON REDSKINS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (91%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (91%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (90%); WASHINGTON REDSKINS (90%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (58%); DALLAS COWBOYS (58%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (58%); DALLAS COWBOYS (58%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (57%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND; UNITED STATES (97%); MARYLAND, USA (97%); OHIO, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING SPORTS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (88%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); RELOCATIONS (74%); BASEBALL (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); LITIGATION (50%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; MODELL, ART; COOKE, JACK KENT JACK KENT COOKE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



752 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By JASHUA MILLS 

 BODY:

SATELLITES
Jumping Into the Ring
MCI Communications and Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation agreed to pay $682 million to the United States for the last unclaimed slot for a satellite that can beam programming directly to individual homes. The companies said they planned to invest an additional $1 billion to provide entertainment and communications services. Earlier in the week, AT&T said it would pay $137.5 million for a 2.5 percent stake in DirecTV, which beams 175 channels from satellites to home dishes.
 
COMPUTERDOM
Sliced, Pared, Cored?
Just what the future holds for Apple Computer is very much up in the air. Profits have evaporated, production and logistical problems abound, and among the various companies that have contemplated making an offer for Apple, only Sun Microsystems appears to be stepping forward -- and very much on its own terms. What Sun is prepared to offer, some insiders say, is $23 a share, which is considerably less than Apple wants and about $9 a share less than the market value.
 
THE FED
Campaigning for a Seat
Felix G. Rohatyn, the New York investment banker who dominates Lazard Freres, has made clear that he wants to become vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. A number of top business executives are lobbying on his behalf. Mr. Rohatyn would apply pressure for lower interest rates to stimulate growth, they believe. Neither Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, nor Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury Secretary, who have known Mr. Rohatyn for years, have commented on his campaign. One potential obstacle: Mr. Rohatyn opposed the re-election of Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, now chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, which must pass on nominations to the Fed.
 
TRADE
The Gap Narrows
Japan's enormous trade surplus with the United States fell 17 percent and its overall surplus 11.4 percent, reversing five years of broadening. As the surplus shrinks, trade tensions are likely to dissipate as well. Economists and trade experts expect the narrowing to continue, helped along by the strong yen, which makes imports less expensive for the Japanese.
 
BANKING A Top-Dollar Deal
Wells Fargo won the messy four-month battle for the First Interstate Bancorporation of Los Angeles, agreeing to pay $11.6 billion -- the most ever for an American bank. First Interstate had fiercely resisted the deal and had agreed to be acquired by First Bank System of Minneapolis for more than a billion dollars less. But if First Interstate shareholders make out well, as many as 10,000 of the combined banks' 48,000 employees are likely to lose their jobs, analysts said.
 
TOY STORIES
Barbie Meets G.I. Joe
Mattel, the largest toy company and the manufacturer of the perennial best-selling Barbie, wants to buy Hasbro, the No. 2, for $5.2 billion. Hasbro, whose brands include the G.I. Joe action figures and the Monopoly, Scrabble and Candy Land board games, publicly rejected the offer, saying the Government would block the deal on antitrust grounds. The combined companies would dwarf the competition with about 40 percent of the American toy market. Investors were betting that the deal would come off, and Hasbro stock soared.
OIL
The Markets Are Roiled
Iraq's stated willingness to negotiate with the United Nations over selling its oil to buy food holds the promise of relieving severe hunger in the country. But the prospect of unleashing that vast supply of oil worries other oil producers, most notably OPEC members, which are bickering over who will produce how much even without Iraqi participation.
 
BEEF
Ranchers Are Threatened
High beef prices in the early 90's encouraged ranchers to increase their herds, and now an oversupply has caused prices to plummet. That is good news for consumers but threatens to force many ranch owners into liquidation. An oversupply of pork and chicken compounds the problems of ranchers, who are now getting only 68 cents a pound for beef, compared with 93 cents in 1993.
 
HEMORRHAGES Applying the Tourniquet
Daimler-Benz, Germany's largest industrial company, said it would report a loss of at least $4.2 billion, one of the largest in business history, largely because it is abandoning its efforts to rescue Fokker, the Dutch airplane maker. The decision puts at risk thousands of jobs at Fokker, even though the Dutch Government quickly announced a rescue package.
 
WALL STREET
Half Full, Half Empty
Earnings from some of the big brokerages confirmed last year's rebound from 1994. Merrill Lynch's profits for the year were up 10 percent, to $1.11 billion; Salomon had a profit of $457 million after a loss in 1994 of $399 million. Fourth-quarter results outpaced the annual numbers -- but were less than impressive when compared with the third quarter, as the usual year-end slowdown took hold at both firms. From third quarter to fourth, Merrill earnings were up less than 1 percent, while at Salomon, earnings plunged 37 percent, sending its shares skidding.

GAMING (II)
Gulliver? Not!
 Associated Press
Ken Griffey Jr. of the Seattle Mariners is multi-cabled to a computer that tracks and records his movements, from home-run swing to home-run trot, the better to help Nintendo re-create them for a video baseball game. The technique, known as motion captures, involves putting sensors on the subject, then attaching the sensors to a computer.
 
 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 4, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Business Diary column last Sunday about earnings at brokerage firms misstated the results from trading at Salomon Inc. in the fourth quarter of 1995. Salomon had a sharp decline in profits from proprietary trading, compared with the previous quarter, but not a loss.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (93%); NWS (ASX) (93%); VZC (LSE) (93%); VZ (NYSE) (93%); BK (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (93%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); NEW YORK (57%); SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (57%); SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BOARD GAMES (85%); TOYS & GAMES (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (74%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); LAYOFFS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1996



753 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: A Valuable Voice for the Fed

 BODY:
The White House is considering Felix Rohatyn, the investment banker who helped save New York City from financial collapse in the 1970's, as a possible nominee to become vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. He would be a worthy choice, a man of stature and experience whose views might help the Fed wring the most growth out of the economy.
Mr. Rohatyn, a managing director of Lazard Freres & Company, has an unusual blend of expertise that embraces the financial, business and political worlds. He is respected on Wall Street. In the political realm, he is hailed as the architect of the financial manipulations and tight controls that kept New York City out of bankruptcy in 1975. He is among the few highly successful figures on Wall Street who back progressive causes and activist government. Yet his quest for stronger economic growth and balanced budgets has won him endorsements from the heads of many major corporations. 
 Few will challenge Mr. Rohatyn's intellect or financial sagacity. But some economists will object that he, unlike the outgoing vice chairman, Alan Blinder, has no background in the Fed's primary mission -- setting the nation's money supply in order to control inflation and dampen temporary downturns. But by that standard, almost none of the Fed board members deserved appointment. Most were bankers whose careers gave them no more experience in determining monetary policy than did Mr. Rohatyn's career on Wall Street. The Fed has a highly qualified staff to guide members through the technical ins and outs of policy options.
Mr. Rohatyn has called for policies that would lead to faster growth than either the current Fed or many economists think feasible. His views are unlikely to square with those of the current chairman, Alan Greenspan. But good can come out of such tension. Indeed, Mr. Blinder challenged the chairman over the past few years, nudging policy in a direction that in hindsight has proved beneficial.
The Fed is supposed to keep the economy growing fast enough to keep the unemployment rate low. But most economists agree that there is some point at which, if unemployment is driven any lower, the Fed would ignite increases in wages and prices. Eventually, the Fed would be forced to crack down and, as in the early 1980's, drive the economy into a steep recession.
The problem is no one knows just how low unemployment can fall before inflation kicks in. Most would say around the current rate of 5.5 percent. Others think the Fed, by lowering interest rates, could drive unemployment as low as 5 percent. Everyone on the board agreed that interest rates needed to rise in 1994 and fall last year. But Mr. Blinder wanted less steep increases in 1994 and steeper reductions last year. Hindsight suggests he may have been right: the economy has slowed, with industrial production nearly stagnant, and this week the Fed is expected to drop interest rates one more time to give the economy another kick.
Mr. Blinder's voice, then, will be missed. Judging from his public writings, Mr. Rohatyn would be a valuable replacement. Mr. Greenspan gets very high marks for his stewardship of the Fed since 1987, steering the economy through uninterrupted growth and declining inflation. Growth has been slow, but that is the fault of sluggish productivity, over which the Fed has little if any control. Assuming Mr. Greenspan is appointed by Mr. Clinton to another four-year term, he will continue to control Fed policy. But that is all the more reason to add a shrewd counterweight to the chairman's instinctual conservatism. Mr. Rohatyn could serve that valuable role.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; EDITORIALS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); 

PERSON: ROHATYN, FELIX G; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



754 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: America's Role in Russia

 BODY:
With Boris Yeltsin clumsily trying to distance himself from his reform record to placate voters as Russian presidential elections approach, President Clinton faces a delicate and difficult time in managing relations with Moscow. The days of bear hugs and political partnership with the Russian leader are over. Washington now owes Mr. Yeltsin a blunt condemnation of his drift away from economic reform, and a firm policy designed to discourage further erosion by Mr. Yeltsin or a successor.
The United States cannot determine the direction or outcome of Russia's perilous passage from tyranny, but it can use the influence it has to help Russia remain on a reform course. With Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin coming to Washington this week, and Secretary of State Warren Christopher scheduled to meet a week later with the new Russian Foreign Minister, Yevgeny Primakov, the moment has come to apply some pressure. 
 Mr. Christopher made a good start in recent days by publicly reminding Moscow that its relations with the West, and its ability to attract foreign investments and loans, depend on a sustained commitment to reform. Mr. Yeltsin, while declaring that his administration's policies have not shifted, has made a series of cabinet appointments that belie his words. The latest was the selection last week of Vladimir Kadannikov, a Russian businessman, to manage Government economic policy as Deputy Prime Minister.
As head of Avtovaz, a troubled state-owned automobile company, Mr. Kadannikov seemed more interested in protecting his business by promoting tariff barriers than in refashioning the plodding industrial giant to operate more efficiently and produce better cars. He favors increasing Government subsidies to failing industries, a step that could lead the central bank to print more rubles, setting off a damaging new round of inflation.
The Clinton Administration must make clear to Mr. Chernomyrdin that a return to Soviet-era economic policy would be self-defeating. A relaxation now of the tough monetary and fiscal policies that have brought inflation down and maintained budget discipline would throw the economy back into a free fall that was only recently stopped by four years of painful reform.
Given Mr. Yeltsin's recent behavior, and the unsettled outlook for his management of the economy, Washington has no choice but to seek delay of a $9 billion, three-year loan agreement the International Monetary Fund has been negotiating with Moscow. For now, the I.M.F. should not proceed with a loan based on commitments by Moscow to economic policies that suddenly seem subject to modification or reversal. The loan agreement can be completed later this year if Mr. Yeltsin or another Russian president once again settles firmly behind reform policies. A rescheduling of Russia's debt should also be delayed.
Mr. Christopher must be equally firm in his meeting with Mr. Primakov in Helsinki. American and Russian troops are peacekeeping colleagues in Bosnia, and other areas of cooperation on international issues continue. But Mr. Primakov can be expected to advance a more assertive Kremlin agenda, particularly toward the newly independent states on Russia's border. America must stand behind their independence. Mr. Christopher should also register impatience with Moscow's failure to carry through on agreements reached earlier this year to exchange information with Washington on nuclear weapons and nuclear materials.
Some students of Russia have suggested that Washington make a clean break with Mr. Yeltsin and declare its sympathy for reform leaders like Yegor Gaidar and Grigory Yavlinsky. The Clinton Administration does not have that luxury. Mr. Yeltsin remains the elected President of Russia. His repositioning could still prove to be more a shift in posture than policy. But the measure of American policy in the days ahead will be whether Mr. Clinton does all he can to keep Mr. Yeltsin and Russia on the path to reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); FINLAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); FINLAND (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); INWARD INVESTMENT (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); TRENDS (66%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); MONETARY POLICY (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



755 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Orders for U.S. Machine Tools Reached 16-Year High in 1995

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Orders for American industrial tools rose nearly 17 percent in December, capping a year in which orders reached their highest levels since 1979, the Association for Manufacturing Technology said yesterday.
For all of 1995, orders totaled $4.86 billion, up 3.6 percent from the previous year. "The industry also anticipates a good year in 1996," Albert Moore, president of the trade association, said. 
 Exports fueled much of last year's gain, surging 106 percent even as domestic orders slipped 4.3 percent.
In December, total orders rose to $377.5 million, a 16.8 percent increase from November, suggesting that American businesses ended the year by stepping up investment in plants and equipment. Domestic customers increased their orders by 23.6 percent from November, while demand from abroad fell 15 percent, the trade group said.
The report also showed that machine tool orders fell a revised 34.2 percent, to $323.1 million, in November. Previously, November orders were reported to have dropped by 35.4 percent.
Economists follow orders and shipments of machine tools -- used to shape and assemble metals in products ranging from diesel engines to dishwashers -- to gauge industrial output, consumer demand and business investment.
Many companies have modernization programs under way, which is raising demand for machine tools, Charles Pollock, a spokesman for the association, said. With increased global competition, "a lot of the large companies invest all the time," he said.
By category, December orders for metal-cutting tools, like drills, rose 49.8 percent from the previous month, to $280.3 million, while orders for metal-forming tools, like stamp press machines, decreased 28.5 percent, to $97.2 million. For the year, metal-cutting orders rose 4 percent while metal-forming orders increased 2.9 percent.
Machine tool shipments fell 9 percent in December, to $474.3 million, but rose 21.3 percent for all of 1995. The backlog of orders, which tracks pent-up demand, fell 4.4 percent, to $2.081 billion, during December.
Though machine tool makers are predicting a good year, there are signs the rest of the manufacturing economy is slowing down.
"Manufacturing is sluggish," David Levy, director of forecasting at the Jerome Levy Economic Institute of Bard College, said before the release of the figures. "Investment is much weaker at this point, and there's a lot of capacity out there."
For instance, industrial production rose just one-tenth of 1 percent during December as capacity utilization fell to 82.8 percent, from 83 percent in November. Without the end of a strike at the Boeing Company, the aircraft manufacturer in Seattle, the month's production would have shown a decline.
Because of recent signs of sluggishness, many analysts expect the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee to cut the overnight bank lending rate at its policy meeting on Wednesday. The Fed last cut the rate, by a quarter of a percentage point, on Dec. 19.
Further rate cuts are good news for machine tool manufacturers because they allow companies to borrow more cheaply to make capital investments. "Lower interest rates always help," Mr. Pollock said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSN FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY BOEING CO (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSN FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (82%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SHIPMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); AIRCRAFT MFG (74%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: CHARLES POLLOCK (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



756 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Patents

BYLINE: By Sabra Chartrand 

 BODY:
THE elections in November notwithstanding, the Patent and Trademark Commissioner, Bruce A. Lehman, describes his present tenure as only his first term in office. Settling into a chair for an interview at his headquarters last week, a panoramic view of the Potomac River and the capital behind him, he responded to a question about his plans for the agency with a discussion of 1997 and beyond.
"We're moving toward a new paradigm of a 12-month patent-examining process," Mr. Lehman began. The Patent and Trademark Office has three packages of legislation pending in Congress. They complete the redesign he suggested in a working paper to the Clinton transition team before the inauguration. 
 So far, Mr. Lehman has accomplished much of that agenda, but not without bitter opposition from some agency customers, chief among them independent inventors. They accuse Mr. Lehman of "dumbing down" the patent system to conform with laws in Europe and Japan, and question how he can be so sure that his redesign of patent and trademark law will guarantee the American economic boom he predicts.
All the bills are still in committee -- meaning Mr. Lehman has no idea when there might be a vote. But he discounted the possibility of defeat.
"I'm working away, talking to people on the Hill, trying to educate them," said the Commissioner, who for a decade was a lawyer with the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property.
The most controversial bill, at least among independent inventors, is the one that would make it legal to publish patent applications 18 months after they are filed, even if no patent has been issued. Opponents say this would weaken the United States patent system.
Last year independent inventors vehemently but unsuccessfully opposed a law changing the life of a patent from 17 years after it was issued to 20 years from when an application was filed. They said that made the effective term shorter because it could often take several years to issue a patent. Mr. Lehman argues that there is no real difference, because the average processing time for patents is 19 months.
Now many of the same groups oppose the 18-month publication rule because it makes work public before most inventors have patent protection.
But the Japanese and the Europeans publish after 18 months, and Mr. Lehman is an advocate of "harmonizing" American patent law with that of the rest of the world. And in any case, aides of Mr. Lehman argue, once he trims examination to 12 months, early-publication risks will become moot.
"It's important so people will know what new technologies are coming down the pike," Mr. Lehman said. Now patent applications are secret. So most disputes over inventions arise only after the patent has been issued, and anyone wanting to fight a patent often has to go to court.
Another pending bill gives greater power to third parties -- someone other than the inventor and patent officials -- to appeal a patent's ownership or initiate a re-examination of a disputed patent.
The agency is also advocating legislation that would give copyright owners exclusive rights over the digital transmission of their work and extend the "fair use" privileges of libraries, archives and nonprofit groups for the visually handicapped to include certain numbers of copies in digital format. It also suggests making it an infringement to thwart copy-protection systems, like encryption, that copyright owners use to protect their work.
Members of the World Intellectual Property Organization, an agency of the United Nations, will attend a February conference to write a treaty replacing the Bern Convention, the international copyright agreement first adopted in 1886 and last modified in 1971.
The third set of legislative proposals turns the Patent and Trademark Office into a corporation wholly owned by the Government (as part of the Commerce Department). It would continue to pay for itself through user fees, and that money would still be channeled through Congress. Congress would continue siphoning off the money, too, though Mr. Lehman would like to get Congress's fingers out of the agency's till.
Mr. Lehman said he wanted to eliminate a surcharge tacked onto fees but frequently withheld from the agency by Congress. Instead, he said all money collected should remain with the agency. "But that has to wait for the next Clinton Administration," he said.
Nevertheless, the bill would turn the agency into something of a private business.
"We'll move completely to being a results-based agency," Mr. Lehman said. "We'll measure all our successes and activities based on whether they satisfy the needs of our customers rather than checking off a checklist the Office of Personnel Management or the General Services Administration has for us."
If the bill passes, the agency will take charge of buying its own supplies, hiring its own workers and negotiating and managing its own real estate deals (the patent office is now looking for a vast new space in Crystal City, Va.)
If those changes are enacted into law, Mr. Lehman said he would have nothing left undone. And he said he had only one regret.
"If one thing is distressing to me and I wish I could change," he said, "it would be the very negative reaction of independent inventors." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (83%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (83%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PATENTS (95%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); PATENT LAW (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); TRADEMARK LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); 

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA; LEHMAN, BRUCE A (COMR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



757 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Newsprint Price Increases Might Be Limited

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: TORONTO

 BODY:
Faced with the near doubling of newsprint prices during the last two years, newspapers have compressed page widths, squeezed more content, including advertising, into smaller formats, and made their supplies stretch further by using lighter-weight paper.
Even as publishers introduced such economies to adjust to the costlier raw material, newsprint producers were reporting record profits and have even scheduled further price increases in coming weeks. 
 But the news might not be all that bad for publishers. Some analysts said the recent run-up in prices might have been too rapid and that newsprint prices could even start falling again, though not by as much as in the industry's last recession, in the early 1990's, when some producers were on the verge of bankruptcy.
Citing sluggish economic growth, weakness in the bellwether spot-newsprint market for isolated transactions and increasing production capacity outside of North America, Sherman Chao of Merrill Lynch and Chip Dillon of Salomon Brothers are among those analysts who see a broad downturn in the next couple of years.
Mr. Dillon said Salomon projected an annual rise in global capacity of 3.8 percent during the next two years, which the firm expected would outstrip both demand and the recent rate of capacity growth. "The tight supply will loosen some, and prices will come down some," he said, perhaps giving up as much as three-quarters of their recent increases.
"We're in a new cycle," Mr. Chao said. "It's fair to say that the producers who have announced their intention to raise prices by another $50 a ton will have a few hurdles to overcome."
Newsprint, which represents about a quarter of the cost of newspaper production, now costs around $750 a metric ton for large buyers in eastern North America and $765 for buyers in the West. The major producers, the biggest of which are in Canada, have scheduled increases to $796 in the East and $814 in the West, effective on March 1. As recently as December 1993, newsprint was about $390 a ton.
Large newspapers use hundreds of thousands of metric tons of newsprint annually. John Duncanson, an independent forestry analyst who advises pension funds from an office in Toronto, said he thought prices for large buyers this year could drop to $700 a ton. "Newsprint is stuck in the mud," he said.
But there is a wild card in the outlook this year -- the possibility of a strike by newsprint workers in eastern Canada, who are free to strike after May 1 as a result of a labor contract option to renegotiate wages between major newsprint producers and the Chemical, Electrical and Paper Workers Union. The sides are now far apart.
The sharp rise in prices since 1993 has prompted an investigation by the United States Justice Department's antitrust division. Bill Brooks, a spokesman, said the department was "looking at the possibility of anti-competitive practices in the newsprint industry" and that the investigation was "ongoing." He declined to be more specific.
The sharp rise in prices since 1993 followed the industry's most severe downswing since the Depression. Prices peaked in 1988 at $610 a ton, then fell for the next several years. Many of the biggest producers lost money throughout the period and shrank production capacity, closing down a number of higher-cost older mills. When demand rose in 1994, chiefly in booming offshore markets, prices shot up.
Because of faltering economic growth, which cuts demand for advertising space, and the conservation measures undertaken by newspaper publishers, consumption of newsprint actually fell last year in the United States, which accounts for more than a third of worldwide demand.
According to the Canadian Pulp and Paper Association, whose members, including some American companies, account for a third of global output, consumption by United States newspapers was off nearly 5 percent. Publishers' had a 47-day supply at the end of November, compared with 32 days in November 1994 and the more traditional level of 38 days.
Nonetheless, Fiona Cook, the association's economics director in Montreal, was not as bearish as American analysts. "Once consumers have worked down their inventories, we expect consumption to be flat or perhaps show slight growth in 1996," she said. She predicted a "positive impact" from the summer Olympic Games in Atlanta and the Presidential campaign, both of which could increase newspaper circulation and advertising.
Patricia Mohr, a vice president of economics at the Toronto headquarters of the Bank of Nova Scotia, gave the new price increases "about a 50-50 chance of sticking."
Despite the rise in inventories, supplies remain "quite tight," she said, noting that Canadian and American mills are operating at near capacity and that no new production is expected to come on line this year in North America. And recent price increases in Britain and Germany have stuck, she added, which the industry regarded as a good sign.
The reason for skepticism, she said, was that demand has weakened for other grades of paper. "You have a situation where different papers compete," she said. "It is difficult for newsprint to move up when other kinds of paper are moving down."
A key raw ingredient of paper -- bleached softwood kraft pulp -- fell in price last November for the first time in two years, to $925 a metric ton, down $75. This reflected soft economic conditions and a big inventory buildup in the fine-paper market, the principal user of this pulp.
Another Canadian analyst, Hamish Kerr of Goepel Shields & Partners of Vancouver, British Columbia, also saw brighter prospects than the American analysts. "Prices should be relatively stable in '96," he predicted, "because the capacity growth is not yet significantly above the trend line in consumption growth."
Mr. Kerr said demand in foreign markets, particularly in Asia and Latin America, would help to prop up prices. Industry figures showed that global demand rose 2.3 percent annually during the last 10 years and 1.6 percent during the last 5 years, despite virtually no growth in demand in North America in the last 10 years and an annual drop in demand of five-tenths of 1 percent during the last 5 years.
"Domestic suppliers in fast-growing markets will have difficulty keeping up with demand, insuring that North American exports will remain strong for several more years," he said.
In general, as economic conditions improve, so does demand for newspapers and the advertising they offer. Other factors affecting world demand are population growth, increased literacy rates and trends toward more democratic, consumer-oriented societies, especially in the Pacific Rim and Latin America.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Chopping Trees for Profit" tracks newsprint capacity in Canada and the U.S. and newsprint prices in Eastern North America. (Sources: Canadian Pulp and Paper Association; Goepel Shields & Partners) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (56%); MER (NYSE) (56%); 8675 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); CANADIAN PULP & PAPER ASSOCIATION (59%); CANADIAN PULP & PAPER ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT CANADIAN PULP & PAPER ASSOCIATION (59%); CANADIAN PULP & PAPER ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; LABOR; STRIKES; NEWSPRINT NEWSPRINT (95%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (93%); PAPER & PACKAGING (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); PAPER MILLS (89%); STRIKES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (61%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H CHIP DILLON (63%); SHERMAN CHAO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



758 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Spendthrift Priorities Delay Kenya's Bid for More Aid

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Jan. 28

 BODY:
When President Daniel arap Moi flew to Uganda last week for talks with other East African leaders, he traveled in luxury aboard a brand-new private jet that the taxpayers of this cash-strapped country bought last month for about $50 million.
As the jet lifted off from the airport, it banked over the rutted and potholed two-lane highway from Nairobi to Mombasa, Kenya's major port. A vital artery for business, the road is perhaps the most visible symbol of the dilapidated state of the country's infrastructure. On good days, the going is bumpy. On rainy days the road is impassable. 
 Some opposition leaders and diplomats here assert that the jet and the road illustrate what is wrong with the Government's economic priorities: a longstanding tendency among politicians to let personal prestige outweigh the public interest.
President Moi purchased the jet, a sleek Dutch-made Fokker, at the same time that his Government was seeking a $50 million low-interest loan from the World Bank to repair the road.
Since newspapers disclosed the purchase of the jet in November, Government officials have argued that the expense is justified because in the past the President has had to take one of Kenya Airway's two jets out of service every time he travels.
The airplane is one of several expenditures not listed in Kenya's budget that have jeopardized aid from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, as well as from other countries, diplomats and officials at international development banks said.
The officials and diplomats, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the jet and two other budget-busting projects of questionable worth have come up during talks this week between the Government and a joint mission from the Bank and the I.M.F. The two sides are trying to hammer out a plan for economic reform that would allow the I.M.F. to release hundreds of millions of dollars in blocked aid.
The stakes are high for Kenya, an economic engine for eastern Africa. Hanging in the balance are $200 million in direct aid from the I.M.F. and nearly $166 million in loans from the World Bank for roads and other infrastructure projects that are needed to attract foreign investment.
The talks are also being watched by Western countries, including the United States, and several have said the I.M.F.'s decision will be a bellwether for them. Only a fraction of the $800 million donor countries pledged to Kenya in November 1994 has been disbursed because of the stalled negotiations, diplomats said. Neither the I.M.F. nor the World Bank would comment on the talks.
But diplomats and people familiar with the talks say the main sticking points have been the Government's inability to stamp out official corruption and the kind of pork-barrel and prestige spending typified by the President's new airplane.
Besides the jet, the Government is spending about $85 million to build an international airport at Eldoret, the heart of the President's home state in eastern Kenya. Parliament never approved the project -- the money was tucked away in a special debt service fund in this year's spending plan. It was also hidden from World Bank auditors who scrutinized the budget until a newspaper reported its existence.
The Government has argued that the airport is needed because of an economic boom in the area. The growth there has been fueled in large part by flower merchants, who now truck their goods to Nairobi, over pitted roads, for air shipment to Europe.
In another deal done without competitive bidding or legislative approval, the Government recently awarded a multi-million-dollar contract to a French company to manufacture identification cards.
Paradoxically, the controversies over the airport and the jet come to light as Kenya has made big strides over the last three years toward improving its moribund economy.
Last week, the Government suspended a score of high-ranking port officials on corruption charges. Urged by the I.M.F., it has also eliminated import licenses, squeezed the money supply and liberalized trade.
As a result, interest rates are down, and the economy grew by 5 percent in 1995, after several years of stagnation. Inflation, which had hit 100 percent in 1993, stayed below 7 percent in 1995.
But the population continues to grow faster than the economy, local economists said. So Kenyans, with an average annual income of $1,200, are in reality getting poorer.
"It's a mixed bag," said one diplomat who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "They would not have achieved what they achieved last year if they hadn't been doing certain things right. But the question is, would they have had 8 percent growth without the corruption."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: KENYA (99%); AFRICA (93%); EASTERN AFRICA (93%); UGANDA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENYA; KENYA (99%); AFRICA (93%); EASTERN AFRICA (93%); UGANDA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); INWARD INVESTMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; MOI, DANIEL ARAP (PRES) DANIEL ARAP MOI (93%); DANIEL TOROTICH ARAP MOI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



759 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 566 words

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., Jan. 28

 BODY:
Marie Sardella kept repeating the words like a mantra when the hours in her flower shop in Walpole, Mass., grew long and frantic during the holiday season.
"That's all she said, 'I can't wait to go to St. Thomas,' " said her daughter, Lisa Cotton, 33, a travel agent. "That is her haven, her place to relax."
But the trip was cut short on Wednesday night, when masked gunmen opened fire on Mrs. Sardella and a group of friends as they entered a restaurant and bar in the East End of St. Thomas, the main island in the United States Virgin Islands. The reason for the attack is not yet known.
A bullet grazed her skull and pierced one shoulder, critically injuring Mrs. Sardella, 53. Other shots wounded two of her friends, part of a group that had vacationed for many years in a nearby condominium development called Cowpet Bay.
The shootings have brought negative publicity to the island at a time when it is still recovering from a thrashing by Hurricane Marilyn in September. The island depends on tourism to generate 85 percent of its gross domestic product, officials said.
Police Commissioner Ramon S. Davila said Gov. Roy L. Schneider had ordered the police to be vigorous in enforcing a 10 P.M. curfew on youths under age 16 and had called in agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
While unable to provide details of the case, Mr. Davila said in a telephone interview today that the police had interrogated one person and expected to make an arrest shortly.
The police are investigating the possibility that the attack was related to a dispute over efforts to move housing project residents to the East End temporarily. Residents have obtained a Federal Court injunction against the relocation, which would allow the rebuilding of housing damaged by the hurricane.
Mr. Davila was able to speak briefly today to one of the victims, William Garrity, 52, a restaurateur from Sea Isle City, N.J. Mr. Garrity regained consciousness in the past 24 hours, Mr. Davila said. St. Thomas Hospital officials declined to disclose his condition at the family's request.
Mrs. Sardella and the third victim, Walter Schenk, 58, a construction company owner from Huntingdon Valley, Pa., were flown on Thursday to the Hospital Universitario in the Rio Piedras section of San Juan. Both patients were in critical condition and remained unconscious today, family members waiting outside the intensive care unit said.
Mr. Schenk has had surgery to remove a bullet in his brain and one leg. A bullet in his back will be removed after he regains strength, family members said.
The three victims were among a group of nine friends who vacationed regularly at Cowpet Bay Condominiums in the East End. They had gone to dinner together Wednesday night and decided to stop for a farewell drink at a stern-wheeler boat converted into a pub.
As the friends made their way from the parking lot to the restaurant, gunmen in white ski masks suddenly opened fire on them.
"I thought it was firecrackers," said Mr. Schenk's wife, Phyllis, as she waited to visit her husband. "But after the two shots, I knew I wasn't hearing firecrackers."
The Schenks bought a condominium at Cowpet Bay 12 years ago. Mrs. Sardella bought a condominium there 10 years ago.
"Ironically, they felt safe here," said the Schenks' oldest daughter, Diane Koerper, 34.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A gunman seriously injured Marie Sardella of Walpole, Mass. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ST THOMAS HOSPITAL (69%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (72%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (72%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST THOMAS (US VIRGIN ISLANDS); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS FIREARMS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (87%); FAMILY (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); HURRICANES (67%); INJUNCTIONS (66%); HOSPITALS (65%); CURFEW (65%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (65%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (52%); 

PERSON: SARDELLA, MARIE MARIE SARDELLA (91%); RAMON S DAVILA (76%); WALTER SCHENK (69%); WILLIAM GARRITY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



760 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Doing the Chores, With Relish and Regrets

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
When the building maintenance strike began 25 days ago, Michael M. Downey faced a daunting task: get the snow shoveled, carpets vacuumed, bathrooms cleaned and lobby floors waxed at 12 Manhattan office towers when his 1,100 maintenance workers were on the picket line.
To meet this challenge, Mr. Downey, who has worked seven days a week since the strike began, has relied on 150 supervisory personnel working 14-hour days, including weekends, and on a hastily assembled crew of about 700 temporary placement workers. 
 Mr. Downey, senior vice president in charge of building operations for the Mendik Company, one of New York's largest landlords, unmistakably regrets the strike, which has left many longtime, loyal workers shivering day after day on the picket line. Just as unmistakably, his proud, macho streak relishes the challenge of keeping his company's millions of square feet of office space, running smoothly despite a strike by porters, handymen, elevator operators and other maintenance workers.
For Mr. Downey, the hardest day of the strike was the Sunday of the Blizzard of '96, a day he now describes with a touch of elan. "We worked around the clock," he said. "I personally shoveled snow for 13 hours. We had guys sleeping in their offices, shoveling, taking catnaps and then shoveling again."
Just hours after the strike began, Mr. Downey began hiring replacement workers to maintain the Mendik Company's holdings, including 2 Penn Plaza, which towers over Pennsylvania Station, and 20 Broad Street, which houses many of the New York Stock Exchange's offices. Through his company's building maintenance subsidiary, he hired unemployed people, college students needing tuition money, new arrivals from Eastern Europe, and Latin American immigrants looking for a second job.
"We had to close the doors down twice because there were so many people who wanted to work," Mr. Downey said.
Even though he has deployed a small army of strikebreakers who are paid $350 a week, Mr. Downey maintains that he has a lot of sympathy for the strikers. "My father was a union man," he said, explaining that his father ran building boiler rooms as a member of the Operating Engineers Union.
Mr. Downey, who grew up at 67th Street and Columbus Avenue and now lives in Guttenberg, N.J., started in the real estate business, fresh out of the Navy, worked like his father in the boiler room as a lowly engineer's assistant. Now, after years of bounding up the corporate ladder, the 54-year-old Mr. Downey fits comfortably into management, with his tailored suits and Italian loafers and his sun-drenched 37th-floor office, which is filled with lithographs of 19th-century New York and pictures of his grandchildren.
He has an unmistakable resemblance to the actor Harvey Keitel. Like the actor, Mr. Downey is taut and intense with a throaty voice and fierce eyes, but his hair is lighter and his demeanor a lot less menacing.
"This strike is painful for everybody," he said. "It's hard for anybody to go without a paycheck for three weeks. I know a lot of these people for 10, 12, 18 years. I know their families. It's painful for me to see this."
But he was not going to let this sympathy stop him from employing people the strikers castigate as "scabs."
"Management has the responsibility to run their business to the best of their ability during a strike," he said.
As evidence of his sympathy, he mentions that he often gives $20 bills to strikers to buy lunch -- and to make sure the strike does not sunder longstanding ties.
"Do we want to hire permanent replacement workers?" he said. "No way. This is not a city or business that does that. A lot of these people are real assets."
Talking as if vandalism is an inconvenience of doing business, he said that at some buildings, strikers put glue in door locks, cut the tires of snow plows, stole building keys and used box cutters to tear open garbage bags.
"They're into the third week of the strike," he said. "They're getting desperate. A lot of this you have to accept. These are working people. They're not criminals."
Mr. Downey is especially close to the dispute since he is on the real estate industry's negotiating team, which is made up of representatives of building owners and managers. The two sides announced yesterday that they would resume talks on Wednesday after negotiations broke off Jan. 20.
According to Mr. Downey, building operations are more or less back to normal -- an assertion that many tenants dispute. He described a strategy in which management, during the first few days of the strike, concentrated on cleaning public spaces, like lobbies, elevators and bathrooms. Next, it moved onto emptying tenants' wastebaskets and vacuuming their carpets. Only afterward did the replacement workers move onto dusting the offices.
"We're now basically up to providing full service," Mr. Downey said.
Ellen Bisogno, who oversees the New York operations of BDO Seidman, an accounting firm and a Mendik tenant at 330 Madison Avenue, said, however, that things were still not back to normal.
"Mendik is trying their very best, but that doesn't mean we're not greatly affected by the strike," Ms. Bisogno said. "Whenever I need an engineer for heating or engineering problems, I have to wait longer than normal. Also, the cleaning services are not up to snuff. I end up emptying our garbage from the office kitchen."
Using a logic that many strikers would say is tortured, Mr. Downey insists that management's proposal, which includes cutting porters' $573-a-week starting salaries by 40 percent, would do more to preserve union jobs than the union's proposal of giving all workers three years of 3.5 percent wage increases. He said many building tenants are growing so fed up with the cost of unionized maintenance workers that they are hiring cheaper nonunion cleaning crews.
Mr. Downey insists that the industry needs to cut starting salaries and overall labor costs because building operating expenses are so high and the rental market so weak that many buildings are barely breaking even. But the strikers fear that a lower starting salary would encourage management to dismiss higher-paid veteran workers and replace them with lower-paid newcomers.
Saying that New York is teeming with real estate magnates earning millions of dollars each year, many strikers scoff at the real estate industry's assertion that it is hurting. Mr. Downey, who would not disclose his salary, said that typically a manager of operations for a large real estate firm earns from $125,000 to $275,000 a year.
Not flinching from being provocative, he suggested that the building workers have gone on strike in the wrong city.
"They should be striking Jersey City or Newark, where porters earn much less," and where some New York tenants have moved because of lower rents and operating costs, Mr. Downey said. "They shouldn't be striking in the city that has made them the highest-paid porters in the country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael M. Downey, senior vice president for building operations for the Mendik Company, said he has been working seven days a week since the maintenance workers' strike began 25 days ago. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (91%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MENDIK CO MENDIK CO (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MENDIK CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); EUROPE (53%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; LABOR; STRIKES COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); STRIKES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); TUITION FEES (75%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; DOWNEY, MICHAEL M DAVID DAVIS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



761 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Winter Of Discontent

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
Political scientists write about it. All of us feel it. There is a sickness in the American political system, a withering of the public faith in government that is so essential to our democracy.
The degraded level of political discourse is one symptom -- and cause -- of the disease. This has always been a country of rough political rhetoric. But the personal viciousness, the haste, the ideological shrillness are worse now than for many years. That is surely a reason for the record number of announced Congressional retirements: 13 senators and 35 representatives, among them some of the most responsible members of both parties. 
 A telling example of what has gone wrong appeared last week on the op-ed page of The Boston Globe. It was a piece by Pierre S. du Pont 4th, the former Governor of Delaware. He wrote as a member of the Republican tax reform commission that recently called for replacing the Federal income tax with some form of flat tax.
Pete du Pont (he uses his nickname) is not running for President this year, or for any other office. You might think that he could write, even on a political subject, with a degree of reason and respect for the intelligence of his readers. Instead he resorted to hate, lies and demagogy.
"The tax code as it exists today . . .," he said, "is a politicized method of unequally extracting income from people who have earned it and transferring it to people who haven't but who the politicians in Congress think have a superior claim to it." As examples of the latter he mentioned "drug addicts who need Federal dollars to support their habits and pornographic arts programs."
If you can cut your way through the slime, that paragraph shows the method of today's degraded rhetoric. Its aim is to arouse hatred of politics and politicians, to make us feel that they are all corrupt.
Can anyone really believe that Congress has designed the tax code to feed the habits of drug addicts? Did Mr. du Pont flinch even a little while writing that piece of nonsense? As for "pornographic arts programs," not even Jesse Helms has found more than a handful of arts grants to accuse of pornography. Most of the money goes to symphony orchestras, museums and the like.
"The income tax takes as much as 40 percent of what we earn each year," Mr. du Pont went on to say. Nobody in this country pays 40 percent of earnings in income tax. The top marginal rate, 39.6 percent, applies only to any income above the level of $256,500 a year.
Then Mr. du Pont blamed the graduated income tax for low economic growth. Between 1973 and 1993, he said, middle-class incomes in this country were stagnant. True, but irrelevant.
The years 1950 to 1973 saw remarkable economic growth: nearly 4 percent a year. Our tax rates then were more sharply graduated than they are now. The rich, that is, paid higher marginal rates. That did not discourage economic growth.
A flat tax, Mr. du Pont said, "would cause an explosion of growth in the American economy, creating millions of new jobs and billions of dollars in take-home pay." Yes, and bits of the moon's green cheese would fall to the earth as manna, feeding us all.
The truth is that neither economists nor anyone else knows exactly why growth was greater in the past or how it could be raised to those levels now. It would be helpful to increase the saving rate, but lower taxes have not historically meant higher saving -- and in any event more saving would bring only a little more economic growth.
Mr. du Pont did not mention the real point of the flat tax. It would stop taxing the receipt of dividends and interest altogether, and drastically cut the tax on high earnings. Guess who would benefit.
There was a legal note in Mr. du Pont's article that set some kind of record for absurdity. A system in which everyone pays the same Federal income tax rate, he said, is "presumably what the Constitution means by 'equal protection of the laws.' " The equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment governs state action and has nothing to do with the Federal income tax. If Mr. du Pont does not know that, he should return his law degree.
Pete du Pont is someone from whom our politics might have expected a certain honor. That he should feel it right to insult his readers and degrade himself says a lot about where we are.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAX REFORM (74%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (70%); PORNOGRAPHY (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); GOVERNORS (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY PIERRE S DU PONT (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



762 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: TOKYO JOURNAL;
Rappers' Credo: No Sex, Please? We're Japanese

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 28

 BODY:
Yuri Ichii is one of Japan's biggest rap stars, but it was tea that she choked on, not something stronger, when she was asked about rap music's associations with sex, drugs and violence.
"I just live an ordinary life," she protested, "and I love my Mom and Dad." 
 Miss Ichii, in short, is not exactly an emblem of "gangsta rap." She has sold millions of copies and is riding the crest of popularity of rap music in Asia, but rap on this side of the Pacific Ocean is a world apart from its counterpart in America, and the chasm underscores the difference in youth values and popular culture.
American rap is notorious for some hard-edged songs of sex and violence, even about killing a policeman -- although fans say that it is a few well-publicized songs that have given the entire genre a bad name. In his State of the Union address last week, President Clinton joined the call for restraint from recording companies, who churn out what critics say are odes to rape or murder.
But in Asia there is almost no debate about music lyrics, partly because Japanese have taken the beat of rap music and stuffed it with language that is as polite as Japan itself.
"We've been very fortunate, and we don't want to bother our Moms and Dads," explained Yoggy, another member of Miss Ichii's band, East End X Yuri. "So we don't sing songs that would disturb parents."
The restraint is perhaps less a tribute to the music companies than to the fans themselves. While hard-edged songs are available, by rap groups like Zingi, few customers want to buy them.
"Those songs sound like something that people in a faraway culture might sing," said Gaku, who like many rappers uses just his stage name. "In Japan, if we sang, 'Shoot cops!' it would sound really fake."
Miss Ichii, who is 23 but cultivates a sweet 16 look, added: "If I looked more grown-up and sexier, I might use obscene words. But I don't think those words really fit me."
So Japanese rappers talk about love, resentment, envy, dyed hair, cellular phones, even food. The songs rarely get more subversive than one called "Chase the Chance":
You're taught to cooperate,
And good girls can only be good girls.
But you've felt the beat, and there's nothing you can do
Just chase the chance.
The songs might seem pablum to American rappers, but they are big sellers throughout Asia. Indigenous rap has spread to South Korea, Thailand, China, Malaysia and much of the rest of Asia, and in most countries it is as popular as it is polite.
Japanese rap, in particular, uses a lot of slang, making it seem very informal. This is accentuated by the hip hop look that goes with rap: baggy pants that slip down on the hips, baseball caps, heavy jewelry, a plastic bag from a music store in one's hand, and a studied casualness.
The rap song "Street Life" describes the mood:
Now's the time to hip hop,
Everybody's crazy about rap
Hey, hey, you all, listen up,
Listen to my rap and cheer up.
The song continues to talk about "hanging out till we die," but the problem is that street life in Japan is pretty much limited to Sunday afternoons. The rest of the week the youthful fans shed their baggy pants for school uniforms and spend their evenings in cram school.
Indeed, that may be part of the appeal of rap in Japan: it signifies a mild rebellion against the world of neckties and keigo, or formal language, that constricts adults.
"High-school kids might find it refreshing to see the way we lead our lives, or the way we treat work," said Bose, of the group Schadaraparr.
Mr. Bose, like many rappers, tries to portray himself as a rebel against Japanese society, but to anyone familiar with American lyrics he seems pretty tame.
"If our views were taken seriously by the audience, it would have a very bad effect on society," Mr. Bose said.
Asked what kind of dreadful effect their music or way of life could possibly have, since Mr. Bose had already admitted that the lyrics were mostly unintelligible fragments of conversation with no particular meaning, the group members looked down at the table in embarrassment and silence.
Finally, they came up with an example of how their way of life threatens the orderliness of Japanese society and economics.
"Well," said Mr. Bose, "like, we were really late to this interview. Stuff like that."
Steve McClure, the Japan bureau chief of Billboard, the trade magazine for the music industry, noted that Japanese rap illustrates the way that Japan often takes foreign cultural forms and transforms them to meet its own needs.
Baseball, for example, is as widespread in Japan as in America, but ballplayers here sometimes begin games by bowing to the opposing team.
"Japanese like the style and beat of rap music, but they don't like the content," said Keith Cahoon, Far East managing director for Tower Records. "Japanese don't feel so comfortable with sexual bragging, and very few people here deal drugs for a living, or have guns, or have racial conflicts, so these topics don't really relate."
In the absence of much of a social message, some rap musicians turn to humor. One popular rap group, Geisha Girls, is made up of two male comedians who began wearing geisha costumes and singing rap songs as a lark.
"I figured the lyrics didn't really matter, so I just threw in whatever words fit the beat," admitted Hitoshi Matsumoto, one of the performers, whose stage name is Ken.
Pressed on the message in his rap, Mr. Matsumoto looked blank at first. Then he remembered.
"I was so busy around the time we were recording," he said brightly, "that I guess my message in the songs was really that I wanted to fall asleep."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rap music is popular in Japan, and in most songs the language is as polite as Japan itself. One group, the Geisha Girls, is made up of two men who began wearing geisha costumes and singing rap songs as a lark. (Junichi Takahashi/FOR LIFE Records)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); THAILAND (79%); CHINA (79%); MALAYSIA (77%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (57%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); THAILAND (79%); CHINA (79%); MALAYSIA (77%); PACIFIC OCEAN (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RAP MUSIC; VIOLENCE RAP MUSIC (96%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MUSIC (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



763 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Agents Face Hurdles on Border Patrol

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF 

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif.

 BODY:
When Sara G. Guzman, a United States Border Patrol agent, tells her father about chasing illegal aliens through the canyons and scrub along this stretch of rusty frontier fence with Mexico, he says in Spanish: "Yes, I remember. I used to cross there."
Ms. Guzman, an immigrant from Mexico, stakes out the same hillsides here, south of San Diego, where her father clambered illegally into the United States over the years before becoming a legal resident in 1978. She detains mostly people like him, Mexican, but also Central American, and almost always poor: people looking for hope and opportunity in the agricultural fields and construction gangs of California. 
 It is just one of the many conflicts faced by Hispanic Border Patrol agents -- both American-born and naturalized United States citizens -- who together make up 40 percent of the agency's force. Though Hispanic agents are valued by the Border Patrol for enforcing United States immigration laws and their frequent Spanish language fluency, they are reviled by many in their own community as traitors and are cajoled by illegal aliens they capture with entreaties of cross-border brotherhood.
"Aliens try the guilt trip: 'How can you do this to your own people?' " said Ms. Guzman, who eventually moved legally to California from central Mexico with her family and then became a United States citizen 11 years ago. "After that it's, 'I have nothing in Mexico. You ought to know how things are down there.'
"I do feel what they are going through," Ms. Guzman said. "But it's not that I feel guilty apprehending them. It's my job. Am I supposed to let people go who are breaking the law just because of their ethnic background?"
These days, nearly 2,000 of the 5,000-member Border Patrol are Hispanic, as the agency swells in size to pacify public demand for a secure southern frontier.
Meanwhile, people are crossing this international line like never before in places like San Ysidro, a consequence of Mexico's year-old economic crisis.
Just on the other side of the fence from here, in the slums of Tijuana, people mass at the border every day. That is especially true this month, when illegal aliens traditionally return to the United States from a Christmas spent in Mexico, and in time for winter harvest. They generally wait for nightfall to make a dash past Border Patrol agents, many of whom have the same heritage and celebrate the same Latin American religious holidays as their quarry.
Often, aliens who are captured barb Hispanic agents with reminders of their roots, no matter how far removed, in hopes of being let free.
"They know you have relatives down there," Mr. Dominguez said, whose great-grandmother immigrated to the United States from Mexico. "They try to throw that at you."
David R. Saucedo, a Hispanic Border Patrol agent born in the United States, tells of being raised in a predominantly Hispanic San Diego neighborhood, speaking only Spanish until elementary school and holding contempt for the Border Patrol. Now, during lulls in his duty at the fence, he sits in a four-wheel drive Government-issued truck listening to Mexican ranchera music on a Spanish-language radio station.
"In my neighborhood, there was a lot of Chicano activism," Mr. Saucedo said, whose father emigrated from Mexico. "They always had their rallies, saying, 'We have got to get la migra out of our neighborhood.' "
Because of that sentiment, Mr. Saucedo says he never wears his green Border Patrol uniform when traveling between work and home. It could be dangerous because agents are considered by some to be an unwelcome obstacle for others at the border.
"There are groups out there who think we are the No. 1 enemy of the Hispanic community," he said. "That can be major. There can be a few people who are really militant."
Tensions along the border here were recently exacerbated by California voters' approval of Proposition 187, which would eliminate state benefits now available to illegal aliens, including education and health care. That law, ruled partly unconstitutional by a judge in November, is viewed by some as racist.
Also, in the San Diego area, the Border Patrol is adding fencing and coordinating activities with police and the military as part of an operation called Gatekeeper. Some groups on both sides of the border have said this build-up is unneighborly.
Decades ago, it was the Border Patrol that did not put much trust in Hispanic agents, according to Leon C. Metz, author of the history book, "Border: The U.S.-Mexico Line." He said Hispanic agents were few, and that those who joined the Border Patrol were relegated to being interpreters or detention guards.
"There was some fear," Mr. Metz said, "that if you assigned people who speak Spanish and whose ancestors came from Mexico to the border, they would be sympathetic to those they should be apprehending."
As a sign of a dramatic shift in policy over the years at the Border Patrol, Ms. Guzman considers her job to be a good one and the agency well-integrated. Her father is amused that she joined the very agency he once tried to avoid. It is her American-born uncles who chide her career choice.
"I tell them, 'Hey, I'm a U.S. citizen,' " Ms. Guzman said. "I tell them Mexico didn't care enough to keep its citizens in its country. Why should I feel any loyalty to Mexico?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States Border Patrol has a growing number of Hispanic agents, like Sara Guzman, who escorted two illegal aliens into custody. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BORDER PATROL (US) DIRECTV (91%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (95%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BORDER PATROL (US) US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (95%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) BORDER CONTROL (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (84%); NATURALIZATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); CHRISTMAS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: KOPYTOFF, VERNE G SARA G GUZMAN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



764 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Russia Is Distrusted on Uranium Deal

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is scrambling to fend off accusations that it cannot verify whether Moscow is cheating on a deal that was central to ending the cold war -- the purchase by the United States of enriched uranium from thousands of Russian nuclear warheads.
The doubts center on whether the Russians are indeed dismantling weapons, as agreed, or are supplying the uranium from other sources, like stockpiles or continued production. 
 Even those who applaud the deal are now accusing the Administration of sloppiness in its verification, while conservative and industry groups who oppose it are accusing the Russians of deception.
Although no evidence exists that the Russians are evading the deal's purpose, Federal and private experts say, reservations about compliance are sufficiently worrisome that the Administration is trying to negotiate better verification procedures.
"The United States currently does not have adequate inspection rights" to detect cheating on the deal, says a forthcoming study, "Avoiding Nuclear Anarchy," by the Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.
 
The Deal's Goals: Security and Aid
At first, the deal seemed like a dream come true. In 1992, President George Bush announced that the United States would pay Russia $12 billion for 500 metric tons of highly enriched uranium from scrapped nuclear arms, which was to be diluted into reactor fuel. The purpose was to aid the shaky Russian economy and to lower the risks of nuclear war, accidents and theft. Moreover, the $12 billion cost of the uranium was to be recouped by selling it to electric utilities, thereby keeping the American taxpayer from paying the bill.
But translating the dream into a workable transaction has proved much more difficult. A central issue is diluting the uranium. Some 90 percent of the nuclear material in warheads is in the form of the uranium isotope known as uranium-235. Reactor-grade fuel is usually about 4 percent uranium-235. The Bush Administration wanted the Russians to deliver 90 percent enriched uranium and for its dilution to reactor fuel to occur at a American site.
The agreement was a commercial deal, not a treaty that required Senate approval, and by the time the Clinton Administration settled the Bush transaction, the task of diluting the uranium had somehow become the Russians' responsibility. What the Russians deliver is 4 percent enriched, fuel-grade uranium. American experts say they cannot tell whether this material comes from warheads, stockpiles of highly enriched uranium, continuing production or other sources, like naval reactor fuel enriched up to 30 percent or research reactor fuel enriched up to 36 percent.
Defenders of the deal say that most likely, it is removing weapons-grade uranium from circulation even if the uranium does not come from warheads. But some opponents say it is impossible to tell if the uranium was ever enriched to the 90 percent level used in weapons.
The first major shipments began arriving in June after years of wrangling and false starts. To date, the Russians have delivered, in the form of diluted reactor fuel, six metric tons of highly enriched uranium, enough for about 300 nuclear warheads.
For its part, the Clinton Administration is now negotiating with Moscow to try to tighten inspection procedures to better assure itself that the uranium now arriving is what the Russians claim it is.
 
Success or Failure? Experts Are Split
Given the uncertainty, American experts are split on whether the uranium deal is a boon or a boondoggle.
"We shouldn't worry too much about the source," said Alexander DeVolpi, a physicist at the Argonne National Laboratory, an arm of the Energy Department near Chicago that has investigated technical means to strengthen verification of the deal. Echoing some Clinton Administration officials, he said that where the shipped material comes from is largely irrelevant because it is still material that could have been made into bomb fuel.
"We should buy as much as we can, which will keep it away from the Russian military and terrorists," Mr. DeVolpi said in an interview. "Its origin really doesn't matter, in my mind. All this material is dangerous in the wrong hands. So the more we can get, the less risk there is."
A different view is taken by Frank J. Gaffney Jr., a Pentagon official in the Reagan Administration who now directs the Center for Security Policy, a nonprofit Washington group. Considering past Russian practice, he said, it is highly likely that Moscow is keeping old bombs intact and sending over different types of uranium, possibly from new production.
"Are they cheating? Can I prove it? No," he said. "But this is a piece with everything else that's happening, and that causes me to say, 'Count on it.' And to add insult to injury, they're inducing us to pay for their cheating."
The warhead uranium deal is unique in that it is the only East-West agreement that specifically calls for the destruction of nuclear warheads. The Start 1 and 2 and other arms control agreements called only for the means of delivery to be dismantled, like missile silos and submarine tubes.
The sale was proposed in October 1991 by Dr. Thomas L. Neff, a physicist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The idea was espoused by President Bush but it was the Clinton Administration that signed a formal agreement with Russia in February 1993. Government documents show that by then, the dilution site was ambiguous -- in the United States "and/or" Russia, potentially making the material's origin harder to track.
But American officials were confident that study of the material's chemical and radiologic fingerprints as well as close monitoring of its shipment or processing on Russian soil would certify its origin.
 
At Outset, Tracking Seemed Possible
 "It was our expectation that we would know," said William F. Burns, a retired Army major general who signed the agreement on behalf of the United States, adding that the Russians seemed eager to "support whatever was needed to make sure."
By 1994, the site for diluting the fuel had shifted exclusively to Russia, with the United States to get only uranium already cut to 4.4 percent uranium 235, a standard concentration for nuclear reactors. But problems began to arise that year and the next over verifying the source of the uranium.
The first samples from Russia were contaminated with plutonium and other radioactive elements and isotopes, like uranium 234 and uranium 236. That was good for tracking the origin of the material but bad for commercial sales. So the United States Enrichment Corporation, an arm of the Government in the process of being privatized that runs the American side of the deal, worked with the Russians to clean up the uranium.
Western experts say the material still holds enough radioactive clues to show whether it is derived exclusively from virgin uranium ore, as is sometimes the case with reactor fuel. Beyond that, they say, its origin is difficult to pin down by laboratory study alone.
To aid such analysis, the Administration for two years has increasingly pressed Moscow to give inspectors access to the processing sites. But progress has been minimal, with the Russians insisting on reciprocal access to sensitive American sites.
 
Attempt to Tighten Monitoring System
In March 1994, William H. Timbers Jr., head of the United States Enrichment Corporation, warned that no transfers would occur until Moscow agreed to closer inspection. That threat produced a signature but the promised access was found wanting.
Last June as the deal threatened to unravel, Energy Secretary Hazel R. O'Leary and the Russian Minister of Atomic Energy, Viktor N. Mikhailov, in a meeting in Moscow, signed a statement outlining a tentative accord.
It would let American inspectors into Russian plants to take samples from pipes, examine instruments meant to monitor the flow and contents of pipes, and receive copies of all accounting, processing and operational control records related to the conversion of warheads into fuel.
That tentative accord is now being negotiated in Geneva under the auspices of an East-West governmental team known as the Transparency Review Committee.
On Dec. 4, Nuclear Fuel, a Washington trade publication, reported that the Geneva negotiators "recently failed to reach agreement on key points during talks over mutual monitoring of nuclear material movements under the swords-to-plowshares high-enriched uranium deal."
Among the stumbling blocks has been Russia's insistence that its inspectors be allowed into American nuclear fuel fabrication plants, including those of General Electric. Nuclear Fuel reported that fabricators are resisting such access, saying their techniques are proprietary.
In recent interviews, Administration officials said that headway was being made in the negotiations and that they expect to sign an accord in the next few months.
"We're on track for what looks like a satisfactory system," said a senior official, who spoke on condition of anonimity. "We expect to have more confidence that next year's shipments are from warheads than we did with the first six tons."

GRAPHIC: Diagram

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (63%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; URANIUM; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BROAD, WILLIAM J GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



765 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Would Buy Apple;
But Sun's Chief, Scott McNealy, Probably Won't Be Caught Overpaying

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
At the headquarters of Sun Microsystems Inc. in Mountain View, Calif., there is no corporate art on the walls. There are no company limousines or reserved parking places. No one is allowed to personalize the stationery, by having a name embossed on the company letterhead. Those frills cost money.
When Scott G. McNealy, the boyish-looking, 41-year-old chairman, decides to have a serious talk over lunch with one of Sun's executives, he splurges by going to Chevys, a nearby Mexican restaurant. The bill typically weighs in at about $10 -- for two. 
 "Scott McNealy just hates wasting money, hates spending a lot for things," said Eric E. Schmidt, Sun's chief technology officer.
In the last week, Mr. McNealy's tightwad tendencies have become painfully apparent to the top management of Apple Computer Inc. After months of discussion, Sun proposed an acquisition of Apple last Tuesday in an exchange of shares that would value Apple at $23 a share, according to executives familiar with the talks. That is well below the recent price of Apple shares, which have traded around $30.
Even at a higher reported bid of $33 a share, Sun, by the standards of most takeover deals, would be offering Apple a fire-sale price. Last June, Apple's stock traded at more than $50 a share, though that was well before the Cupertino, Calif., computer maker announced its recent losses and layoffs.
For his part, Mr. McNealy has declined to confirm or deny that his company is talking to Apple at all. In an interview on Friday afternoon, Mr. McNealy insisted that any discussion of Apple was off-limits.
Mr. McNealy is known for his aggressive management, clipped speaking style and irreverent one-liners -- a favorite is "have lunch or be lunch." Still, he spoke at length in the telephone interview about Sun, his management style and his vision of computing's future.
Mr. McNealy's remarks -- combined with interviews with Sun officials and industry analysts -- help explain both why he is interested in Apple and why he would be very careful about the price of any deal with Apple.
Mr. McNealy has an undergraduate degree in economics from Harvard and an M.B.A. from Stanford. But to understand his fundamental view of business, one must go back further, when he was growing up in suburban Detroit, the son of an auto executive. "I came from the automobile business, and I tend to think in those terms," he said last week.
His first job as a 17-year-old, Mr. McNealy recalled, was washing cars for $1.75 an hour at a Chevrolet dealership in Southfield, Mich., owned by Roger Penske, the car-racing entrepreneur.
Mr. McNealy's father, William, was the vice chairman of the American Motors Corporation. His father's auto maker learned the hard way that without market share, a company is always scrambling, unable to muster the financial, marketing and technological muscle to shape the direction of its industry. It was a lesson not lost on young Mr. McNealy.
"Scott is an absolute firm believer in market share," said Richard H. Van Hoesen, a former Sun manager who is the chief financial officer of Consilium Inc., a software company.
Since it began in 1982, Sun has sought ways to grab market share. The company was founded by Mr. McNealy; a fellow Stanford M.B.A., Vinod Khosla; a Stanford engineering graduate student, Andreas Bechtolsheim, and William N. Joy, a software whiz from the University of California at Berkeley. It started building computer work stations mainly for engineers and scientists using a software operating system called Unix, a programming language originally developed at AT&T's Bell Labs.
In 1987, Sun made a bold bid to set a new, open technology standard in computing, by inviting the industry to clone its Sparc microprocessor and AT&T's Unix. It was essentially a one-technology-fits-all vision, a chip standard and operating system that could span everything from personal computers to the biggest corporate machines. Indeed, Sun had visions of getting into the desktop PC business, a project that inside Sun was dubbed the "Sparcintosh," suggesting its powerful chip combined with the Apple Macintosh's consumer appeal.
But Sun's drive to shape a new technology standard faltered as industry powers like I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard resisted. They were not about to let an upstart company direct an assault on their profitable world. They agreed with Sun on the appeal of Unix software and powerful chips with a new design. So they fashioned their own chip designs and different flavors of Unix. Sun did not have the influence to shepherd the industry toward a standard.
Yet today, Mr. McNealy believes that he has another opportunity to mold industry standards, and this time Sun may stand a better chance of succeeding. The opportunity, he says, is the Internet. The Internet, in Mr. McNealy's view, represents the rise of the "third wave of computing," the first being the mainframe and second the personal computer.
In the fast-growing field of networked computing, Sun is a pioneer, and thus in a far stronger position to shape the industry than it was in 1987, when it tried to set chip and operating-system standards. Sun is a leader in Unix, the underlying language of the Internet. Its traditional strength in the research market, where the Internet first took off, insured the company strong sales in Internet servers and work stations.
Indeed, Sun has been committed to networked computing since the outset; its first work station in 1982 was equipped with networking capabilities. For years, Sun has had as its corporate motto: "The Network is the Computer."
Lately, the real excitement surrounding Sun and the Internet has been over Java, a software language. Java promises to make the Internet come alive with small applications, or applets, which one day could forage out on the Net and bring back everything from "Toy Story" characters to an on-screen talk with a child to the cheapest Caribbean spot for snowbound adults.
Java, Mr. McNealy says, opens a whole new world for Sun. But just how Sun will make money on Java is still unclear. As Mr. Schmidt, Sun's chief technology officer, observed, "No one knows the true economics of software in the network model." Sun has followed much the same formula that the Netscape Communications Corporation used with the Navigator browser -- give it away or license it cheaply to establish an Internet standard.
By now, companies from I.B.M. to Microsoft have licensed Java, but the early payoff from Java seems to be in helping sell more Internet hardware, servers and work stations. Sun executives speak of this as an indirect "halo" effect from being seen as a pioneer.
"Sun has done a great job in that area," said Jan Silverman, director of Hewlett-Packard's Internet Solutions Group, which today is introducing a line of Internet servers squarely aimed at Sun's franchise.
But it is to fend off challenges to Sun's existing Internet business and expand sales that Apple begins to look appealing. Apple has a surprisingly strong position in Internet servers, computers that distribute Net data. Many of the graphic artists, World Wide Web site creators and other Internet designers work on Apple computers. And Apple has millions of loyal customers.
For the future, does Sun need an Apple-like consumer presence? "Java already gives us a consumer presence," Mr. McNealy replied.
That is true, but only up to a point. Java does not give Sun a presence in consumer hardware, which Mr. McNealy has long sought. And he is a firm believer in hardware.
To explain, he returns to his auto-industry analogy. He compared an operating system to a car transmission, a chip to an engine, applications and user interfaces to a dashboard, and network connections to tires.
"We're committed to being a fully integrated computer company -- a real car company, if you will, and not dealer or distributor," he said.
Mr. McNealy regards companies like Compaq and even Hewlett-Packard as mere "dealers," because they mainly package the technology of others. In Mr. McNealy's view, there will eventually be three integrated computer companies just as there is a Big Three in Detroit. In computing, he says, the Big Three will be Sun, I.B.M. and what he calls "General and Motors," Microsoft and Intel.
If the goal is to attain market share and scale, Apple could look quite attractive. Still, it would be a high-wire act indeed, given Apple's size and severe problems. Acquiring Apple would seem to threaten what Mr. McNealy says is his No. 1 corporate objective -- rewarding Sun's shareholders. Mr. McNealy has often told the Sun board that he would not mind forgoing a salary altogether, taking only stock instead, to align his interests more closely with the shareholders. In fact, Mr. McNealy is a big Sun shareholder with nearly 2.3 million shares, worth almost $97 million.
Last week, as rumors of an Apple merger swirled, Sun investors did not like it. For the week, Sun shares fell $4.75 a share, to $42.25.
If Sun should acquire Apple, Mr. McNealy is going to have a real challenge convincing Sun's shareholders that he got a bargain, no matter what the price.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott G. McNealy, the chairman of Sun Microsystems, "just hates wasting money," a colleague says. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; APPLE COMPUTER INC APPLE INC (94%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; APPLE COMPUTER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES INTERVIEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); COMPUTER MAKERS (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (60%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; MCNEALY, SCOTT G ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); ROGER S PENSKE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



766 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and France Suspend Aid After Military Coup in Niger

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: NIAMEY, Niger, Jan. 28

 BODY:
Soldiers patrolled Niamey, the capital of Niger, today after a military coup that ousted the elected President, Mahamane Ousmane, and France and the United States said that they had suspended aid.
Soldiers seized control of Niger's Government on Saturday. Col. Barre Mainassara Ibrahim declared himself head of state, political parties were outlawed and the constitution was suspended. 
 Mr. Ousmane was placed under house arrest.
Colonel Mainassara, 45, said he staged the coup to end an "absurd crisis" in Parliament, where for the past year Mr. Ousmane and his opponents had been locked in a political standoff.
He said the military had "saved Niger from chaos" and called politicians "greedy, badly prepared and incapable of adapting to the demands of democratic power."
The coup, coming just 10 days after a military takeover in Sierra Leone, was sure to make life even more difficult for the wretchedly poor country of Niger, which depends on foreign aid. Few donor nations are willing to give money to military governments that came to power by ousting democratically elected ones.
A soldier and a presidential guard were killed and at least a dozen soldiers were wounded in gunfights that could be heard throughout the capital as the coup unfolded.
International telephone lines remained down today, and the airport was closed.
As Colonel Mainassara's speech was read on state-run radio on Saturday night, civilians cowered in their homes. Soldiers walked the streets, some firing into the air.
The United States condemned the coup in a statement Saturday night. Nicholas Burns, the State Department spokesman, said that because the coup was violent, American law requires that aid to Niger be suspended. "The military forces responsible for this abhorrent deed have acted contrary to the will of the people," he said.
France condemned the coup today and said it had suspended military and economic aid to Niger, a former colony.
A statement by the French Foreign Ministry said the military was responsible for the security of Mr. Ousmane and Prime Minister Hama Amadou, who was also arrested.
"France calls for their release and the restoration of constitutional law," the statement said.
Mr. Ousmane's Government had struggled from the start as he attempted to forge unity among a dozen political parties in the National Assembly. Elected President after Niger's first democratic elections in 1993, Mr. Ousmane was forced to dissolve the National Assembly a year later to avert a vote of no-confidence.
Critics accused him of not doing enough to improve the economy, and of being too soft on Libyan-backed Tuareg rebels fighting a war of secession in the north.

GRAPHIC: Map of Niger

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: NIGER (99%); FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); 

CITY: NIAMEY, NIGER (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSEMBLY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSEMBLY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGER; FRANCE; NIGER (99%); FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); NIAMEY, NIGER (73%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NIGER-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NIGER; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT COUPS (95%); ARMED FORCES (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); ARRESTS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); HOUSE ARREST (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); 

PERSON: OUSMANE, MAHAMANE (PRES) BARRE MAINASSARA IBRAHIM (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



767 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Strikes at 50-Year Low

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
In an economy characterized by large-scale layoffs and growing insecurity, American workers have become increasingly reluctant to take the risky step of going on strike, causing the number of strikes last year to fall to the lowest level since World War II.
Despite the periodic outbreak of titanic battles, like the 69-day strike against Boeing and the 18-month walkout against Caterpillar, there were just 32 strikes last year involving 1,000 workers or more, half the amount of a decade ago and one-eighth the level two decades ago. 
 The decline is part of a trend that began in the mid-1970's and resulted from such factors as companies' growing ability to operate during a strike, a surge in labor-management teamwork at many corporations and labor's fear of management's use of permanent replacement workers.
Some labor experts say they are surprised that the decrease in the number of strikes has coincided with two trends that might be expected to make labor more militant: the decline in real wages since 1973 and the constant downsizing, layoffs and transfer of factories overseas by corporations over the past decade.
"The fundamental trend in the economy is insecurity and fear," said Gregory Tarpinian, director of the Labor Research Association, a nonprofit group. "It's caused a decline in workers' willingness to take the riskiest of all actions and put their jobs on the line by striking."
In the view of some labor leaders, the election of John J. Sweeney as the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s new president could help reverse the decline in strikes because he has promised to build a stronger union movement, one less likely to flinch from confrontations with management.
Richard L. Trumka, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s new secretary-treasurer, said as much in an interview: "For those employers who want to work with workers and treat them as assets that are invested in rather than costs to be cut, we will be their best friends. But for employers who want to destroy the workers' standard of living and deny their benefits, you'll see us become more aggressive. We won't run away from employers who want to fight."
Even though there have been some union defeats in recent strikes, most notably the United Auto Workers' failure in its fight with Caterpillar, Mr. Trumka insisted that strikes were still useful. He pointed to the success of the 33,000 machinists who went on strike against Boeing last fall and won a large bonus, fought off concessions on health insurance and won restrictions against subcontracting overseas.
"We are looking at strikes as a last resort," Mr. Trumka said. "But when we execute them well, they have been very successful."
Many union officials see one overarching reason that the number of strikes has plummeted: management's frequent resort to hiring permanent replacement workers. In the 45 years since the passage in 1935 of the Wagner Act, which set the ground rules for labor relations, companies rarely hired permanent replacement workers.
But that changed radically after 1981, when President Reagan dismissed hundreds of striking air traffic controllers and hired permanent replacements. That, many labor experts say, gave companies the green light to take similar actions when confronted by strikes. During the 1980's, such well-known companies as Greyhound, Phelps Dodge and Eastern Airlines hired permanent replacements, while The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News have followed suit to combat a strike by 2,500 of the newspapers' workers that began last July.
"It wasn't something that management did until the 1980's," said David Lipsky, dean of the Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations. "It has a chilling effect on unions and their propensity to strike."
Jay Mazur, president of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, put it another way. "Workers are very concerned about people taking their jobs away if they strike," he said. "You never want to go into a strike and victimize the workers. You want to make sure you have the capacity to win."
As unions have grown more gun-shy about striking, they have turned increasingly to what they call corporate campaigns to pressure management. Those campaigns often involve boycotts, advertisements, picketing an executive's house and pressuring other companies not to do business with the corporation.
For example, Mr. Mazur's union is urging consumers to boycott Kmart in Greensboro, N.C., because workers at a distribution center there have been unable to reach a contract with the company. This month, the union organized a peaceful protest at a Kmart there in which 39 people were arrested for trespassing.
In part to discourage strikes, companies are increasingly using sophisticated techniques to keep operations humming during a walkout. Anticipating a strike, Caterpillar made sure it had alternative sources for crucial parts and trained many clerical workers to do the jobs of assembly-line workers. Many companies have greatly automated their factories, partly to insure that a handful of managers can run operations during a strike.
Not long ago, a strike by a few dozen highly skilled workers could close a factory. But now, for instance, many factories have computer-controlled metal-cutting machines, run by semiskilled technicians, that can make the all-important dies that, once, only skilled tool and die workers could make.
"Some observers have talked about the technological obsolescence of strikes," Mr. Lipsky said. "Because of technological change, striking in many industries no longer has the effect of curtailing the employer's operations significantly. It's very hard to strike the phone company nowadays because everything is done automatically. When workers see that employers can operate without many employees, it makes them think twice about striking."
Corporate officials give a sharply different explanation for the drop in strikes. In their view, it results from increased employer-employee teamwork and from management's treating workers with more respect.
"There's greater use of teams at many companies," said Diane Generous, director of employee relations at the National Association of Manufacturers. "Employers are bringing in employees at every level of decision-making. When you give employees a direct say in how the company is run, those employees are much less likely to go out on strike."
According to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, a Government agency that seeks to prevent strikes, there were 385 strikes, large and small, last year, a drop of 20 percent since 1994 and the smallest number since World War II. That figure, which includes a few lockouts by management, compares with 1,016 strikes, large and small, in 1985 and 3,005 in 1975.
John Calhoun Wells, director of the mediation service, partly attributes the decline to the falling percentage of workers belonging to unions: 15.5 percent, down from 35 percent in 1955. And with many unions and companies seeking greater stability, contracts are lasting longer on average, leaving fewer occasions for labor and management to feud. Last year, 15.6 percent of all new contracts were for more than three years, while a decade earlier fewer than 3 percent were.
But, perhaps in an indication of how frustrated or angry workers must get before they strike today, the length of the average strike has increased. In 1993 and 1994, the most recent years for which complete figures are available, the average strike lasted 53 days. That compares with an average of 38 days in 1985, and the 24 days that prevailed from 1950 to the mid-1970's.
"Nowadays when a decision to strike takes place," said Mr. Tarpinian, the researcher, "it means the employer's demands are so bad and relations have become so antagonistic that the workers can't take it any more. And nowadays many employers are willing to take a long strike."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Strikes on the Decline" shows the number of work stoppages from '47 to '95 (Source: Labor Research Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; CORPORATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; STRIKES STRIKES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN RICHARD L TRUMKA (70%); JAY MAZUR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



768 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Henry Lewis, Conductor Who Broke Racial Barriers of U.S. Orchestras, Is Dead at 63

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
Henry Lewis, who broke racial barriers in the music world as the first black conductor and music director of a major American orchestra, the New Jersey Symphony, and as the first black to conduct at the Metropolitan Opera in New York, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63.
The cause was a heart attack, his former wife, the mezzo-soprano Marilyn Horne, said. 
 Though suffering from lung cancer in recent years, he continued to serve as music director of the Opera-Music Theater Institute of New Jersey and of the Netherlands Radio Orchestra, and was a frequent guest conductor for opera companies and symphony orchestras in Europe and America.
Musically brilliant and a commanding figure with the baton, Mr. Lewis since the 1960's had conducted nearly every major American orchestra -- the Chicago Symphony, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Boston Symphony, the New York Philharmonic -- as well as orchestras and opera companies in Milan, London, Paris, Tokyo, Copenhagen and dozens of other music capitals.
In a 47-year career filled with landmark events, Mr. Lewis, whom some critics likened to Jackie Robinson, became the first black instrumentalist with a major American orchestra as a youth in 1948, the first black to conduct a world-class orchestra, in 1960; the first black to become music director of a major orchestra, in 1968, and the first black to conduct at the Metropolitan Opera, in 1972.
Mr. Lewis was only 16 when he joined the Los Angeles Philharmonic. Twelve years later, he made his conducting debut with that orchestra. He then founded the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra, and was engaged as a guest conductor by top orchestras across the country.
On the strength of his rapidly growing reputation, Mr. Lewis was selected in 1968, over 160 other candidates and at the musically young age of 36, to become the conductor and music director of the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra. It was a landmark event in music, for few blacks had even made it into the orchestra pit, let alone onto the podium. It made national headlines.
Over the next eight years, Mr. Lewis built the orchestra from what critics called an ensemble of "avocational" musicians with a $75,000 budget and a season of 22 concerts, into a first-class orchestra with a $1.5 million budget, a 100-concert season and a glow of prestige that took it to Carnegie Hall, the Kennedy Center in Washington and other famed halls.
Based in Newark, a blighted city more concerned with survival than with symphonies, Mr. Lewis and his orchestra began the climb by acquiring 92 top-flight professional musicians, recruiting big-name soloists, including Misha Dichter and Itzhak Perlman, and vastly expanding the company's repertory, schedule and outreach into New Jersey's ghettos as well as middle-class communities.
While continuing to perform at Symphony Hall in Newark, often selling seats for $1, the orchestra undertook a grueling travel schedule to most of New Jersey's large communities, playing in town halls, high school gymnasiums, parks and other acoustically difficult arenas.
Mr. Lewis saw it as his goal to take good music to the doorstep of ordinary people, and in his first season he was not above drawing on the services of his wife to pull in the audiences. "I'll admit it," he said at the time. "We hid behind Marilyn's skirts that first season."
He also took the orchestra into ghettos and working-class neighborhoods for outdoor concerts. Many who attended were hearing classical music for the first time, and Mr. Lewis readily acknowledged that he changed the repertory to suit the audience.
"You can't play down to them," Mr. Lewis said. "But you can't give them an all-Brahms program at first. It's a question of building an audience. I'm not a believer in the old-fashioned attitude of a conductor and orchestra playing for themselves and letting the audience listen as a kind of favor. We do everything possible to make people feel they want to come."
Mr. Lewis was sometimes criticized for his relaxed style during a concert: he often talked to the audience, for example. "I'm always talking, exploring, consciously trying to break down the barrier between us," he explained. "I tell the people that if they want to break in with applause after an exciting movement, that's fine."
Mr. Lewis was also criticized by some blacks who said that symphonies and the repertories of Western European composers were not what impoverished black communities needed. Some more militant blacks were harsher, charging that he was trying to purvey "white" music to black people.
Mr. Lewis did not apologize for his music, though he noted that not everyone had the background or inclination to appreciate it. He said, however, that he was trying to fulfill the difficult, sometimes conflicting goals of building an internationally respected orchestra while taking music to the people.
During his colorful, often tumultuous tenure with the New Jersey Symphony, acclaim followed almost everywhere, and Mr. Lewis took on other high-profile appearances as a guest conductor.
In 1972, 17 years after the contralto Marian Anderson broke the color barrier at the Metropolitan Opera House, Mr. Lewis celebrated his 40th birthday on the podium there, conducting a performance of "La Boheme." In a review for The New York Times, Donal Henahan wrote: "Mr. Lewis proved after a rather stiff beginning that the Puccini style of broad lyricism was one he understood well and could command technically. Credit the Met with good sense in engaging him, and credit Mr. Lewis with a highly satisfactory debut."
While the New Jersey orchestra's reputation and his career as a conductor were soaring, an economic slump was hurting many of the nation's best musical ensembles, and Mr. Lewis's relationship with his members grew increasingly strained as he pressed hard to maintain a grueling schedule and high-level performances.
When Mr. Lewis resigned in 1976 after eight years as the symphony's leader, critics and insiders alike called it a case of irreconcilable differences. Mr. Lewis said he had imposed stern but reasonable demands, but members called him tyrannical. In a three-week strike that preceded his resignation, the orchestra's negotiating committee actually sought a contract clause stipulating that Mr. Lewis refrain from frowning at rehearsals and performances.
After leaving Newark, Mr. Lewis for many years was a guest conductor for major orchestras and opera companies in the United States and Europe. He conducted the Metropolitan Opera tour of Japan in 1975. In 1991, he was music director for the London production of "Carmen Jones." He also frequently conducted for recordings.
Henry Jay Lewis was born on Oct. 16, 1932, in Los Angeles, the only child of Henry J. Lewis, an automobile dealer, and Mary Josephine Lewis, a registered nurse. His musical gifts were recognized early. His mother put him at the piano when he was 5, and in parochial and later public schools he played with amateur orchestras.
But his father frowned on the prospect of his career in music, Mr. Lewis once recalled. "He wanted me to become what he called 'a respectable professional man,' not a musician," he said. "There were no Negroes in classical music then."
In junior high school, he leaped at a teacher's offer of lessons on the double bass. "Double-bass players were rare," Mr. Lewis said. "I decided to master it." He also studied other instruments and voice. His talent at the double bass won him a scholarship to the University of Southern California.
He did not graduate -- he took more than enough credits, but not in the right concentrations -- but made up for it with honorary degrees later in life. At 16, he joined the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra, becoming not only the first black instrumentalist in a major American orchestra, but also the youngest.
He remained with the orchestra until 1954, when he was drafted into the Army. He then became conductor of the Seventh Army Symphony Orchestra, based in Stuttgart, Germany, where he remained until his discharge in 1957. He then returned to the Los Angeles Philharmonic and became assistant conductor under Zubin Mehta.
In 1960, after a long friendship, Mr. Lewis married Ms. Horne, by then a well-known opera star. In her autobiography, "Marilyn Horne: My Life," (Atheneum, 1983), Ms. Horne wrote that she received many warnings from friends and relatives about problems she would face as the white wife of a black man, including one from her mother: " 'What do you want to marry him for?' Mother said shortly. 'Why can't you just live with him? Be his mistress, for God's sake, not his wife!' "
The couple, who had a daughter, Angela, often appeared in musical performances together, and were the subject of magazine articles that portrayed them as happy in their music and their marriage. The marriage ended in divorce in 1979, but they remained close friends and colleagues, Ms. Horne said. Their daughter, of Hermosa Beach, Calif., survives.
"Henry Lewis was my prophet and my teacher and my right hand," Ms. Horne wrote in her book. "I certainly would have had a career without Henry, but it was he who really led me into the paths of bel canto. He labored and sweated and did everything he could to teach me the style."
In a 1970 Carnegie Hall appearance by the New Jersey Symphony, Mr. Lewis conducted and Ms. Horne sang an aria from Rossini's "Siege of Corinth." In a review for The Times, Harold C. Schonberg wrote: "There was an animal yell from the audience, then pandemonium, followed by a rising ovation. For almost five minutes, nothing could proceed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry Lewis conducting the New Jersey Symphony. (The New York Times, 1971)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (75%); EUROPE (73%); NETHERLANDS (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA; METROPOLITAN OPERA CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA; METROPOLITAN OPERA CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (75%); EUROPE (73%); NETHERLANDS (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUSIC; BLACKS MUSIC (92%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); OPERA (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (60%); BUDGETS (60%); LUNG CANCER (56%); CANCER (56%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, HENRY; MCFADDEN, ROBERT D HENRY JAY LEWIS (96%); MARILYN BERNEICE HORNE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



769 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: When High Technology Meets Low Stock Price

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ROME, Jan. 28

 BODY:
Never much of a bean counter, Carlo de Benedetti is watching the numbers closely these days, as shares in Olivetti S.p.A., the electronics company he controls, are buffeted by a wave of selling that appears to reflect bets that the share price will continue to decline.
With one eye, the Olivetti chairman, who is 61, says he is counting the subscribers who have signed up for Olivetti's mobile-phone system, Omnitel, which was inaugurated in December and is part of Olivetti's strategy to transform itself into a telecommunications company from a computer company. 
 "I was told that in the first 10 days we had 22,000 subscribers," he said brightly, in a recent conversation. "That's 2,000 a day, and we expected no subscribers in 1995." Last week, Olivetti said it had 68,000 subscribers -- encouraging, though still a far cry from the half-million it says it needs for the system to be profitable.
Mr. de Benedetti's other eye, though, is on Olivetti's stock price. In December, the company raised the equivalent of $1.5 billion by selling new shares, mainly to institutional investors in the United States and Britain. The money was needed to finance new ventures and to repay debt and close gaps in profitability that have caused it to ring up five years of losses totaling $1.5 billion. Olivetti, once a darling of investors, has not paid a dividend since 1990.
In recent weeks, Olivetti's new investors have been holding their seats as the share price plummeted, closing at 914 lire on Friday in Milan, down from nearly 1,300 lire in the heady days after the December cash call. The stock was battered on Wednesday and Thursday, dropping 12.5 percent after Olivetti disclosed that 1995 losses would surpass the level it predicted in December.
The company's chief executive, Corrado Passera, said higher charges for layoffs and poor sales in the second half of 1995 meant that Olivetti would report a net loss of $975 million, $94 million more than expected, on revenue of $6.2 billion.
But analysts attributed the plunge in the stock price less to disillusionment at the news than to rampant market speculation. "It's a monumental occasion for going short," said Piergiacomo Braganti of the Intersim brokerage in Milan.
Despite a strong reputation as a maverick, Mr. de Benedetti is no newcomer to financial maneuvers. He has assembled considerable clusters of investments over the years but his name remains most closely linked with Olivetti.
Since acquiring control of the company in 1978 and transforming it from a typewriter company into a computer giant, he has honed his skills at acquiring faltering companies, turning them around and bringing them to the stock market at a profit. By one calculation, from 1984 through 1987 he raised more than $3 billion on the market.
Not all the maneuvers succeeded. In a famous flop, Mr. de Benedetti failed in 1988 to gain control of the Societe Generale de Belgique, a company that influenced one-third of the Belgian economy, despite pouring $1.5 billion into the takeover attempt. He was beaten out for control by Compagnie de Suez.
Other woes have consumed his energy. In recent years, he has faced spreading legal entanglements as investigators examined Olivetti's role in the bribes-for-official-favors scandals that have shaken Italy. Mr. de Benedetti also faced criminal and civil trials in cases involving the 1980's collapse of the Banco Ambrosiano. Last week, he was embarrassed when transcripts of confidential phone conversations with the former chief corruption prosecutor, Antonio Di Pietro, were published.
Mr. de Benedetti has faced corporate challenges as Olivetti suffered painful divorces from two promising business partners, AT&T and the Digital Equipment Corporation.
While most of Olivetti's businesses, which also include supplying and servicing complex computer systems and making and selling office machinery, are profitable, Mr. Passera says the two main sources of Olivetti's losses are its net debt -- $500 million at the end of 1995 -- and the failure of its personal computer business to make a profit against tough European market leaders like Compaq and I.B.M.
Mr. de Benedetti continues to define personal computers as strategic, though he adds that if the business cannot make a pretax profit this year, it will be shut down. "We are not prepared to lose more money," he said.
Yet it was less Olivetti's loyalty to the personal computer business than the promise of a future in telecommunications that lured investors in December, analysts say. At the heart of that strategy is Omnitel, Italy's second mobile-phone operator, which Olivetti controls with a group of international partners including Bell Atlantic.
Analysts who recommend Olivetti argue that most of the present share price reflects, in effect, the value of the telecommunications business.


GRAPHIC: Olivetti's profitability and share price have slumped as the company attempts to transform itself into a telecommuniciations giant from a computer company. "We are not prepared to lose more money," says Carlo de Benedetti, right, the chairman. Despite fewer employees, growth is modest and profit has dropped.
Graph: "One Company's Woes"
 Graphs track revenue, net profit, and worldwide employment at Olivetti from 1990 through 1995. Also shown is a percentage breakdown of the company's sales demonstrating how various departments at Olivetti compare with respect to the company's overall profitablility. (Source: Company reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OLVTY (OTC) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: OLIVETTI SPA OLIVETTI SPA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: OLIVETTI SPA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES ELECTRONICS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN; DE BENEDETTI, CARLO CARLO DE BENEDETTI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



770 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: A New Gulf in American Education, the Digital Divide

BYLINE: By GARY ANDREW POOLE 

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif.

 BODY:
At the bottom of the ramp here on the west side of town, two exits down Highway 280 from Apple Computer's headquarters, you can turn left and within a few blocks arrive at the Harker School, a pricey and prestigious private elementary and junior high school. Turn right, drive a mile or so, and you're near Anderson Elementary, a public school attended by children of one of the region's poorest communities.
John Dixon, a freckle-faced fifth grader at Anderson Elementary, calls himself a computer buff. But he must make do with the school's six-year-old I.B.M. 386 PC's, which are little more than electric typewriters compared with the multimedia machines he wishes the school could afford, "so we could look up stuff on the encyclopedia and see pictures." 
 A computer buff with distinctly better opportunities is Michael Giardina, a sixth grader at Harker, who uses the latest Apple Power Macintosh at school to manage his own World Wide Web page. He also surfs the Web for information on research topics like deforestation, sends his teachers E-mail with questions about homework and snickers over his friends' multimedia spoof of a television commercial about wigs.
"I'll probably go to Stanford this summer and take a programming class," said Michael, who is already teaching himself C, a software programming language.
The digital divide between these two schools in the heart of Silicon Valley provides perhaps the most striking example anywhere in the nation of a widening gap -- between children who are being prepared for lives and careers in the information age, and those who may find themselves held back.
At Harker, the children of the affluent are being prepared from an early age to take their place in the region's economy. At Anderson, students from rental properties and federally financed housing projects -- many of them the children of Mexican, Vietnamese, Pakistani and, most recently, Bosnian immigrants -- can hope, at best, for a basic traditional education.
"We don't need to tell parents, 'Computers are a way out,' " said Virginia Luhring, coordinator of Anderson's technology curriculum, who supplemented her self-taught computer skills with computer courses offered by the school district. "They understand that. But technology is not the highest thing on their priority list. Parents around here are worried about feeding their kids, not the latest software release."
Computers in schools, all schools, has become one of the hottest -- and most hotly debated -- education topics of the 1990's.
"We're facing a new illiteracy -- computer illiteracy," said Malcolm Cohen, author of "Labor Shortages: As America Approaches the 21st Century" (University of Michigan Press). "Many, many children won't be prepared for the work force, because they can't use computers."
President Clinton envisions connecting every school to the Internet by the year 2000. But at present, only 3 percent of the nation's classrooms have Internet connections, according to Quality Education Data Inc., a research group in Denver. Linking all the classrooms could cost $30 billion or more, plus at least $5 billion in annual operating expenses -- a combined figure that is more than the yearly budget of the Department of Education.
Few people expect such sums to be appropriated on the Federal level in the current budgetary climate, and even local schools in better financial circumstances than Anderson may have trouble coming up with computer money on their own.
Anderson, where nearly half of the 510 students are eligible for the Federal free-lunch program, qualifies for various grants, some of which can be spent on information technology. But such money can only go so far.
At Harker, for example, many of the students' parents work in the computer industry and freely lend technical expertise to the school. They also can buy computers for the school with an employee discount. Many of Harker's students cruise the Internet in a class taught by Sharon Meyers, who is married to an Intel Corporation engineer and was a Microsoft manager before she became a teacher a few years ago.
Those sorts of links are not available to Anderson.
"We have access to grants, but we don't have access to communities," said Barry Vitcov, Anderson's principal. He is hoping to find money for an Internet account for the school before the end of the academic year, but he worries about the cost at a time when there are other concerns, like fixing the school's roof, which leaks during downpours.
At Harker, ready access to the Internet abets "inquiry-based learning," a teaching philosophy in vogue among progressive schools. It is a departure from the traditional classroom, where the teacher imparted an established body of knowledge to students who would be judged by their ability to absorb and repeat the basic skills and facts conveyed to them.
In the new approach, students and teachers alike embark on a more open-ended inquiry. So if students are writing reports on Bosnia, for instance, they exchange E-mail with policy experts, participate in on-line foreign affairs forums and download images from CNN's Web site.
At Anderson, where teachers often are simply trying to communicate with children who may speak any of 19 languages at home, the old PC's are generally outfitted with software that emphasizes repetitive drills in reading and arithmetic.
There have always been educational gulfs between poor and rich schools, of course, but some experts contend that computer technology accentuates the differences.
"The way computers are used in the classroom -- and the way the Internet will change their use -- is really a profound commentary on education," said Michael Kirst, a professor of education at Stanford University. "The Internet is a prophetic example: richer kids with access to a home computer and to the Internet can use it as a means of exploration and discovery. Poorer kids without the Internet will just use a computer, in the classroom, for drill-and-practice exercises."
Diana F. Nichols, the headmistress at Harker, where tuition alone runs $10,000 a student, recognizes that when it comes to computers, like so many other things, her students have special advantages not available to children at public schools like Anderson.
"We believe the future of the nation goes the way of public schools," Ms. Nichols said. "I want to see all children have the same opportunities as Harker students have. But unfortunately it's not going that way."
Private industry can help, but schools are a government responsibility, said Edward R. McCracken, chairman of one of the Valley's success stories, Silicon Graphics Inc., which has contributed $1 million to a local school-computer philanthropic program.
Mr. McCracken is co-chairman of a task force commissioned by President Clinton, which concludes in a soon-to-be-released report that the nation needs to spend $150 billion over the next decade to provide adequate information technology for its public schools. But the commission recommends that state and local governments foot the bill through tax increases and bond measures.
"The initiative puts pressure on local school boards," Mr. McCracken said. "We didn't try and solve the problems of poverty. We believe that's up to the process of government."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Computer use varies widely at schools across the nation. At Anderson Elementary in San Jose, Calif., pupils use six-year-old PC's that pale in comparison to the multimedia units used at the nearby Harker School. (Gary Parker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (74%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (74%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (74%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (74%); ANDERSON ELEMENTARY (93%); HARKER SCHOOL (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANDERSON ELEMENTARY (93%); HARKER SCHOOL (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); LABOR PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); HOMEWORK (77%); CURRICULA (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); REAL ESTATE (70%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (70%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (70%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (65%); RENTAL PROPERTY (62%); 

PERSON: POOLE, GARY ANDREW; COHEN, MALCOLM

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



771 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Labor's Declining Power To Call and Win Strikes
In an economy characterized by large-scale layoffs and growing insecurity, American workers are increasingly reluctant to strike. The number of strikes last year fell to the lowest level since World War II; there were 32 strikes involving 1,000 workers or more, half the number of a decade ago.
The decline results from factors ranging from companies' growing ability to operate during a strike, a surge in labor-management teamwork and management's use of permanent replacement workers. [Page A1.]
 
Communications Vote Expected
House and Senate Republicans will try to pass the stalled communications bill this week, hoping they have resolved a dispute among themselves over provisions that reserve a valuable parcel of the nation's airwaves for digital TV services. [D2.]
 
Olivetti in Flux
Olivetti has been taking its stockholders on a wild and unpleasant ride in recent weeks, as its shares fell to 914 lire from nearly 1,300 last month. Carlo De Benedetti, Olivetti's chairman, is counting on its new mobile-phone system to save the day, as the company works to transform itself into a telecommunications giant. [D3.]
 
Limited to Repurchase Shares
Limited Inc. announced a $1.6 billion stock buyback. The offer would cover up almost a quarter of the retailer's outstanding shares, but would not include those held by Leslie H. Wexner, its chairman. [D2.]
 
The Euro's Fitful Birth
A single European currency by the end of the 1990's is a goal that, to some, seems as distant today as German unity did at the beginning of the 1980's. But while the fall of Communism made possible the reunification of Germany in 1990, a reversal in European economic growth could force national leaders to put off a common currency -- the Euro -- into the next decade. News analysis. [A7.]

Libel Suit in Court
Mike McAlary, a columnist for The New York Daily News, and the newspaper will seek the dismissal today of a $12 million libel suit over a 1994 column by Mr. McAlary contending that a woman had falsified a claim of rape. To many libel experts and media executives, the case's most unusual element is that the judge ruled last summer that the woman, whose name has not appeared in any mainstream publication, was a public figure in part because she disputed the column. [B1.]
 
Computer Haves and Have-Nots
The disparity in the computer equipment available for students at rich and poor school districts in the Silicon Valley is a stark example of a widening gap between children who are being prepared for lives and careers in the information age and those who may find themselves held back. [D3.]
 
Campaign '96 in Cyberspace
Three new Internet services for fans of politics are being introduced in the next week, allowing citizens to follow the campaign and review the grist of news reports, including scripts of ads, videotapes of candidates' appearances -- even copies of their tax returns. [D4.]
 
December Tool Orders Surge
Orders for American machine tools rose 16.8 percent in December, ending a year in which orders reached their highest levels since 1979, a trade association said. [D7.]
 
Germans Press 2d On-Line Service
For the second time in two months, Germany put pressure on a commercial on-line service provider to block access to Internet material authorities consider illegal. [D6.]
 
Apple Said to Weigh New Agencies
The tumult surrounding Apple Computer extends to its ad agency relationships. According to agency executives, Apple officials have begun talking to several shops. The worldwide Apple account has been handled by BBDO West in Los Angeles since 1985. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LTD (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448190 OTHER CLOTHING STORES (68%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (68%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (68%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: LIMITED BRANDS INC (68%); LIMITED BRANDS INC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LIBEL & SLANDER (85%); LITIGATION (85%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); STRIKES (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); EURO (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CHILDREN (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (68%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); WRITERS (61%); JUDGES (61%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); WORLD WAR II (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); 

PERSON: LESLIE H WEXNER (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



772 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3137 words

HEADLINE: FLIGHT TO NOWHERE: A SPECIAL REPORT;
AMBITIOUS UPDATE OF AIR NAVIGATION BECOMES A FIASCO

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28

 BODY:
Stymied by mismanagement, the Federal Aviation Administration has squandered 15 years and at least half a billion dollars on a new air traffic control system that is still years from completion and already obsolete.
In 1981, when President Ronald Reagan dismissed 11,000 striking air traffic controllers, the Government pledged to replace many of them by overhauling and modernizing the system that guides planes from takeoff to landing. 
 But today, in aging control centers across the country, overworked controllers direct tens of thousands of flights each day with the same screens that were out of date 15 years ago. So fragile is the equipment that technicians who open it for maintenance fear doing more harm than good. During breakdowns, which are more and more frequent, controllers carry slips of paper around darkened control rooms or read commands aloud, instead of sending computer messages or clicking on symbols on a screen. At such times, skill and luck substitute for technology.
Even when the system works, controllers are using screens so old that they "look like all the 'Victory at Sea' movies," as the head of the biggest pilots union, J. Randolph Babbitt, has put it.
Both the F.A.A. and the airlines say there have been no accidents they would attribute to system breakdowns. But about two dozen times in the last two years, the 25-year-old mainframes that drive the controllers' screens at five of the busiest centers have failed, delaying hundreds of planes each time, sometimes for hours. In Chicago, at the busiest center, there were seven failures last year alone, including three in mid-July.
The major airlines say that even when things run normally, there are about 20,000 delays a day due to air traffic control. Although most are short, the delays cost them up to $5 billion a year, the airlines say.
A study released last week by the National Transportation Safety Board also says that the system is safe but that its inefficiencies drive up the cost of airline operations and delay travelers.
The F.A.A.'s struggle to rebuild the air traffic control system illustrates how the Government's best intentions can be defeated when there is a constantly changing bureaucracy with a dearth of leaders who can manage complex projects.
Describing the agency's efforts, George R. Meinig Jr., a retired admiral who was part of an independent team brought in by the F.A.A. to evaluate what had gone wrong, said, "They needed some adult supervision along the way."
Senator William S. Cohen, Republican of Maine, who serves on the Committee on Governmental Affairs, said: "The F.A.A. is a victim of its own poor management. If the agency devoted more time to managing itself and less time to defending its deficiencies, the air traffic control system would have been replaced years ago."
Interviews with current and former agency officials and a review of Government documents show that the agency allocated billions of dollars to update the system and hired outside experts to help. Over the years officials labored hard on the project, which the F.A.A. regarded as the key to its future. But the records and interviews also portray an agency overwhelmed by technical problems, making ambitious and expensive plans in search of the perfect system, only to abandon them upon realizing they could not be pulled off.
 
The Vision
Hopes of Saving A Lot of Money
The F.A.A. initially planned to save money by consolidating controllers into about 20 large centers, from more than 250 smaller ones. But after four years of work and hundreds of millions of dollars, officials discarded the idea. Consolidation required different hardware and software, and the shift wasted thousands of hours of effort.
"By the time you build what they wanted, they changed it and they want something else," said Gerald W. Ebker, who headed the division of the International Business Machines Corporation -- since sold to the defense contractor Loral Federal Systems -- that was selected to write the software.
At other times, I.B.M. also had problems separating the practical from the impossible. The new system it promised to build was supposed to replay past events, like a videocassette player, at 10 times normal speed, as an aid in analyzing traffic patterns and controller errors. But I.B.M. later said that was impossible. The agency, however, stuck to its guns and insisted on the capability, driving up the project's costs. Only much later did the agency realize that such a playback speed was unnecessary.
F.A.A. officials "somehow or other don't seem to know how to do research and development and acquire things," said Charles A. Fowler, a software expert on the independent team, which was from the CNA Corporation, a consulting group.
F.A.A. officials counter that I.B.M., which won the $3.6 billion contract to replace the system and repeatedly failed to produce working software, shares in the blame, a position CNA endorses. In hindsight, everybody agrees that the F.A.A. should have recognized the problems sooner.
Thomas C. Richards, a retired Air Force general who was the F.A.A. Administrator in the last seven months of the Bush Administration, said, "Given the amount of money involved and the importance of modernization, it should have been the No. 1 priority." But he added, "People were clearly not focused." Mr. Richards said he was in office long enough to know the project was not working, but not long enough to fix it.
Finally, in 1994, David R. Hinson, the F.A.A. Administrator, pulled the plug on the original replacement project, called the Advanced Automation System, accepting that about $500 million had been spent on software that would never be used. He authorized a slimmed-down plan, an $898 million contract to deliver about 1,000 new screens and workstations for the 3,200 controllers in the 20 largest centers, beginning in 1998.
That plan, managers say, is on track. But agency officials acknowledge that the system makes no provision for incorporating new satellite-based technology that could shorten almost every flight.
Industry experts say the failure to set an achievable goal at the beginning and follow through has been a devastating setback.
"The failure of the Advanced Automation System is going to be with the F.A.A. for a long time," said Maurice F. Connor, who became director of safety and technology at the controllers union a year ago.
"They spent 10 years fooling around with it, and now in 1995, David Hinson said quite bravely that this thing is a turkey and we're finished with it," Mr. Connor said. "It's going to take another 10 years before we get to where we should have been in 1995."
 
The Vision
A Strike Fosters An Ambitious Plan
When President Reagan dismissed the 11,000 striking air traffic controllers in 1981, calling in substitutes, F.A.A. officials decided that they had to be able to run the system with fewer people and more sophisticated equipment. In addition, because of deregulation of the airlines and a healthy economy, air traffic was growing so fast that it was threatening to overwhelm the system. And so the Advanced Automation System was conceived.
A former F.A.A. official who served during the project's early stages said it was born about the same time as the Strategic Defense Initiative, the Reagan Administration's space-based missile-defense system.
"You've got a Government saying, 'Throw a ton of money at it, get a technofix, and have the biggest of the big do it,' " he said. "Then you have this bureaucracy at F.A.A. say to I.B.M., 'You do it; you figure it out.' "
Under the new plan, the overall method of directing air traffic would remain the same: controllers would tell pilots which way, how fast and at what altitude to fly by reading radar data, the flight plans filed by pilots before takeoff, information radioed from the planes, and weather information. But the new system would be so technologically advanced that it would allow controllers to "work smarter, not harder," said T. Allan McArtor, the F.A.A. Administrator in the beginning of the project. And, the agency promised, the new system would save $4.5 billion in labor costs over its life.
The Government solicited proposals, evaluated the results at great length and, in 1982, picked two companies, I.B.M. and Hughes Electronics, as possible contractors. It paid them a total of $450 million for a "fly-off," in which each would build a demonstration model of a proposed system. The F.A.A. set a target date of 1990 for beginning installation of the new system.
Early in 1988 I.B.M. won the contract, with its several hundred pages of specifications. The contract was the biggest from the Department of Transportation, of which the F.A.A. is a part. It was also the biggest that I.B.M. had ever received.
As is usual in such cases, Hughes appealed, and work had to stop until the appeal was resolved. The writing of the detailed software that would be the heart of the new system did not get started until October 1988. It had taken seven years to write the specifications and hire a contractor.
Writing the new software was an extremely complicated process requiring scores of programmers. But almost as soon as it began, it went awry, the CNA report said. I.B.M. let the programmers work independently, failing to coordinate their work, the report said, and the F.A.A. never noticed the problem until it was too late.
"Everybody was doing their own little bit, but no one was sewing it together," said William E. Smith, a member of the CNA team. The software factory resembled "a hobby shop," he said, with programmers wandering off on their own into whatever interested them.
But Mr. Ebker, the I.B.M. official, who has since retired, said the problem was not coordination within his organization, but a stream of changing orders from the F.A.A. "If people could have just left it alone, I think we would have delivered," he said.
By December 1990, 30 months into the project, it was 19 months behind schedule.
Not only were the programmers writing pieces of software that would not fit smoothly together, but they were also concocting a system that did not do all the things the agency said it had been promised, the CNA report said.
For example, the F.A.A. said the system had to be capable of "continuous operations," or updating the software while the software was running. But I.B.M. officials say they did not realize that was a requirement, even though the specifications referred to it.
"We were five years into the concept when continuous ops was sprung on us," Mr. Ebker said. "Even if it's obliquely in the specs, it was news to us." That misunderstanding added $350 million to the cost.
The independent report partly blamed I.B.M. for the failure to point out problems like that before they required expensive solutions, saying that the financial terms of the contract gave the company an incentive to stretch out the work.
"They had a key to the U.S. mint," said Robert S. Cooper, a participant in the study. "The cost of the program was going up at the same rate as expenditures, and no progress was being made. It was just a way of funneling money through I.B.M. Federal Systems and raking off whatever the percentage was."
Mr. Ebker said I.B.M. also lost money because of the delays. But he added, "Sure, I.B.M. should have stepped forward earlier and much more forcefully."
But Joseph W. Del Balzo, a 36-year veteran of the F.A.A. who was the Acting Administrator from January until August 1993, when he retired to become an aviation consultant, blames the F.A.A.'s structure, which he said did not reward people for coming forward early with pessimistic assessments. As a result, he said, problems became obvious only very late.
"Program managers are by nature very optimistic -- 'We're going to solve this problem by the end of the week,' " he said. " 'The last thing I want is my boss helping me, looking over my shoulder.' "
The F.A.A. has attributed much of its problems to complex Federal procurement and personnel procedures. Last fall Mr. Hinson told Congress that those procedures prevented the agency from hiring the experts it needed, because it could not pay salaries to compete with private industry. Congress has since exempted the F.A.A. from nearly all the procurement rules, but not everyone is convinced this will help.
"Regrettably, Congress bought the argument that Federal procurement and personnel policies have prevented the F.A.A. from modernizing the air traffic control systems," Senator Cohen said. "But Federal policies are not the problem." It was poor management, Mr. Cohen said.
By the early 1990's, with each month that passed, the completion date slipped three and a half weeks into the future, F.A.A. program managers say. Meanwhile, costs more than doubled, to $7.6 billion, as the project's goals expanded and each goal became tougher to achieve. The independent report said that by early 1994, the program was "schedule-driven, with little regard for the quality of the product."
 
The Problems
Colliding Opinions, Unrealistic Goals
A major problem, one that dogged the project from the start, was the agency's inability to decide what it wanted the new system to be, the independent report found.
For example, the agency reached for the sky with the plan to consolidate its 254 terminal radar approach controls -- installations known as tracons that take jurisdiction over planes when they leave the immediate vicinity of an airport -- into its 20 air traffic control centers, which handle high-altitude, long-distance flights.
But consolidation would have reduced the ability of the sites to pinch-hit for each other, and thus would have created much higher computing demands in a single installation. I.B.M. gamely set out to do the job, but most of its effort was wasted because in 1992, after four years of work, the F.A.A. dropped nearly all the consolidation plans. The reason was apparently nontechnical: closing anything the F.A.A. operates is about as easy politically as closing a post office or a military base.
"You can't hardly close anything we have," Mr. Hinson said in an interview.
The F.A.A. could also not decide how information about airplanes would be manipulated on the controllers' screens.
The contract specified that blocks of text on the controllers' screens be movable, but did not say how. For controllers, how the text blocks were to be moved was a point of major concern because it would affect their work routines, and it was a subject on which they had divergent views.
"You get 100 controllers, you're going to get 120 opinions on something," said Will Faville, who represented the controllers union in the development process.
I.B.M. designed a system with a block that could be moved only with several keystrokes on the keyboard. But most controllers preferred a system more like the current one -- in which they move the text block with a button they can feel near the screen, without having to look away from the screen -- and they pressured the F.A.A. to get I.B.M. to change the new software.
As more software was developed, the controllers had other complaints. Management, too, was dissatisfied with much of the emerging system. Over all, there were 290 changes that required modifications to the contract, and hundreds of smaller changes, each increasing the total cost.
Another problem that doomed the project was the F.A.A.'s inability to distinguish pipe dreams of the perfect system from affordable, achievable features.
For example, the agency insisted that the new system have a reliability of 99.99999 percent, called seven nines, which meant, in theory, that it would work all but three seconds a year. But some engineers doubt that such reliability is achievable.
"Whether or not it was realistic, I don't think anyone analyzed," Mr. Del Balzo said.
An engineer brought in by the F.A.A. to help with the project, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said, "We were asking I.B.M. to do things in that A.A.S. system that actually violated the laws of physics."
Today the F.A.A. acknowledges that seven-nines reliability is not necessary. And by 1994, when Mr. Hinson scaled down the program, the agency had decided to state the reliability goal more flexibly.
But by initially insisting on such a high level of reliability, the F.A.A. missed the opportunity to put in place a system that would be vastly more trustworthy than the one in operation now.
"The F.A.A. is so risk averse, it is shod with this idea, 'We can't field anything until it's absolutely perfect,' " said Mr. Richards, the Administrator in 1992.
 
The Future
A Better System, But Still a Beat Behind
For top F.A.A. officials, the project was a long-term headache that was easy to overlook and pass on. J. Lynn Helms, who began the project in 1981, left office on Jan. 31, 1984, the end of the first Reagan term. Between his departure and Mr. Hinson's arrival on Aug. 10, 1993, there were three other administrators, and the office was vacant for 20 months.
Under the plan Mr. Hinson initiated in 1994, the new goal is to use hardware and software of the mid-1990's to do the same work as the existing equipment, which is from the early 1970's.
And although Loral Federal Systems, which bought the division of I.B.M. that was producing the software, continues to work on new equipment, the F.A.A. has decided to buy commercial off-the-shelf equipment to update other parts of the aging system. It has already purchased a control center for lower-altitude traffic in California.
But Mr. Hinson's efforts may not be enough to bring the F.A.A. into the 21st century. Experts say that even when the new system is finished, it will be very far from the cutting edge.
The most accurate way to determine an airplane's position now is through the Global Positioning System, in which a sensor on the plane uses satellite signals to calculate position precisely. Global positioning allows planes to fly straight from one airport to the next, rather than the way the F.A.A. directs them, from one imaginary point in the sky to the next, following a system of radio beacons that dates from 1941.
The F.A.A. has not based its new system on global positioning, which did not exist when the modernization project began.
But the agency knows it must eventually use such satellite technology. Global positioning will make it easy for planes to set their own direct courses, which would shave minutes and miles off nearly every flight.
The slimmed-down project initiated by Mr. Hinson is a step in the right direction, experts say, because even if it does not provide many new functions, it uses equipment that could eventually accommodate new features like global positioning.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Piccola at work at the terminal radar approach control in Westbury, L.I., at one of the outdated terminals the Government has been trying to replace for years. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) (pg. A14)
 
Diagrams (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: IBM (NYSE) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL; RADAR; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (94%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (93%); CIVIL AVIATION (93%); AIRLINES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (79%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); STRIKES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



773 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: Tax Stock Trades to Close New York Budget Gap

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "More Budget Woes for the City" (editorial, Jan. 23): 
 You call on Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani "to rethink some of his basic assumptions" about how to close another budget gap of $2 billion. But the guidance you offer is to defer unnamed tax cuts, review real estate levies and pare the already mean levels of health care spending.
Surely the real alternative is to raise revenues from the sectors of the city economy that have brought unprecedented prosperity to the wealthy. In Manhattan in 1990, the richest one-fifth earned $174,486 a year and the poorest one-fifth $5,435. This gap has tripled since 1980, and no other city can match it.
The schools, welfare and infrastructure need $2 billion for urgent capital repairs, let alone bare-bone operating costs. And the city's human economy cannot afford further excise or sales taxes.
But a transfer tax on trading on the stock exchanges, after the sensational 1995 boom, could realize $1 billion or more. A tax on services would not drive the wealthiest lawyers, accountants, brokers and advertisers out of business. Or out of town.
Conventional wisdom holds that "tax and spend" liberals have ruined the economy. But Gov. George E. Pataki and the Mayor are planning to multiply social inequities with their priorities. The havoc they wreak will not be slowed until slashing is again linked to a progressive mode of taxation.
 
WALTER GOLDSTEIN
Albany, Jan. 4, 1996
The writer is a professor emeritus, SUNY Albany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); MAYORS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); SALES TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); EXCISE TAX (76%); TAX LAW (76%); WRITERS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); LIBERALISM (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (67%); 

PERSON: GOLDSTEIN, WALTER (PROF) RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



774 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: For Anxious Workers: Wage-Hour Reforms

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his Jan. 19 column, "Separation Anxiety," Bob Herbert is right about the cruelty of layoffs. But how empty is his solution in calling for a Presidential campaign that "would address the tyrannical power of the great corporations." 
 That would kill the technological progress that enables the economy to move our country toward a better life for all. Better to put teeth in our wage-hour laws in the manufacturing sector by specifying overtime pay of double time instead of the time and a half now required, and then demand the double time pay go into effect after 37 1/2 hours instead of 40.
In an economy in which more than twice as high a proportion of women are working than 35 years ago, shorter hours would give parents the "family time" so urgently needed by many of our youngsters who have drifted into drugs and crime. It would also decisively answer the "separation anxiety" Bob Herbert lightly cites.
 
WILLIAM PROXMIRE
Washington, Jan. 19, 1996
The writer was Senator from Wisconsin from 1957 to 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; CORPORATIONS LAYOFFS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (70%); 

PERSON: PROXMIRE, WILLIAM; HERBERT, BOB WILLIAM PROXMIRE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



775 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Even in Peace, a Family Is Balkanized

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: BRCKO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Jan. 24

 BODY:
As children, Irena Tomic and her cousin Tanya Madjarevic played with Barbie dolls together. They were best friends by the time they were adolescents, enjoying summer weekends around the swimming pool at Miss Tomic's house in the wooded hills outside Tuzla.
But the two have been unable to see each other since the war divided them nearly four years ago. 
 Miss Tomic, 19, who dreams of becoming an elementary-school teacher, is a refugee living with her parents and teen-age brother in a one-bedroom apartment with electricity only every other day, and silt-thick water. The nine-story building has no heat, which is why other tenants were chopping firewood out front, surrounded by a war-ravaged neighborhood in this city on the Sava River.
Miss Madjarevic, 16, still lives in her family's modern two-story house in Tuzla, not far from the high-rise apartment building where her cousin lived before the war. Only 30 miles separate the families, but the war has created a chasm between people in this country.
"It is the United States Government's position that without returning the displaced people back to their homes, there will be war again," Terry Leary, an official with the United States Agency for International Development, said recently at a conference of international relief organizations in the city of Zenica.
It is a Sisyphean task. Assuming that foreign countries come up with the hundreds of millions of dollars needed for repairing houses so that the displaced have something to return to, the boulder of hatred generated by the war is poised to roll over the ideal.
There are about a million displaced people inside Bosnia, says the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and another million Bosnians are refugees in Europe. About 400,000 of the refugees in Bosnia are Serbs like the Tomics. If the Tomics cannot go home to Tuzla, which under the Dayton peace agreement is included in the territory controlled by the Muslim-Croat federation, it is difficult to envision an integrated Bosnia.
Tuzla has a proud history of being one of the most tolerant communities in the former Yugoslavia. Miss Tomic's lanky brother, Mladen, 15, remembers playing basketball with Croats and Muslims, and nobody cared, or even knew, who was what. In Tuzla even today, his uncle, Vlado Madjarevic, is a director of the Zrinski basketball club, named after a Croatian count, and half of the players are Muslims. Mr. Madjarevic, a Croat, is married to Miss Tomic's father's sister, who is a Serb.
The Tomics said they might go home if they had jobs and an apartment to go to. But there are few jobs in this country after nearly four years of war, which followed four decades of Communism. Miss Tomic's mother, Jelica, who was head nurse in the hospital in Tuzla for 20 years, works as an X-ray technician at the Brcko hospital for 20 German marks, about $13.50, a month.
Just this week, Miss Tomic's father, Miladin, deploying every bit of English he could muster, succeeded in getting a job as an interpreter with an American Army unit stationed nearby. Mr. Tomic, a research engineer before the war, is happy that he will be paid 200 German marks, or $135, a month.
As for the Tomics' finding a place to live in Tuzla, that raises the Gordian knot of the refugee return program. Mass movements and extensive destruction have created another obstacle.
The Tomics cannot return to their house outside the city, because it has been badly damaged by mortar shells. And their apartment was first occupied by Muslim refugees, and now by a Croat whom the local government gave it to.
In Tuzla there are some 60,000 refugees living in houses that will have to vacated before the owners can return. But many cannot go back to their own homes because those are destroyed.
Throughout Bosnia, 72,000 housing units were destroyed and 250,000 damaged during the war, says the International Management Group, a nonprofit organization working with the World Bank on the reconstruction program for Bosnia.
The Bosnian Government says it will cost $2 billion to repair war-damaged houses. The International Management Group estimates the cost at $1 billion; the World Bank has budgeted $600 million.
Regardless of the housing situation, 3,000 to 5,000 Serbs are ready to return to Tuzla, said Milos Bosic, president of the Serb Citizens Council there. "All they need is somebody to guarantee their security," he said.
At first, Mr. Bosic said, he thought the NATO peacekeeping forces were going to do that, but he has learned that providing security for returning refugees is not one of their missions. In any case, war-embittered anger is an obstacle to a refugee return program. Tuzla, for example, is no longer the tolerant city it once was.
Miss Tomic's aunt, Milojka Madjarevic, begins to cry when she asks a visitor what her brother looks like now, after having not seen him in four years.
Still, Mrs. Madjarevic said that even if her brother and his wife could find jobs and a place to live, "it wound not be very smart" for them to return to Tuzla, not because of physical danger, but because of the way they would be treated.
Her husband explained: "The demography of Tuzla has changed." Now there are many Muslims living there after being forced from their homes by the Serbs. "They are bitter," Mr. Madjarevic said. "They carry this bitterness with them."
Their daughter, Tanya, remembered that before the war she had many Muslim and Croatian girl friends, and no one talked about anyone's background.
Now, she said, "they are not looking at me as nicely as they did before -- they ignore me."
While her mother was packing a microwave oven and other items to be taken to the Tomic family in Brcko, Miss Madjarevic said she would like to send a message to her cousin Irena Tomic.
"Tell her that I miss her a lot," she said, "and I hope I will see her soon."
When she received the message, Miss Tomic cried. "I'd like to see my cousin Tanya," she said. "I love her so much."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Bosnian war forced Irena Tomic, left, to flee her home near Tuzla and become a refugee in Brcko along with her father, mother and brother. Despite the Dayton peace agreement, returning with her Serbian family and being reunited with her cousin Tanya Madjarevic, below, is not a simple matter.; Tanya Madjarevic, whose father is a Croat and mother a Serb, has remained in Tuzla and longs to see her cousin Irena Tomic again. (Photographs by Mannie Garcia for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (96%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REFUGEES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (78%); CIVIL WAR (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BASKETBALL (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); RELIGION (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); NURSES & NURSING (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BONNER, RAYMOND IRENA TOMIC (92%); TANYA MADJAREVIC (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



776 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 29, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Budget Path For Whitman Is Independent

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 28

 BODY:
For a year now, Republicans have remarked happily about how the first-term Republican Governors of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have seemed to be running their administrations from the same political playbook.
New Jersey's Governor, Christine Todd Whitman, first among the three to gain office, promised to cut taxes and to streamline state regulations to restrain the growth of government spending. Governors George E. Pataki of New York and John S. Rowland of Connecticut duly followed suit in each particular. Together, they have secured a place on the Republican Party's list of promising young leaders. 
 Yet, the outline of Mrs. Whitman's $16 billion budget for 1997, which she is to detail on Monday, shows one distinct area where the New Jerseyan parts company with her neighbors.
On social welfare issues, where Mr. Pataki and Mr. Rowland have redrawn the landscape according to their political vision, Mrs. Whitman has taken the approach of a preservationist.
Where her neighbors have used the budget to press broad ideological campaigns to revamp programs for the needy, Mrs. Whitman has been able to pick and choose from a broad range of Republican opinion, taking a more moderate approach that maintains and even enlarges some social programs.
Mr. Rowland has driven through the country's most restrictive welfare eligibility limits, and Mr. Pataki plans to cut welfare benefits and sharply curtail Home Relief for able-bodied childless adults. Mrs. Whitman, in contrast, has striven to protect benefit levels while improving medical care and educational opportunities for welfare mothers, and has even criticized her Democratic predecessor, Jim Florio, for denying additional stipends for children born to mothers on welfare.
While Mrs. Whitman proposes to reduce New Jersey's generous prescription drug program for the elderly, she would eliminate only those with assets over $50,000, not counting a house or car.
She wants to cut $54 million from the state colleges and universities but found an additional $24 million for scholarships that would help 2,600 low-income students.
She proposes to cut state school aid for some of the richest suburban districts and to freeze aid for most others, but proposes to increase funds for the state's 21 poorest school systems.
Peter Verniero, the Governor's chief of staff, explained this approach without ambiguity: "Our guiding principle in preparing the budget has been to balance the needs of various constituency groups with the needs of taxpayers," he said. "Under that standard, this budget is both prudent and fair."
One group of people who will feel the edge of Mrs. Whitman's budget knife will be the 814 state workers to be laid off, a cut the Governor needs to meet her goal of showing a net decrease in spending compared with the current year. It is a reduction of barely 1 percent in a work force of 62,740.
State worker union leaders point out that under the state's seniority bumping rights, the people most likely to lose their jobs would be mostly women and minorities, and the Governor has acknowledged this.
She justifies the layoffs, just as she justified diminishing the living standards of state workers whose departments were turned over to private management last year, with an argument that is more managerial than ideological: unnecessary or overexpensive state employees harm everyone -- particularly low-income taxpayers, she has often said, by forcing up state spending.
Perhaps in compensation, the Governor devotes the largest share of a proposed $100 million economic development program to a staple of Democratic Party economic thinking, the retraining of workers for the new information-based economy.
Mrs. Whitman's social moderation, when compared to Mr. Pataki and Mr. Rowland, may be all the more noteworthy for the fact that she is the only one of the three Gpvernors whose party controls both houses of the legislature. In New York, the Assembly is heavily Democratic and a constant brake on Mr. Pataki's agenda, while the Democrats have a one-vote majority in the Connecticut State Senate, forcing Mr. Rowland at least to consult with the opposition in a way that Mrs. Whitman has not even considered doing.
By dominating the Legislature with her personal popularity, Mrs. Whitman has managed to pick and choose the ideas she likes from the wide range of Republican opinion and to discard the rest, said Stephan A. Salmore, a Republican campaign consultant and Rutgers professor of politics.
"She has managed a very politically astute marriage of two wings of the Republican Party -- the sort of noblesse oblige or Rockefeller wing that always argued that it was the role of government to pick up the slack, and the fiscal conservatives who focus on money and tax issues," Mr. Salmore said. "She has managed this much to the consternation of her liberal critics, who have been expecting her to fail for some time now."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the New Jersey budget misstated the political makeup of the Connecticut State Senate. Republicans, not Democrats, have a one-vote majority. Democrats have a 31-vote majority in the House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT ; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WELFARE (US) GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); CHILDREN (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); LABOR FORCE (64%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996



777 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 4; Science Desk; Medical Science Page

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Regional Incongruity Found In Medical Costs and Treatments

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA 

 BODY:
A NEW study reports that medical care, adjusted for local costs of living, costs twice as much in some areas of the country as it does in others.
And the use of specific medical treatments, like surgery for breast cancer or prostate cancer, varies strikingly, depending on where a patient lives. For instance, in some parts of the country radical mastectomies were performed 33 times as often as breast-saving lumpectomies for women with breast cancer. 
 Previous reports have noted geographical differences in cost and in the kind of treatment provided. The new study, by Dr. John E. Wennberg of Dartmouth Medical School and his colleagues, is broader than previous studies. It is an analysis of Medicare data nationwide from 1993. These are records from people aged 65 and older who, for the most part, are not members of health maintenance organizations.
The researchers released their results yesterday in the form of a book, "The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care." It will be distributed by the American Hospital Association, which represents 5,000 hospitals and health systems, after April 30; the number for orders is (800) 242-2626.
Dr. Jack Lord, a senior adviser for medical affairs at the association, said: "Within the health care field, people had some sense that there were differences, but I don't think that anyone had any idea that the rate of variation was so great. A thirty-threefold difference in the rates of lumpectomies as compared to mastectomies -- that's simply staggering."
Neither this, nor other differences were due to differences in Medigap insurance, said Dr. Lord, because researchers looked only at so-called core services, which Medicare covers in full.
Dr. Wennberg and his colleagues said that studies had found no evidence that people who had more medical care, or who paid more for it, were healthier. But they found that prices and procedures varied enormously.
For example, the researchers found, Medicare costs per person for fee-for-service medicine were at least twice as high in Miami as they were in Lincoln, Neb., Minneapolis and Honolulu. In Miami, the most expensive region, the costs were $5,966 per enrollee. In Lincoln, the cheapest area in the country, the cost was $2,729. Other high-priced regions included New Orleans, Pittsburgh, Nashville, Baltimore, Birmingham and Los Angeles. The inexpensive regions included Buffalo, Albany and Arlington, Va. New York City is higher than average but is not among the highest priced.
Regions with high medical costs were not substituting high priced hospitalizations for inexpensive home health care, the investigators found. Instead, they were spending more on all kinds of health care, both charging more for the services they provided and providing more services.
In Miami, for example, Medicare reimbursements for doctors and laboratory tests, but not hospitalization, were $2,380 per enrollee for the calendar year -- the highest in the nation. The lowest rate, of $585, was in Minneapolis.
In general, said Dr. Lord, areas with the highest costs had the largest numbers of doctors and hospitals. "One of the themes of the atlas is that supply seems to be a driver of demand," he said. "As we see increases in the number of physicians and of hospital beds, there seems to be an increase in the use of resources and the cost of resources. This defies the economic laws we've been trained to think about -- that demand is a driver of supply."
The investigators also found that when there was more than one option for treating a medical condition, the treatment of choice varied enormously from region to region of the country.
This happened, for example, in the decision to perform breast-sparing surgery -- a lumpectomy or partial mastectomy, followed by radiation or chemotherapy -- rather than a mastectomy for women with breast cancer. It happened in decisions to remove a man's prostate gland when he had signs of early stage cancer rather than treat the cancer with radiation or do nothing until it showed signs of rapid growth. It happened in decisions to treat heart disease aggressively, with bypass surgery or angioplasty rather than with medications. It happened in decisions to operate on people with chronic back pain rather than to prescribe rest, weight loss and specific exercises.
For example, Dr. Wennberg and his colleagues found that rates of breast-sparing surgery among women with breast cancer varied from a low of 1.4 percent of breast cancer surgery in Rapid City, S.D., to a high of 48 percent in Elyria, Ohio. Yet, said Amy S. Langer, who is executive director of the National Alliance of Breast Cancer Organizations, a nonprofit information resource center, 80 percent of women with early stage breast cancer are "excellent candidates for breast conserving treatment."
They also found that a man with early stage prostate cancer was four times as likely to have his prostate gland removed if he lived in Salt Lake City than if he lived in Manhattan. A person with a herniated disk is seven times as likely to have back surgery in Kingsport, Tenn., as one in Provo, Utah.
These treatment differences, the researchers noted, occur when there is uncertainty about which method is best. "For conditions that we know how to treat, like hip fracture, everyone goes to the hospital and everyone stays in the hospital," said Dr. Therese A. Stukel, the group's statistician.
The regional variations in medical costs and in treatments are so pronounced that they could not have occurred by chance, said Dr. Bradley Efron, a statistician at Stanford University who developed the standard method for looking for such chance associations and who is not associated with the project.
Dr. Uwe E. Reinhardt, an economist at Princeton University, said the analysis raised real questions about what medical care should consist of and what it should cost. Doctors, he said, like to talk about the quality of care. But, he said, when you look at the price discrepancies you have to ask, "How can it be that 'the best medical care in the world' costs twice as much as the best medical care in the world?"
Medical care, Dr. Reinhardt said, "is driven by fads and the fads are regional." But, he added, "we don't call it fads -- we call it 'professional norms.' "
Dr. Wennberg said, and others agreed, that doctors rather than patients were calling the shots. "Patients are used to delegating decision making to physicians," he said. And, he said, when there is uncertainty about what procedure is best, "there are very few places where information is placed forward in an unbiased way to the patient."
One explanation of the results is that specialists tend to cluster in particular geographic regions -- orthopedic surgeons are found in the West, for example -- and the more specialists in an area, the more they might be expected to perform procedures. But that is not the entire explanation, doctors said. Dr. Robert Boyd, chief of orthopedic spine service at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, said that his area had "many fine orthopedic surgeons" but, as a group, they were much less likely to operate on people with back pain than were orthopedic surgeons elsewhere.
"We are quite conservative," Dr. Boyd said. And, he added, "we are closer to the right number of operations per thousand than physicians in the West." In fact, he said, he thinks the number of operations in Boston can be even lower.
Dr. Boyd and others said that a central reason for the disparities was that different medical centers had different philosophies about treatments and that doctors tended to practice in regions where they were trained, perpetuating their medical school's treatment philosophy. When doctors do move to a new area, they often adapt themselves to the prevailing treatment there.
Dr. William Catalona, chief of urological surgery at Washington University in St. Louis, an area with a high rate of prostate surgery, said doctors in some other regions, like New England, "tend to be conservative."
But in St. Louis, he said, he and his colleagues trained young doctors to do the surgery and made sure they did enough operations to be proficient. In contrast, he said, "one of our young faculty members, who is just a wonderful surgeon, trained at Harvard in urology," adding, "When he finished his training not very long ago, he had never performed a radical prostatectomy." Now, Dr. Catalona said, the man has learned to do the operation and does it often.
Dr. Reinhardt said the move to health maintenance organizations might make practice variations fade away. H.M.O.'s insist on rigid treatment guidelines. But, Dr. Boyd said, the problem can be subtler than that.
"I don't think managed care has solved those problems," Dr. Boyd said. For example, he said, when he examines doctors for their orthopedic boards, he has found "people in practice a year who have done a couple of hundred spine fusions." Dr. Boyd, however, said, "I wouldn't do 200 of those things in the rest of my life." Yet when he asked the doctors why they did them, they listed accepted indications. It was a matter of interpretation and medical philosophy that drove them to do the operations -- not cold, hard facts, he said.
"It's hard to look at an individual procedure or doctor and be very critical," Dr. Boyd said. "But looking at the overall numbers, there's something funny here and we'd better find out what it is."

GRAPHIC: Map/Graph: "Location and Medicine: A Case Study" shows regional variations of orthopedic surgeons per 100,000 residents and back care per 1,000 medicare enrolees. (Source: "Dartmoth Atlas of Health Care," American Hospital Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: DARTMOUTH MEDICAL SCHOOL AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (82%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH MEDICAL SCHOOL AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (82%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BUFFALO (NY); ALBANY (NY); ARLINGTON (VA); MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SURGERY AND SURGEONS; BREAST; CANCER ; PROSTATE GLAND BREAST CANCER (93%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PROSTATE DISEASE (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); PROSTATE CANCER (77%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (76%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: ;KOLATA, GINA; WENNBERG, JOHN E (DR) JACK LORD (70%); JOHN E WENNBERG (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



778 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Uncertainties Hurt Prices Of Treasuries

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell sharply yesterday, under pressure from uncertainty over economic conditions and this week's Federal Reserve meeting.
The market was also weighed down by a weaker dollar, higher commodity prices, an increase in the supply of new debt securities coming to market and a rush of new economic data this week. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 21/32, to 110 24/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 6.09 percent, from 6.04 percent on Friday.
Trading was moderate as the market consolidated ahead of the Fed meeting. The Fed's monetary policy arm, the Federal Open Market Committee, begins a two-day meeting today to set monetary policy for the months ahead. Half of the market believes the Fed will adjust short-term rates lower to stimulate a weak economy, analysts said, while the other half, still unconvinced that the economy is that weak, believes the central bank will leave interest rates as they are.
Philip Braverman, senior vice president and chief economist at the DKB Securities (USA) Corporation, said he expected that the Fed would cut rates by a quarter of a percentage point. "It's the most prudent amount," he said, "since it would probably be the easiest to approve, with a half- point probably more appropriate and cleaner, but with more difficulty in getting the votes without clear-cut data about the weakness of the economy."
Bill Gamba, senior vice president and head of government bond trading at Cowen & Company, also said he expected a cut of a quarter- point.
The Fed meeting, Mr. Gamba added, is one of three significant factors dragging the market down, the others being continued selling by hedge funds, which are private investment funds for wealthy people, and the uncertainty over the Federal budget talks.
"All of these things will deminish in time," he said. " The budget will be resolved, the hedge funds will stop unwinding and Fed's meeting will end. Once those three obstacles are out of the way, there is no reason why the market can't be at 5.75 percent on the long end."
There are buyers, he said, as evidenced yesterday, when they came into the market to buy on the lows, and that generated a little short-covering rally. He also said that the market took notice of a sharp rise in the Commodity Research Bureau index of 17 commodities, which gained 2.45 points, to 244.66.
Traders said early weakness in the dollar yesterday allowed Treasury prices to explore the bottom of the session's price range. Much of the activity, they said, was driven by position-squaring ahead of the meeting, the day's losses capped by traders looking for value and buying bonds on the lows.
The market was also bracing for a number of economic reports. The Government issues December retail sales today, and tomorrow the Treasury announces the size of its quarterly sales of new securities, including a 30-year bond.
At the weekly Treasury bill auction yesterday, rates were higher for the first time in five weeks. Analysts said the rise in rates suggested that investors thought the Fed might refrain from an immediate reduction in interest rates. The last rate cut came at the Dec. 19 meeting, when the Federal funds target rate, the rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans, was lowered by a quarter of a point, to 5.5 percent.
The average rate for a three-month bill at yesterday's auction was 5.01 percent, up from 4.99 percent last week, while the rate for a six-month maturity increased to 4.90 percent, from 4.88 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Average Price	98.734	97.523	Discounted Rate	5.01%	4.90%	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.11%	High Price	98.746	97.543	Discounted Rate	4.96%	4.86%	Coupon Yield	5.11%	5.07%	Low Price	98.731	97.523	Discounted Rate	5.02%	4.90%	Coupon Yield	5.17%	5.11%	Accepted at low price	36%	39%	Total applied for	$45,132,947	$45,210,454	Accepted	$14,082,927	$14,003,196	Noncompetitive	$1,371,397	$1,236,769	

Both issues are dated Feb. 1. The three-month bills mature on May 2 and the six-month bills on Aug. 1.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since October 1995. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM COWEN GROUP INC (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



779 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls Against the Mark On Doubt on Europe Money Plan

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell yesterday against the German mark, which was bolstered by growing uncertainty over the fate of plans to establish a single currency in Europe.
Traders were also hestitant to buy dollars ahead of the meetings today and tommorrow of the Federal Reserve committee that sets interest-rate policy. 
 Without any economic data for further guidance, traders shed their dollars for currencies, like the mark, that are perceived to be safer.
In late trading in New York yesterday, a dollar bought 1.4830 marks, compared with 1.4912 marks Friday. The dollar ended at 106.75 yen, up from 106.67 yen. The British pound rose to $1.5057, from $1.5020 on Friday.
Doubts about the timetable for a single European currency, to be called the Euro, helped the mark.
Recent economic reports from Europe indicate that even Germany, Europe's largest economy, is not assured of meeting the strict fiscal criteria for entering into a European economic union by 1999.
In recent months when economic union had seemed more clearly possible, traders had begun moving into the Swiss franc as a safe haven, replacing the mark as the primary European currency of safety.
Yesterday, that strategy went into reverse. Without a common European currency, the German mark would again be the safe currency to hold, traders said.
"We had expected money to flow out of Switzerland into Germany" if doubts grew about economic union, said Robert Prior, European economist at James Capel & Company's branch in Frankfurt.
The Italian lira, the French franc and the Spanish peseta all weakened against the mark yesterday. And the dollar weakened as a result, as traders sold the other currencies for dollars and then sold the dollars for marks.
Profit taking from gains made last week also hurt the dollar, said Chris Iggo, an international economist at Chase Manhattan Bank.
Analysts said the currency market was divided on whether the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates to aid the American economy during the meeting of its policy-making Federal Open Market Committee.
When a country cuts its rates, returns on new investments become less attractive to investors, along with that country's currency.
Dollar-yen trading stayed within a narrow range but fell to profit taking once the dollar hit 107 yen, Mr. Iggo said, noting that "there's been no news from the U.S. that would seriously impact the dollar." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (53%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (53%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (53%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (53%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); GERMAN MARK (92%); EURO (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); 

PERSON: CHRIS IGGO (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



780 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: THE NEEDIEST CASES;
Timely Cash Assistance Rescues 2 Households

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON 

 BODY:
Two Manhattan households, separated by about two dozen blocks and very different circumstances, had one pressing need in common. Both had experienced financial hardship and were badly in need of emergency help.
Robbie and Marian Perry, high school sweethearts from nearby Harlem neighborhoods, were married 11 years ago. With two daughters, 6 and 11, they had always been able to make ends meet. Until last summer. 
 That summer was a tough time, too, for Bernard Williams, a 45-year-old traffic-enforcement agent. Having fallen victim to crack cocaine addiction, Mr. Williams was finally walking out of a rehabilitation program sober -- but facing a financial crisis.
Judith Milone, with the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, was able to help both Bernard Williams and the Perry family avoid eviction.
The federation, which provides grants to people in need, is one of the seven agencies supported by the Times Neediest Cases Fund, which pays its administrative costs so that donations go directly to the charities.
Early last year, Mrs. Perry lost her $32,000-a-year bookkeeping job. With the couple's third child due in September, Mr. Perry, then working nights for the Procall answering service in New Rochelle, took a second job as a customer service representative for Time Warner Cable but had to relinquish it after four months when Procall switched him to a daytime schedule.
Their financial situation began to worsen and, by midsummer, they fell behind in their rent.
"This is a family that needs two incomes," said Mrs. Perry, nursing 4-month-old Nia from a bottle. "It's expensive to have a child."
Ms. Milone, who arranged for an emergency grant of $675, a month's rent, to help the Perry family back on their feet, agreed that "with three children, their case was very compelling."
Mr. Perry said, "We just needed an opportunity to get out of this situation." He took the New York City Police Department test two years ago and is hoping to be selected soon. Behind him hangs a family photograph, and in the corner are two small bicycles and a Big Wheel children's tricycle, waiting for warmer weather.
"We just wanted to be able to get back on track," Mr. Perry said.
The Perrys worry about how to tell the girls, who are bright students, that they cannot afford some of their school's optional trips or special preparatory academic courses. "We tell them it's only temporary," Mr. Perry said.
While the Perry family is still living from one paycheck to the next, Mr. Williams tries to live one day at a time. Referred to the federation through a friend from the Canaan Baptist Church, he, too, was helped by Ms. Milone.
"He would come in his uniform," she said. "He was back to work and was in an outpatient program at St. Luke's Hospital but needed help with his rent."
Mr. Williams, a Department of Traffic enforcement agent for midtown, has found ways to enjoy a job he calls "the most stressful there is."
"I eat up double parkers and bus stops," he said, grinning. "You have to make the best of the job."
Mr. Williams said that the daily hassles from irate drivers did not bother him but conceded that painful events in his life, including growing up without a father and two failed marriages, did take their toll, causing him to seek refuge in drugs.
"I'd go out and try to medicate myself to try to run from the pain," he said. "Acid, speed, opium, cocaine. I tried them all."
Then his voice lowered and he looked toward the floor. "But my drug of choice was crack cocaine, the most addictive of all of them," he said softly. "Once I'd take the first hit, I couldn't stop until everything was gone. I remember once going through a $500 paycheck in 14 hours."
Last June, Mr. Williams checked himself into the Smithers Rehabilitation Center on East 93d Street for two weeks. "You get to the point where you're sick and tired of being sick and tired," he said.
Though his insurance covered the treatment costs, Mr. Williams received no paycheck for the two weeks out of work and could not afford to pay his overdue rent. The federation's grant of $590 in October helped him avoid eviction and resume a sober life style, which includes attending several Narcotics Anonymous meetings a week.
"Now I'm learning how to deal with life on life's terms," he said.
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
130 East 59th Street, Room 427, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded $3,835,478.68
Recorded yesterday $24,114.00
 
Total $3,859,592.68

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); COCAINE (70%); CHARITIES (68%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (67%); 

PERSON: KILGANNON, COREY MARIAN PERRY (94%); BERNARD WILLIAMS (92%); JUDITH MILONE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



781 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Compaq Rank Again No. 1 In PC Sales

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The Compaq Computer Corporation retained its top ranking as the world's leading marketer of personal computers last year, but I.B.M. edged past troubled Apple Computer for the No. 2 position.
The year-end tallies, reported yesterday by Dataquest, a computer market research firm in San Jose, Calif., showed that worldwide personal computer sales grew nearly 25 percent, to 59.7 million. In the United States, PC sales rose 21 percent, to 22.5 million. 
 The strong sales of personal computers last year were fueled by the switch to machines using Intel's Pentium microchip and the introduction of Microsoft's Windows 95 operating system in August.
But the company-by-company market numbers show that an industry consolidation, long predicted by industry analysts, does not seem to be occurring. The expectation had been that the market shares of the bigger companies would steadily increase, as they benefited from economies of scale in manufacturing and marketing.
Yet the market share of most leading PC makers held steady or declined last year, a trend that was particularly evident in the American market, often regarded as a forerunner of global market trends.
For the year, Compaq's American market share fell to 12.2 percent from 12.6 percent; Packard Bell's dropped to 11.3 from 11.4 percent; Apple's to 11.1 from 11.6 percent; I.B.M.'s to 8.3 from 9 percent, and Gateway 2000's to 5.1 from 5.2 percent.
"The PC manufacturers market is becoming more fragmented, not less, at least for the time being," said Kimball Brown, an analyst for Dataquest.
The industry, in a sense, has consolidated. But it has consolidated around the producers of the key PC technologies -- Intel's chip, and Microsoft's operating system -- rather than around the manufacturers, like Compaq and I.B.M., that assemble the technological components.
Intel has gone further by producing PC motherboards, which house not only the microchip but also the surrounding circuitry for a personal computer. Many PC makers buy the motherboards from Intel, so they have to do less assembly work themselves.
For Intel, the strategy can be risky, as it found out when it overestimated demand for motherboards and its fourth-quarter earnings were disappointing. Packard Bell, which analysts say misjudged demand for low-end PC's, is a large purchaser of Intel motherboards.
Yet purchasing motherboards from Intel makes design and manufacturing skills less crucial for PC makers. "That levels the playing field," Mr. Brown of Dataquest said.
As the PC market matures, some analysts say that the total size of a company's market share often means less than how it does in the market niches where it makes the most money -- and how efficiently it can make and sell computers.
For example, I.B.M.'s share slipped slightly in the world PC market and somewhat faster in the United States. But with its higher market share in 1994, I.B.M. lost an estimated $1 billion. Last year, by contrast, I.B.M.'s PC business probably made more than $100 million in operating profits, Daniel Mandresh, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company, estimated
For 1996, Dataquest is forecasting a slower pace of growth, with global shipments rising 19 percent and the American market ahead 13 percent. Still, some analysts regard the slowdown as a one-year transition, as the industry prepares for another round of new technology in 1997, when Intel's faster Pentium Pro chip becomes the industry standard and Microsoft is expected to bring out a major upgrade to its Windows program. M03,20,40,20> --------------------Digital Ending a PC Line
MAYNARD, Mass., Jan. 29 (AP) -- The Digital Equipment Corporation said today that it would get out of the home computer market and focus on selling personal computers to businesses.
The company said it would discontinue development of its Starion line of PC's. It will instead expand and promote its Venturis desktop and Hinote notebook computers for businesses, although some Digital machines will remain in stores.

GRAPHIC: Table: "PC Leaders" provides computer companies' rankings, based on estimated shipments. (Source: Datastream) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (96%); INTC (NASDAQ) (86%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (96%); INTEL CORP (86%); APPLE INC (85%); GATEWAY INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SALES; PERSONAL COMPUTERS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (99%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); RANKINGS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TRENDS (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); MOTHERBOARDS (85%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



782 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Please Admit Poor, Pitiful Me

BYLINE: By Merrill Markoe; Merrill Markoe is the author of "How to Be Hap-Hap-Happy Like Me."

DATELINE: MALIBU, Calif.

 BODY:
As a graduate of University of California at Berkeley, I was fascinated by the Board of Regents's new affirmative action guidelines that consider social and economic disadvantage instead of the race and sex criteria of yesteryear. Admissions officers will give preference to students from "difficult family situations," which applicants can describe in personal essays.
This news made me regret all the energy I wasted in high school pursuing an acceptable grade- point average. If these guidelines had been in effect back then, I would have slept through my senior year and taken my chances with an essay that probably would have read like this: 
 Dear Board of Regents,
I realize that my grades are not all that great, but this is because I am a survivor of a difficult family situation (to say the least). If you talk to my parents (which I hope you do not), I bet they would say that my basic needs for food and shelter are being met.
Right. If I am willing to eat what they eat, which is impossible as I have been a lacto-vegetarian for more than six months -- a fact that both parents refuse to take seriously. They constantly tease and taunt me: "Care for more bean sprouts, Miss Vegetarian? Doesn't it bother you to kill an innocent potato? Isn't a vegetable a living thing, too?"
Many are the nights I run sobbing from the dinner table, only to lie alone, quaking with hunger and shame, in the dark, dark shadows of my cold and lonely room.
Oh, I guess you could say I have "shelter," if that's what you call such a soul-deadening environment. My mother sees dirt everywhere and constantly sends me in to perfectly clean rooms and demands that I clean them. So I move a few things around, but how can you clean something that is already totally clean?
I swear there is no way to please these people, especially when you take into account that my mother has horrible taste in clothes. One time she actually expected me to wear a navy blue wool-blend skirt gathered at the waist and trimmed in white piping that comes with a matching short-sleeved jacket with a SILHOUETTE OF A DUCK IN A RAIN HAT STITCHED ON THE POCKET!!!
Believe me, trying to talk to them about this stuff makes no difference, because no one cares about my feelings. For instance, I would rather not go to this one restaurant where a lot of the varsity football players work part time as busboys and waiters. But if we must, is it too much to ask that my father, just one time, NOT make horrible dumb jokes? For weeks afterward, whenever the guys see me they roll their eyes in a lizard-like expression that means "Oh, your DAD!!!"
Which brings me to the fact that I am not permitted to have a social life in any meaningful sense of the word. If a person gets her driver's license, then she should have full access to the car, even if she failed her test for a license the first three times, because she was very distracted due to personal matters that I cannot get into right now -- except to say that every single guy that I like has something wrong with him, according to my parents' twisted view of reality in which they refuse to comprehend that a shaved head or a tattoo is a way for a person to demonstrate his individuality and creativity. And if I suddenly want to shave my head and get a tattoo to express my individuality and creativity, I am not under his influence, and should not be grounded and treated like a criminal.
I do not intend to let this painful start in life keep me from striving fully for a brighter tomorrow. If you admit me, I will work hard to achieve my goal of becoming someone really important and famous. I am not absolutely sure what I want to do yet, but I will show the world I have overcome my pathetic, restrictive, boring childhood. Thank you.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; BLACKS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; WOMEN; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; DISCRIMINATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); GRADES & GRADING (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); 

PERSON: MARKOE, MERRILL

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



783 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Breaking Out of Japan's Orbit

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 29

 BODY:
It has long been an article of faith in this industrially oriented society that, to borrow from an American saying, what's good for Toyota is good for Japan.
But as the Toyota Motor Corporation and other big companies move more operations and jobs out of Japan, that equation is becoming less true. And that is creating new stress in the vaunted relationship between government and big business. 
 Companies like Sony and Toyota might well continue as fearsome competitors on the world stage, but Japan will enjoy fewer benefits of their success. This break with the past, analysts say, will make Japan's Government less eager to help big business.
For their part, the increasingly global-minded companies have become more impatient with some strictures of the Japanese system and with the inability of the Government to address recent economic woes.
Big companies, trying to cut costs in areas like shipping and utilities, have been pressing for economic deregulation but have run into resistance from the Government and from some small businesses. Even as Japan faces a huge budget deficit, big companies are pushing for lower corporate taxes, saying the high tax rate puts them at a competitive disadvantage. And some big banks have been trying to shed the burden of rescuing weaker, smaller ones.
Without some changes, "all the competitive international companies will go out of the country," said Reijiro Kuromizu, executive vice president of the Mitsubishi Motors Corporation, stressing that he was voicing a personal opinion, not his company's. "We have to survive."
Disputes between companies and the Government are, of course, nothing new. For example, the Honda Motor Company, originally a motorcycle manufacturer, entered the auto business against the wishes of Japan's powerful Ministry of International Trade and Industry about three decades ago.
Nor is the "iron triangle" -- the triad of big business, politicians and bureaucrats that is said to run Japan -- rapidly crumbling. Even as they internationalize, Japanese companies remain more wedded to their home country than American or European multinationals do.
One sign of rupture was that in 1993, Keidanren, the chief lobbying organization for big business, stopped funneling contributions on behalf of business to Japan's largest political party, the Liberal Democrats. But individual companies and some other business organizations are now resuming such donations, and Keidanren itself is making one more contribution.
Still, the issue is attracting attention now because the rise in the yen in the last three years has led to an acceleration of the shift of manufacturing offshore just as unemployment has risen to a postwar high of 3.4 percent. And Japanese companies are more openly espousing globalism. Toray, Japan's largest synthetic fiber maker, has adopted the slogan "Made in Toray" to suggest that it doesn't matter where its products are made.
Many American companies have long since become multinationals. And Washington has had to grapple with such questions as whether to give research and development incentives to an American company that is likely to manufacture the resulting product abroad.
But in Japan, globalization might have an even greater impact because the ties between business and government have been so close that their joint power has been dubbed Japan Inc.
"Japan's remarkable postwar economic development was due largely to a cooperative relationship between government and business," Jin Nakamura, business editor of Japan's leading newspaper, Yomiuri Shimbun, wrote in a column. But, he added, "conflicts have been emerging in recent years between the Government's 'national interests' and the private-sector 'corporate interests.' "
The shift of jobs overseas -- to lower costs, to calm trade tensions or to better exploit foreign markets -- has contributed to Japan's current slump, the longest since World War II, and it will mean any recovery will be tepid.
Company spending on plants and equipment, a prime driver of Japan's economy, has been weak. Nearly a quarter of the capital spending by the transportation equipment industry and almost a third by electrical machinery companies are now made outside Japan, according to the Japan Development Bank.
The shift has put big business under more pressure from politicians, who fear that companies will abandon Japan. Hiroshi Okuda, Toyota's president, said he constantly heard concerns from politicians that departing companies were "leaving high unemployment behind."
Partly in response to trade pressure from the United States, Toyota recently said it would build a fourth North American factory, in Indiana. Its production in Japan has already dropped by a million vehicles, or nearly 25 percent, between 1990 and 1994, with much of the decline offset by increases elsewhere.
One big concern is lifetime employment. Japan's big companies have avoided layoffs of full-time male employees. But if companies become less wedded to Japan, they might scrap such loyalty.
Asked recently whether his priority was jobs or profits, Hisashi Kaneko, president of the NEC Corporation, gave the politically correct answer: "Our responsibility is to maintain employment in Japan while maintaining a reasonable profit."
Big companies are, however, pressuring suppliers to cut prices, leading to layoffs at these companies.
The globalization has only just begun, and Japanese companies are in a state of "immature internationalization," said Hideki Yoshihara, a professor of international business at Kobe University.
The percentage of manufacturing done by Japanese companies outside Japan is still less than 10 percent, compared with more than 20 percent for American companies, the trade and industry ministry said, although some Japanese electronics and auto companies have far more than the average.
Moreover, the mind-set of Japanese executives remains centered on Japan. When a company reports how many employees it has, for example, it usually means only workers in Japan.
An example of this was the Daiwa Bank. When its New York branch suffered huge losses from unauthorized trading, it told Japan's Finance Ministry, but it did not tell American regulators for six weeks.
While American companies like Apple Computer, Compaq and Ford Motor are headed by people who are not from the United States, virtually no Japanese company, even seemingly global-minded ones like Honda and Toyota, has even a single foreigner on its board. An exception is Sony, which has two foreign directors after the resignation of a third, Mickey Schulhof.
Even foreign operations are managed mainly by Japanese sent from the home office. Only about 20 percent of overseas subsidiaries have non-Japanese chief executives, Professor Yoshihara said, while about 65 percent of the Japanese subsidiaries of American companies have Japanese chief executives.
Still, companies are beginning to globalize beyond merely moving manufacturing. Auto makers design some cars for the American market in the United States. Electronics companies have research labs in the United States and Europe. Sony is planning to move some administrative jobs to the United States.
As big companies become more globally oriented, disputes are arising with other segments of Japanese society, though they are often kept under the surface.
Big companies, through their lobbying organization, Keidanren, have been leaders in calling for deregulation, at least of businesses other than their own. Such deregulation would lower the cost of doing business in Japan. These companies also complain that protection of Japan's farmers contributes to trade tensions that raise the yen, making it harder to export cars and VCR's.
But the Government has been slow to deregulate, both to preserve its own power and because politically powerful interests, like small shopkeepers and farmers, object.
"The only ones that benefit are giant companies," said Katsuto Uchihashi, a noted business journalist and author. "Labor unions and small businesses would be hurt."
Mr. Uchihashi cited big business's push to weaken the law restricting large retail stores, which are putting thousands of mom-and-pop stores out of business.
In the financial sector, some big banks, which tend to be healthier, are becoming more resistant to Finance Ministry requests that they help rescue smaller, failing ones, as has been the practice in Japan.
Big banks also want to disassociate themselves from the smaller financial institutions. That is because right now all Japanese banks must pay higher interest to raise money internationally as a result of a perceived weakness in Japan's banking system.
"We have to cut the linkage between the major healthy banks and the troubled small banks," said Ryoji Miura of the international planning division of the Sakura Bank.
Still, Mr. Miura was not about to declare an outright revolt. "As one of the major banks," he said, "we have to offer any assistance we can to secure the financial system."
Strains can also be seen in trade talks. Last summer the United States threatened to impose steep tariffs on Japanese luxury cars unless Japanese auto makers agreed to voluntary plans to increase purchases of foreign auto parts.
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry resisted, but Toyota was more willing to concede to prevent a disruption of Lexus sales. So Washington began direct talks with the companies.
Still, Japan Inc. maintained its unified front. Toyota never publicly disagreed with the ministry. And all the big auto companies came forth with "voluntary" plans on cue, when the ministry told them to.


GRAPHIC: As Japan's biggest companies globalize, their business interests seem increasingly to diverge from the national interests of Japan's Government. This is leading to strains between big business and the Government in key areas:
 
DEREGULATION
Chart/Graph: "The Stresses on Japan Inc."
 Big companies want rules relaxed to lower thier costs. But business failures are already up in today's tightly controlled environment.
 Graph tracks business bankrupcies from 1985 through 1995. (Source: Teikoku Data America)
 
INDUSTRIAL POLICY
As big companies move production out of Japan, they provide fewer jobs. That may make Government less heedful of their needs.
 Graph tracks unemployment rate from 1990 through 1995. (Source: Bloomberg Financial News)
 
TRADE
 Globalized companies must weigh the interests of many nations, not just Japan. Big investments abroad reflect the shifting attention.
 Graph tracks manufacturing overseas from 1986 through a projected 1994. (Source: MITI)
 
TAXES
 Big companies want lower corporate taxes to help them compete globally, while the Government needs to stem a big budget deficit.
 
BANKING
 Breaking with past practice, some big banks are resisting Government calls for them to help rescue smaller institutions.
 
POLITICS
 Keidanren, the chief lobbying organization for big business, stopped funneling donations to Japan's biggest political party in 1993. Business interests, however, appear to be resuming their contributions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (94%); TM (NYSE) (94%); 7203 (TSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (66%); 7267 (TSE) (66%); 7211 (TSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; SONY CORP TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (94%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (66%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; SONY CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES ; FINANCES BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LOBBYING (76%); TRENDS (75%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (72%); POLITICS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS MFG (63%); MOTORCYCLES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



784 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: War in the Caucasus?

BYLINE: By Fiona Hill; Fiona Hill is associate director of the Strengthening Democratic Institutions Project at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
The civil war in Chechnya, once largely confined to the rebel republic, now threatens to spread through the Caucasus and even beyond. The seizure of hostages in neighboring Dagestan and the hijacking of a ferry in Turkish waters this month reflected this ominous turn in the conflict, which could easily draw in Georgia and Azerbaijan, and possibly Turkey and Iran.
A long history of invasions, settlement and mass migrations, combined with the isolation of mountain valleys, have made the Caucasus one of the world's most ethnically diverse and volatile regions. 
 The North Caucasus has often been torn by conflicts over territory and natural resources between Ossetians and Ingush, Ossetians and Georgians, Abkhazians and Georgians, Cossacks and Chechens, Chechens and Laks, Lezgins and Azeris.
With the Caucasian ethnic groups spread across so many borders, no conflict in the region can be considered the purely internal affair of one state, despite what Russia claims. Turkey and Iran, seeing their diplomatic protests ignored by the Russian Government, are covertly sending arms to the Chechens and other Muslim insurgents.
The recent civil wars in the region have their roots in high rural birth rates, ruined economies and, often, historical tensions between Islam and Eastern Orthodoxy. But they have been made worse by the geographic divisions and administrations inherited from the Soviet Union, many of which were intended by Stalin to divide ethnic groups across borders and impede the rise of local leadership.
In several regions Russia has negotiated bilateral treaties giving republics some control over profits from foreign investment, the management of state property, tax revenues, local judiciaries and other aspects of self-rule. Negotiations for such a pact were under way in Chechnya when the war began; if it is to have any hope of ending the conflict, Russia must make real concessions.
Otherwise, Dagestan will be drawn into the fighting. Dagestan is the North Caucasus writ small, with its own complex ethnic mosaic. If the Chechen war spreads there, the whole edifice of the Caucasus could come crashing down.
Lezgins, whose ancestral lands are divided between Dagestan and the independent republic of Azerbaijan to the south, would undoubtedly fight for independence, bringing Azerbaijan into the conflict. Widespread violence would also likely revive the rebellion of the Abkhazians in Georgia.
Turkey, with five million ethnic Caucasians, and Iran, which worries that any unrest in Azerbaijan might lead the 15 million Azeris in its northern provinces to secede, would feel forced to intervene in any full-fledged Caucasian war.
The fighting not only imperils the political stability of Russia and the Caucasian republics but their economic prospects as well. In October, Azerbaijan's international oil consortium announced it would ship Caspian oil from Baku to the Black Sea in pipelines to be built across Chechnya, Dagestan and Georgia. But no major investors will invest in pipelines that cross a war zone.
With the oil scheduled to start flowing from new Caspian fields later this year, Russia needs to offer the Chechens a treaty involving real concessions. The only alternative is war in the Caucasus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (95%); CAUCASIAN STATES (95%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (95%); CAUCASIAN STATES (95%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MOUNTAINS (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (69%); RELIGION (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); POLITICS (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); PROPERTY TAX (50%); 

PERSON: HILL, FIONA

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



785 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: IN CONGRESS;
An Anti-PAC Fight Angers G.O.P.

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Jan. 29

 BODY:
In control of Congress for the first time in 40 years, Republicans are proving to be as adept as Democrats in using their majority status to raise money for re-election.
But the windfall has attracted an old critic of Congress, the Texas billionaire Ross Perot, who has joined forces with a freshman Republican, Representative Linda Smith of Washington State, and a former Democratic Senator and Presidential candidate, Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, to form the Coalition to Clean Up Congress. 
 Starting with a town meeting on Jan. 20 in Concord, Mass., they plan to tour more than 100 Congressional districts, pounding home their message against a campaign finance system they say is little more than institutionalized vote-buying.
Judging by the reaction of fellow Republicans in Washington State, which had the biggest electoral swing from Democrats to Republicans in the 1994 election, the so-called clean Congress campaign is making new members somewhat squeamish.
Although Ms. Smith collected about $17,000 after being elected to Congress, she says she has stopped taking donations from political action committees. She paints the innumerable fund-raising events as cesspools of influence-peddling that would shock the average voter. And much to the anger of Speaker Newt Gingrich, she has joined with a handful of Democrats to push a bill that would ban all political action committee contributions.
"It's like our dirty little secret," said Ms. Smith, who represents the Third Congressional District, in southwestern Washington. "When I went back to Washington I had not a clue about how things really work. Every night, I found out, members go across the street to these fund-raisers. And this is where lobbyists buy access."
Privately, Republican party leaders in this state say they are furious with Ms. Smith. They note that she took PAC money to get elected -- about 25 percent of the $522,000 she raised in 1994 came from such groups -- and then suddenly found it to be the root of political evil.
But Ms. Smith said she had an epiphany about the connection between money and votes early on, when she offered an amendment to eliminate $23 million in tobacco subsidies from the budget. She expected the members from the tobacco states to vote against it, but was unprepared for the number of "no" votes by legislators from states with no economic interest in tobacco.
Ms. Smith's amendment lost by 24 votes, and the tobacco subsidy remained. To her, it was a clear case of money -- in the form of the contributions tobacco company PACs make to members -- buying votes. Why not have a Congress, she asks in speeches, that will decide issues on merits instead of influence?
"A lot of the American dream of our political system is in reality a few people in D.C. with big checkbooks controlling America's future," she said.
Such comments have not only won Ms. Smith the backing of Mr. Perot, they have also won the approval of editorial writers around the country, and support from groups like the League of Women Voters and Common Cause, both of which are providing volunteers for the clean Congress campaign.
But within her own party, Ms. Smith has been treated like an irritant at best. Mr. Gingrich said recently that American politics needed more money, not less, and that any effort at changing the system would have to come from a committee studying the issue this year.
Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, said voters do not really care about changing the system. He cited the Republican filibuster of a campaign finance overhaul bill in the Senate just before the 1994 Congressional races, a move that did not hurt his party at the polls.
The 73 freshman Republicans alone raised $4.4 million from PACs in their first six months in office -- much higher, proportionately, than previous freshman classes, according to Common Cause.
In this state, where the House delegation in 1994 shifted to seven Republicans and two Democrats from one Republican and eight Democrats, and the Democratic Speaker, Thomas S. Foley, was among the casualties, Ms. Smith's fellow freshman Republicans have been among the biggest PAC beneficiaries. That puts them in a difficult position when she gives speeches on why "we should shut down the fund-raisers that give us the tobacco subsidies and the military contracts that we don't need."
Representative Rick White, a freshman Republican from Washington's First Congressional District, raised $245,021 in the first six months in office, of which $113,741 came from PACs. Randy Tate, another freshman Republican whose Ninth District is just north of Ms. Smith's, raised $162,927, of which $105,251 came from PACs.
Mr. Tate says he will not "unilaterally disarm" by refusing to take PAC money, when his opponents will not do the same. Mr. White says he thought about declining PAC money, but decided against it for much the same reason.
"I think people spend altogether too much time time raising money," Mr. White said. "On the other hand, I don't think Congressmen are quite as venal as Linda portrays them. I don't think people buy your votes."
But Mr. Tate and Mr. White said voters kept bringing up campaign financing in town hall meetings. Particularly among swing voters or people who voted for Mr. Perot in the 1992 Presidential race, the issue is dear to their hearts, they said.
Both men said they would support an alternative to Ms. Smith's bill, which has attracted only 20 supporters in the House so far. Mr. White is offering his own proposal, in which an independent commission would come up with a plan to overhaul the campaign finance system.
Ms. Smith says the "old-timers in Congress, the ones that are brought out in wheelchairs" might never give up the current campaign system. But younger members are expected to do things differently.
In addition to banning PAC money, the bill would require that 60 percent of contributions come from a politician's home state, and it would restrict so-called soft money, which is funneled through the parties to avoid spending limits.
"These are extremely powerful issues in the country," said Ann McBride, president of Common Cause, which supports the bill. "The American people said in 1992 that they wanted Congress to change the way they did business. Tom Foley ignored that and look what happened to him. Mr. Gingrich should learn from history."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Linda Smith has won few friends, and little support, with her bill to ban contributions from political action committees. (Dan Lamont for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES; FINANCES CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TOBACCO FARMING (84%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (65%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY; SMITH, LINDA (REPR) NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



786 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: On TV, Showing Life as Lived

BYLINE: By ANDY MEISLER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 29

 BODY:
The revolution, as they used to say, will not be televised. On the other hand there's always room in prime time for another sitcom.
Such are the north and south poles of Ralph Farquhar's professional existence. A tall, bearded 44-year-old partial to T-shirts and baseball hats, Mr. Farquhar is both a black activist and a successful network television writer, an agent of change and a well-connected industry insider. 
 "Throughout my entire career I've only had one goal, one motivation," he said over lunch recently at a Caribbean restaurant in a relatively untrendy neighborhood east of Hollywood. "To bring an honest portrayal to the life I live to the screen: to the small screen."
In 1994, "South Central," a gritty half-hour comedy set in inner-city Los Angeles, was praised by critics and received an award from Viewers for Quality Television, a group that uses viewer mail as leverage to petition the networks to save programs. But the show, which Mr. Farquhar created with Michael Whitehorn, had a low-rated run on the Fox Network and was dropped after only 13 weeks.
Mr. Farquhar's next television project, "Moesha" (pronounced moe-EESH-ah), is a more subtly, perhaps even sneakily, innovative sitcom that had its premiere on Jan. 23 on the one-year old United Paramount Network. (In New York the show is broadcast on Tuesdays on WWOR, Channel 9, at 8 P.M.)
The series, which he created with his co-executive producers, Sara Finney and Vida Spears, both of whom are veteran comedy writers, stars the 16-year-old Brandy Norwood, better known as the pop singer Brandy, in the title role.
Moesha Mitchell is a bright, attractive high school student with a smart-aleck younger brother (Marcus T. Paulk), a good-natured father (William Allen Young) and a disconcertingly vivacious stepmother (Sheryl Lee Ralph). Like most teen-age inhabitants of the sitcom world, she agonizes volubly over such issues as boys, household rules and the prevention of facial blemishes.
What sets "Moesha" apart from other black sitcoms is that the Mitchells live in a middle-class world that is demographically and culturally almost entirely made up of black and Hispanic residents. Their neighborhood, Leimert Park, is a real middle-class black neighborhood that while practically unknown to most white Los Angelenos is very familiar to Mr. Farquhar and his co-writers.
"Moesha is completely honest to the culture and the environment we're portraying," Mr. Farquhar said. "We make no nods toward making it seem white. You know, it just is what it is."
"But the good news," he added, "is that it's not that much different from anyone else's life in America. We just keep the flavor."
There were no white faces in the first episode of "Moesha." While it is obvious to the viewer that the Mitchells buy into many parts of the American dream -- Moesha's stepmother is a schoolteacher, her father sells Saturn automobiles -- the characters' ethnic sensibilities are neither muted nor, in most cases, underlined.
In the show, adults and teen-agers alike pepper their speech freely though not ostentatiously with black English, including black slang. Decor and dress show strong Afrocentric influences. Moesha's heartthrob is a boy named Ohagi (the character says it means "conquering warrior"), who recites rap-style poetry at a local teen-age hangout. A disparaging remark is made in passing about the O. J. Simpson trial prosecutor Christopher Darden, obliquely implying where the Mitchell family stands on the issue of Mr. Simpson's guilt or innocence.
These are clearly not the Huxtables from "The Cosby Show." But neither are they the Mosleys, the family on which "South Central" was centered. In that single-parent, female-headed household, just a paycheck or two away from welfare, plots were strongly tied to issues like unwed parenthood, gang warfare and racial discrimination. One son had been killed in a police shootout before the action of the series began. Another boy, a foster child, never spoke. Industry detractors labeled it too depressing.
"Did we go too far with 'South Central?' " Mr. Farquhar said. "No, because you can never go too far. If there's one thing I learned from TV, it's that if you know that something's going to work, if you're comfortable with it, you're wrong. When you go far enough so that you don't know whether something's going to work or not, then you're doing the right thing."
"Moesha" is about a family that is doing well, said Mr. Farquhar, who is divorced and remarried and has grown children, "so that we can focus on emotional issues without the barrier of economics."
"Still," he added, "there will always be serious moments. Moesha is not an idealized teen-ager. The real world is still out there."
Mr. Farquhar has always probed the limits of the system. He was born and reared in Chicago, then went on to the United States Military Academy. He said he soon realized that "my talents lay elsewhere" and left after "one year, eight months and eight days."
He later received a degree in advertising from the University of Illinois, but moved to Los Angeles in the hope of becoming an actor.
He worked as a receptionist at a travel agency run by the wives of powerful entertainment industry executives, one of whom was the producer of the long-running ABC sitcom "Happy Days." Soon he was a writer's assistant -- a secretary, in other words -- on that show.
"But you want to know something funny?" he said. "Being a 6-foot-2 black man, nobody asked me to type anything, so I just sat there and wrote my own scripts."
One day after a company baseball game, Garry Marshall, the creator and executive producer of "Happy Days, came over to him to talk, Mr. Farquhar said.
"He said: 'What do you want to do?' " Mr. Farquhar said. "I said, 'I want to be a writer.' So he said, 'O.K., you just pitch to me anytime you have an idea.'
"I did that for two years. He would give me some time once a month, and I would pitch story ideas to him. And one day he hired me. He said, 'O.K., you can be a famous writer."'
Mr. Farquhar was a staff writer on "Happy Days" for three years. In the early 1990's he worked on the sitcoms "Married . . . With Children" and "Drexell's Class," and then, along with Michael Weithorn, a white writer and producer, developed "South Central" for CBS.
When that network turned it down -- as it did "Moesha" last year -- the two men got a commitment from the upstart Fox network.
When "South Central" had its premiere in April 1994, John J. O'Connor of The New York Times wrote, "There are laughs in 'South Central,' but they are secondary to a permeating sense of danger and looming disintegration." He added that the show had a "steady ring of truth."
Fox canceled the show in August. A momentarily bitter Mr. Farquhar gave some angry interviews and organized a letter-writing campaign, to no avail.
He then moved on to "Moesha." After CBS passed on it, the show was in limbo for several months until UPN, with its two-night-a-week schedule aimed at younger viewers, picked it up.
"When I saw it I liked it right away," said UPN's head of entertainment, Mike Sullivan, a producer of such shows as ABC's "Growing Pains" and "Just the 10 of Us."
"I especially thought Brandy was terrific, even though as a middle-aged white guy I was only peripherally aware of her as a singer," Mr. Sullivan said. "I felt the same way seeing her as when Kirk Cameron came in to audition for 'Growing Pains.' Before she's back in her car, she's a teen idol."
In its Tuesday night time slot, Mr. Farquhar's show appears opposite "Roseanne" on ABC and "Wings" on NBC. "I think we've got a chance," he said. "Who can say?"
Mr. Farquhar glanced down at his pager. He excused himself, retrieved and dialed his portable phone and spoke softly into it for a few minutes.
He then relayed the urgent crisis at the studio to his co-writers: should Ms. Norwood be equipped with false eyelashes for a scene?
"I have absolutely no opinion on that," he said, laughing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Farquhar with Brandy Norwood on the set of "Moesha," broadcast on UPN on Tuesday nights at 8. (Bart Bartholomew for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MOESHA (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARAMOUNT NETWORK UNITED PARAMOUNT NETWORK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED PARAMOUNT NETWORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BLACKS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); RACE & RACISM (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); RESTAURANTS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); STEPPARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: FARQUHAR, RALPH; MEISLER, ANDY BRITNEY SPEARS (53%); BRITNEY SPEARS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



787 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Prudential Will Sell Mortgage Unit to Norwest

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Jan. 29

 BODY:
The Norwest Corporation said today that it would buy the Prudential Insurance Company's mortgage-lending unit and half its mortgage-processing business to bolster its No. 1 rank in the American mortgage industry.
The companies would not comment on the financial terms, but a person familiar with the deal said that Norwest would pay $625 million to $650 million. 
 Norwest's purchase of the Prudential Home Mortgage Company adds the nation's fourth-largest mortgage lender, with $15.7 billion in loans last year, to the largest.
The Minneapolis-based banking and financial-services company, through its Norwest Mortgage Inc. unit, also agreed to buy 50 percent of Prudential's $80 billion servicing business, which handles billing and processing. In addition, Norwest will become a subservicer for the remaining $40 billion in the Prudential mortgage portfolio.
The transaction will increase Norwest's earnings per share in the first year, the company said. The Norwest parent company has $72 billion in assets and more than 3,000 offices in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean and Central America.
Prudential put its St. Louis-based mortgage-lending operation up for sale in March so it could focus on its insurance business. The company in 1994 had the worst year in its history, losing $1.2 billion from lower insurance sales, payouts on catastrophe policies and litigation costs from a brokerage scandal.
The sale of a major part of Newark-based Prudential's mortgage business is the latest in a consolidation of the slumping industry. Banks and mortgage lenders found increased value in servicing old loans when new loans declined in 1994 amid higher interest rates.
Prudential's servicing unit, the Residential Services Corporation, has about 3,200 employees, with almost 1,000 in Frederick, Md. Norwest agreed to buy that office, as well as one in Springfield, Ill.
A Norwest spokeswoman, Anita Liskey, said it was too early to say if the work force would be cut at the operations it was buying. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); PICL (NEP) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS524298 ALL OTHER INSURANCE RELATED ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); CANADA (69%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); MISSOURI, USA (74%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA; NORWEST CORP WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO LTD (91%); NORWEST MORTGAGE INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA; NORWEST CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%); CANADA (69%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); MISSOURI, USA (74%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (68%); LITIGATION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



788 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Visa Lottery Is Given Credit For Neighborhood Revival

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

 BODY:
An annual visa lottery that strives to diversify immigration to this country has revitalized some New York City neighborhoods, attracting thousands of Irish and Polish immigrants to once-fading neighborhoods, according to city demographers.
The annual lottery, which this year will offer coveted green cards to 55,000 foreigners, has been responsible for bringing 95 percent of the city's Irish immigrants and 64 percent of Polish immigrants since 1992, replenishing neighborhoods like the historic Polish community in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, and the old Irish neighborhoods in Sunnyside, Queens, and Norwood, the Bronx. 
 "That energy is palpable," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said during a news conference yesterday. "That energy drives the city." At the news conference, officials announced the lottery and rules for applying. Applications will be accepted from Feb. 12 to March 12.
From 1992 to 1994, 9,300 Polish and 9,000 Irish lottery winners moved to New York City, according to preliminary statistics from the city's Planning Department. The surge has meant that Ireland, which in the 1980's ranked 30th among countries sending immigrants to New York, today ranks 12th. In the 1980's, Poland ranked 18th; today it holds 6th place.
On Bainbridge Avenue in the Norwood section of the Bronx, for instance, Irish newcomers can buy Irish chocolates, Irish sausages, Irish brown bread and Irish beer. It is the neighborhood where Bridie O'Malley settled when she first moved from Ireland.
Two years ago, she won the lottery, guaranteeing permanent legal residence in the United States.
"It was, like, an unbelievable feeling," said Ms. O'Malley, 27, who now works as a paralegal.
For eight years, Ms. O'Malley lived here illegally, working as a waitress, with no hope of gaining legal status because she had no immediate family in the United States.
Since the 1960's, the largest waves of immigration have come from Asia and Latin America, areas of political and economical instability, while the more prosperous Europeans stayed home.
Under American law, these new immigrants could and did bring their spouses, children and close relatives with them. But as the years passed, Irish- and Polish-Americans in the United States found themselves generations away from their European-born relatives.
Immigration policymakers decided that groups like the Irish and Polish were underrepresented, so Congress created the visa lottery as part of the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1990 to create greater diversity among immigrants.
Since then, the pool of applicants has been expanded to include all but 11 countries, excluding, in the interest of diversity, those that have sent 50,000 or more immigrants to the United States during the last five years. The excluded countries are China (mainland and Taiwan), India, the Philippines, Vietnam, South Korea, Britain (except Northern Ireland), Canada, Mexico, Jamaica, El Salvador, Colombia and the Dominican Republic.
Immigrants from anywhere else, whether they live illegally in the United States or abroad, can apply as long as they have a high school education or have worked five years in a field that requires at least two years of training.
There is no application form. For years, the State Department, which directs the program, has asked that applicants simply write their names, the names of their spouses and children, their date of birth and country of origin on a plain piece of paper and mail it to one of several processing centers in the United States.
This year, in an effort to fight application fraud, the State Department will also require immigrants to sign the sheet of paper and to include a photograph. In previous years, some ineligible applicants have assumed the identities of other immigrants, hoping to win a green card.
Only 7 percent of New York's legal immigrants gain entrance to the United States through the lottery system. But for the Irish and the Polish, the two groups that have benefited the most from the system, it has been virtually their only way to get in.
"They simply wouldn't be here without the lottery," said Joseph Salvo, the city's chief demographer.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Map: "BY THE NUMBERS: Visas by the Draw" shows this year's lottery allotment, divided by geographic region. (Source: State Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); ASIA (79%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); ASIA (79%); POLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LOTTERIES IMMIGRATION (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURALIZATION (78%); LOTTERIES (78%); CITIES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); LEGISLATION (66%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); PARALEGALS (64%); BEER & ALE (50%); 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL L RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



789 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft and MCI Agree On an Internet Alliance

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
In the promiscuous world of digital technology, where most companies prefer playing the field to going steady, MCI Communications said yesterday that it had signed an Internet alliance with the Microsoft Corporation. This, even though it already has an on-line partnership with the News Corporation.
Under the terms of the deal, MCI and Microsoft will jointly develop and market an array of on-line and Internet services. Microsoft said it had chosen MCI as the primary distributor of its commercial on-line service, the Microsoft Network. And MCI said it would promote Microsoft's Internet software and browser throughout its network. 
 MCI is already developing an on-line service with News Corporation. But Bert C. Roberts, MCI's chairman and chief executive, said his company would reduce its 50 percent equity stake in the venture to a minority interest.
"We are pushing our boat into Microsoft's waters as we go forward," Mr. Roberts said in a telephone conference call.
William H. Gates 3d, the chairman of Microsoft, said MCI would help Microsoft as it tried to build the Microsoft Network into a on-line service rivaling America Online or Prodigy. Microsoft's service has 600,000 subscribers, while America Online has 4.5 million.
"MCI and Microsoft have a lot in common," Mr. Gates said. "We both see a lot of opportunities on the Internet." He added that no money was changing hands in the deal. But he said Microsoft would take in some revenue as MCI used its software and Internet browser.
Analysts said the deal would benefit MCI by relieving the long-distance carrier of the expense of designing its own on-line service. Since Microsoft will also promote MCI's regular telephone services, MCI will have access to the 80 million customers who use Windows software.
"If the name of the game is everybody competing with everybody else," said Jack Grubman, an analyst at Salomon Brothers, "then the more stuff you can sell to your customers, the better."
MCI's deal is a setback for the company's other venture with the News Corporation. MCI had originally promoted on-line services as the centerpiece of its $2 billion alliance with the News Corporation, which owned the struggling Delphi on-line service. Both companies planned to use Delphi as the base for a much larger service.
"It seems clear that MCI has been frustrated by the slow pace of development there," said Emily Green, an analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass.
Delphi still has fewer than 100,000 subscribers, and the company has said little about new marketing or technology initiatives.
Scott Kurnit, chief executive of the MCI/News venture, said MCI's priorities had changed since it struck an alliance with the News Corporation in May. He added, "We are pursuing several other companies about becoming partners with us."
Executives familiar with the venture said that tomorrow it would announce that the Oracle Corporation, the software developer, was taking a 40 percent equity stake in the venture. News Corporation will also own 40 percent, while MCI's interest will drop to 20 percent.
For his part, Mr. Roberts noted that the MCI/News Corporation partnership was expanding in other ways. The companies plan to collaborate in delivering satellite television, using a high-powered orbital slot that MCI won in a Government auction last week for $472 million.
Analysts said the News Corporation would provide entertainment programs to the satellite venture through its Fox television network.
In a sign of just how Byzantine the deal-making has become, MCI has a deal with the News Corporation and Microsoft, while Microsoft has a separate deal with another television network, NBC. Microsoft and NBC plan to start a 24-hour news network and on-line service, MSNBC.
Thomas S. Rogers, president of NBC Cable, said that Microsoft's deal with MCI did not pose a conflict with NBC's partnership. "NBC News is distributed on the Microsoft Network," he said, "so anything that expands the distribution of the Microsoft Network is good for us." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (96%); VZ (NYSE) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (NASDAQ) (93%); NWS (ASX) (93%); AOL (NYSE) (55%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP; MICROSOFT CORP; NEWS CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (94%); NEWS CORP (93%); AOL INC (55%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCI COMMUNICATIONS CORP; MICROSOFT CORP; NEWS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS INTERNET & WWW (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); 

PERSON: GATES, WILLIAM H; LANDLER, MARK BILL GATES (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



790 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Micron Offers No Insight On Chief's Exit and Return

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

DATELINE: BOISE, Idaho, Jan. 29

 BODY:
Hundreds of shareholders and employees packed the convention center here today, drawn by the corporate soap opera that has captivated both locals and Wall Street: Why did Steve Appleton, chief executive of Micron Technology Inc., return to his job on Friday, just a week after resigning?
Even the local paper, The Idaho Statesman, urged the company, which is the largest corporate taxpayer in the area, to give an explanation. But at the meeting, Mr. Appleton and the board were mum. 
 After explaining that his differences with the board had been resolved and he would say no more about them, Mr. Appleton told the crowd that "just for the record, I took vacation hours last week." Everyone laughed but Mr. Appleton later said he wasn't joking.
Only a single shareholder politely suggested during the question-and-answer session that management of Micron, a maker of computer memory chips, might owe its investors an explanation. But Mr. Appleton demurred again, saying it was destructive to hash over past differences.
And that was it. Back to business as usual.
Few attendees seemed to mind the stonewalling, and appeared more concerned to learn when the 35-year-old chairman and chief executive thought Micron's share price would again rise above the $90 peak it reached in September. (He said he didn't know.) Today the stock closed at $33.625, down 87.5 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange. And several analysts cut their estimates for Micron's earnings next year.
Mr. Appleton is a local hero, having begun his career at Micron 13 years ago working in the plant for $4.46 an hour. "The fact is," Dan Niles, an analyst with Robertson Stephens & Company in San Francisco, said, "the company is in much better shape with Steve than without him."
The unusual episode was vintage Micron, whose world-beating technological prowess often bumps up against the fading legacy of the frontier spirit.
The latter is exemplified by Micron's board, which is controlled by wealthy farmers who dominate Idaho's economy. Having given Micron seed money in the 1970's and nursed it through heavy losses in the 1980's, they regard it as their company.
Their leader, and Micron's largest shareholder and a member of its board, is J. R. Simplot, a billionaire who pioneered the art of freezing potatoes and made his fortune selling frozen french fries to the McDonald's Corporation.
When Mr. Appleton resigned on Jan. 18, his departure was attributed to a dispute with Mr. Simplot, but an executive close to Micron who spoke on condition of anonymity said today that Mr. Appleton's clash had been with Allen Noble, another director from Boise who was one of the company's early investors.
Mr. Noble said that was not true. "It was a unanimous board decision when he left," Mr. Noble said last night. "It was a unanimous board decision when he came back."
Mr. Simplot, who is 87, also chose not to elaborate on the board's differences with Mr. Appleton, but in a rambling address today he did discuss the departure of Mr. Appleton's predecessor, Joseph Parkinson, who resigned in September 1994 after reportedly accusing Mr. Simplot of divulging inside information.
"He didn't want to tell anyone anything," Mr. Simplot said of Mr. Parkinson. "I want to tell people everything."
With that, Mr. Simplot proposed that shareholders receive 25 percent of Micron's earnings each quarter in a dividend. "When you clear $3 million a day after taxes," he said, referring to the company's recent profits, "I think you've got something awesome."
After a 2-for-1 stock split last May, the company now pays an annual dividend of 20 cents a share. Mr. Simplot has proposed a dividend increase at past meetings; the board did not approve any increase today.
Like many chip companies, Micron is in the midst of a substantial expansion, one it estimates will cost $4 billion; that includes the building of a $2.5 billion chip-making plant in Lehi, Utah, south of Salt Lake City.
But a decline in memory-chip prices, after three years of unusual stability, has spread fears that Micron's heady profit growth will slow. Since Micron has typically financed its expansion by reinvesting its profits, the company is not likely to increase its dividend at a time when it needs cash for growth. Indeed, the board met with bankers today about possibly borrowing money.
Mr. Appleton and his chief technology officer, Tyler Lowrey, face the challenge of completing the production transition to chips on 8-inch silicon wafers from 6-inch wafers, and to refine production of 16-megabit memory chips instead of the current 4-megabit chips that have been its biggest revenue producer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (92%); MCD (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (80%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (80%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (92%); MCDONALD'S CORP (80%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); IDAHO, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); BOISE, ID, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); MEMORY CHIPS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (72%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); COMPUTER CHIPS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); FROZEN FOODS (63%); 

PERSON: APPLETON, STEVE; ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE STEVEN R APPLETON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



791 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Odds of Another Oil Crisis: Saudi Stability Plays a Large Role

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
Oil Shock III. Could it happen again?
With supplies of oil plentiful and the price of gasoline, adjusted for inflation, as low as it was in the bountiful 1950's, the notion that the world will go through another spike in oil prices like those in 1973-74 and 1979 seems farfetched. And with Iraq apparently on the verge of re-entering the market, nothing is likely to change soon. Indeed, prices may fall for a while. 
 But some oil industry experts -- worried that Saudi Arabia, the linchpin of the world oil market, may be more vulnerable politically than is generally believed -- are raising the specter of an oil price surge for the first time in years.
The talk has intensified because of the possibility, remote as it may be, of a battle to succeed the ailing King Fahd between Crown Prince Abdullah, the King's half-brother, and Prince Sultan, a full brother. Both men control large armies.
On Jan. 1, the 74-year-old King handed over authority to Crown Prince Abdullah, 72, for an unspecified time while he recovered from exhaustion. The Crown Prince, long designated to succeed the King, is known as an Arab nationalist who may be less open than King Fahd to American policies.
Civil war between rivals for power or between the Sunni majority and the Shiite minority cannot be ruled out, says Donald P. Hodel, a Secretary of Energy under President Ronald Reagan. And any instability in Saudi Arabia, which sits on 25 percent of the world's proven oil reserves, or 260 billion barrels, would have wide repercussions. The tendency in the United States, he warns, has been to "go merrily on our way as if there is no potential problem to world oil supply until it is too late."
"Sadly," Mr. Hodel added, "the consequences can be devastating."
Political leaders and industry executives generally say that there is nothing to worry about. Another oil crisis is always possible, they concede, but highly unlikely. The United Nations World Economic and Social Survey 1995 predicts that the real price for oil will remain roughly constant for the next 20 years.
"Nobody can say it won't happen," said Alfred C. DeCrane Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Texaco Inc. "But an earthquake on the San Andreas Fault is more apt to happen than a disruption in oil."
Is that confidence overdone?
Saudi Arabia is still vital to feed the world's growing appetite for oil, which now totals about 62 million barrels a day. The Saudis provide a little more than 8 million of the 17 million barrels of oil that flow from the Middle East. And even though output outside the region has been growing, there is not enough reserve capacity to fill the void if Saudi supplies are disrupted.
"The world needs Saudi Arabia," said John H. Lichtblau, the chairman of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, a private research group. In the event of upheaval, the question, Mr. Lichtblau said, is, "Will you be killed or just be hurt?"
Experts like Mr. Lichtblau offer the consoling thought that history shows that even the most disruptive political events are unlikely to prevent the pumping of crude oil for long.
Vahan Zanoyan, senior director of a private consulting firm in Washington, the Petroleum Finance Company, generally agrees. He recently argued in an article in Foreign Affairs magazine that Saudi Arabia's leaders were frozen in time and had shown little inclination to respond to the decade-old drop in oil prices by reining in spending by the royal family and its entourage of princes, households and hangers-on.
"If in the next three to four years the Saudi Government resists reforms," he said in an interview, "you will see more often the types of riots and civil unrest partly caused by economic concerns and the rise of more Islamic movements. The oil markets in the world will not watch this kind of thing with detachment."
Yet even in the most difficult case -- one in which a fundamentalist Islamic group seizes power in Saudi Arabia -- the new government would only hurt itself if it cut off the supply of oil for a sustained period, he said, adding, "Sooner or later, the new leaders would have to export oil."
The best protection against a temporary cutoff in supplies lies in the United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which holds about 600 million barrels, enough to meet American needs for 90 to 120 days. But growing complacency about the risk of another oil shock is leading some lawmakers to look at the reserve as a source of revenue today rather than an insurance policy for tomorrow. Senate Republicans have proposed selling 39 million barrels from the reserve to help reduce the budget deficit. And most companies have cut their own inventories of oil, leaving the nation with a smaller margin of protection.
Specialists also say that there is little will on the part of the public, political leaders or the oil industry to lessen the vulnerability by increasing conservation or supporting alternative energy sources.
"At the moment we're just letting things drift," said James R. Schlesinger, Energy Secretary under President Jimmy Carter, "when we should be alert to finding possible contingencies."
In the event of a crisis, the most likely outcome, many experts say, will not be a complete shutoff but the risk that any new leadership will decide to sacrifice maximum income for a while, cutting production over time in a bid to push up prices.
But not everybody is confident that the worst can be avoided. Milton Copulos, president of the National Defense Council Foundation, a conservative group in Washington, raised the possibility of an oil crisis at Congressional hearings last year. "The optimists assume that the Arabs are exclusively motivated by economics," Mr. Copulos said. "The Ayatollah Khomeini was not motivated by economics. Other militants are not motivated by economics."
Ultimately, of course, there is always the option of military force.
Walter E. Boomer, president of the Babcock & Wilcox Generation Group and a former Marine lieutenant general who was involved in the Persian Gulf war, said the United States had already shown its commitment in the war to defend Western interests in the Middle East. "If the country is threatened," he said, "we would make that commitment again."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "At Stake?" tracks Saudi Arabia's share of crude oil production from 1982 through September 1995. (Source: Petroleum Industry Research Foundation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (62%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (98%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ; MIDDLE EAST; SAUDI ARABIA (98%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); POLITICS (75%); EARTHQUAKES (67%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (92%); RONALD REAGAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



792 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1986 words

HEADLINE: Unions Try to Push Past Workers' Fears to Sign Up Poultry Plants in South

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: HAZLEHURST, Miss.

 BODY:
Cantrail Berry recalls the day Rossco Johnson showed up at the Sanderson Farms chicken processing plant, driving a shiny black, souped-up pickup truck with a throaty Floatmaster muffler, chrome-plated wheels and the Laborers' International Union of North America logo painted in gold on the doors.
Automobile envy soon gave way to talk of Mr. Berry's grueling job on the assembly line, picking chickens out of giant vats and hanging them from hooks on an overhead belt, reaching in and reaching up 10 to 12 chickens a minute. After 30 days of furtive, one-on-one organizing, Mr. Johnson had persuaded Mr. Berry, 24, and some of his friends to organize a labor union at the Sanderson plant in Collins, and then here in Hazlehurst. 
 "The idea of the union frightened me at first," Mr. Berry said. "But I knew it was time to make a change. The way the supervisors were harassing us and calling us 'boy,' I knew we had to get respect."
Increasingly, this courtship is being played out at poultry processing plants across Mississippi, Arkansas and Georgia as the nation's once-powerful industrial labor unions, struggling to bolster sagging membership and influence, go after a kind of worker they once ignored.
In the flush days of the American labor movement, workers like Mr. Berry made too little money and worked in states far too hostile to organized labor to attract its attention. Even as layoffs mounted in labor's traditional strongholds -- the North and Midwest -- unions focused on winning higher wages for existing members rather than seeking to expand.
Now, with the nation's economy being largely driven by nonunion businesses, many of them in the South and Southwest, the labor movement cannot be so choosy. In recent months, organizers have been fanning across the region into the plants of poultry giants like Tyson Foods and Perdue Farms.
"There is a quiet resurgence in organizing, and it is in the South and it is in the poultry industry," said Richard Bensinger, the executive director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Organizing Institute, which trains organizers for union campaigns. "This is a real opportunity for the labor movement, but I don't know whether we will be writing 10 years from now that we used it or that we blew it."
That opportunity brings with it a formidable challenge. Labor organizers are not only trying to make inroads in the South, hostile territory where union membership has historically been a rarity, but are also trying to work within an industry with a low level of union membership; only 20 percent of its 200,000 workers nationwide belong to unions. While it is too early to predict the ultimate outcome of organizers' efforts, labor's record is even so far: it has won over about as many poultry plants as it has lost.
While poultry companies are reacting to the onslaught by saying they are not concerned, they are vigorously opposing union campaigns.
 
Great Resistance To Labor Unions
What labor is greedily eyeing is an industry whose explosive growth has helped fuel the South's economic success. The poultry industry once consisted of many small companies and thousands of plants scattered across the country, but it is now dominated by a few giants whose plants are mostly concentrated in the South.
It is also an industry with jobs that are among the least attractive and lowest paid, along the chilled, wet "disassembly line," where chickens are halved and quartered, snipped and rended at an unrelenting pace.
For decades, trying to organize these workers was a Sisyphean task, the result of the region's right-to-work laws, which allow nonunion shops and give workers in unionized shops the option to stay out of unions and pay no dues. Unions' difficulties in the South reflect political and social bias against unions, the reliance of rural economies on local poultry plants and the intractability of race and sex discrimination among some locally important employers.
"But the whole country has become the South in terms of low wages," Mr. Bensinger said, making the region's poultry industry the perfect proving ground for a resurgence of labor organizing.
So great is the organizing potential of these factories that rival unions are competing. Mr. Johnson's Laborers' union and Unite, an offshoot of the Textile Workers of America United, are venturing into plants that had been the province of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union and the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.
The July vote in Sanderson's Collins plant was breathtakingly close, with 17 votes spelling union victory. And only half the 1,300 employees joined. It was only in October, after the union successfully organized the Sanderson plant here in Hazlehurst, that management came to the bargaining table. Negotiations produced a new contract paying $6.90 an hour to one-year employees, making the Sanderson workers the highest-paid processing plant workers in Mississippi.
There have been some defeats for the unions as well, an indication that they sometimes face an uphill battle. A vote last December at Tyson's plant in Canton, Miss., went against the union by a 2-to-1 margin. A union was also rejected at a Perdue plant in Dothan, Ala., amid union accusations of management-inspired cross burnings aimed at intimidating black workers. Nonunion forces also triumphed at Perdue plants in Lewiston, N.C., and Robersonville, N.C.
Perhaps because there has been a rough parity between management and union victories in the last 18 months, industry representatives insist that they are not concerned about organizing efforts. Richard Lobb, a spokesman for the National Broiler Council, which represents the industry's 45 major companies, said that the council did not focus on union issues and did not help members defeat union campaigns.
"It's just not an issue that we really track," Mr. Lobb said.
Archie Schaffer, the spokesman for Tyson Foods, the nation's largest poultry company, said that only 11 of Tyson's 80 plants had unions and that even at the unionized plants, most workers had not joined.
 
Working Conditions Top List of Issues
In December, Tyson faced down its most recent union challenge at a newly bought plant in Canton. And Richard Auletta, a spokesman for Perdue Farms, the nation's third-largest chicken producer and processer, said there had been three attempts to organize Perdue plants in the last year. Although all were defeated, they represented the first such attempts by unions in almost 15 years, Mr. Auletta said.
Chicken production in the United States has grown about two-hundredfold in the last six decades, to 6.7 billion birds in 1993 from 34 million in 1934. In that same period, employment in processing plants has grown to 200,000 workers from 19,000, making it second only to automobile parts in manufacturing job growth, said Prof. Marc Linder, an expert at the University of Iowa Law School.
Turnover is high in poultry plants, Professor Linder said, making sustained organizing difficult. The issues for workers tend to be basic, like getting bathroom breaks and protecting employees in an atmosphere of ever-increasing assembly-line speeds. But because many workers are single mothers or recent immigrants who are afraid of losing their jobs, he said, they are reluctant to speak up, much less organize.
The problems of past, unsuccessful labor efforts in the South were recalled by Prof. Herbert Hill, who teaches African-American studies and industrial relations at the University of Wisconsin and who spent 30 years as the labor director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The unions depended on white organizers, generally from the North, Professor Hill said, and did not welcome black grass-roots leadership. The task is even more complicated now that Latin American immigrants form the bulk of the work force at scores of plants, he said.
"The need for outside organizers belonged to another era," Professor Hill said, "and now if you have an approach to the black community for organizing, you need an approach to the Latino community as well. Recognizing this will be decisive in labor's succeeding, and succeeding will be decisive in determining whether the labor movement will survive."
Officials of Sanderson Farms refused to comment on union efforts at their plants and refused to allow a reporter to visit the sites. But organizers and workers said in off-site interviews that the company had put up a ferocious fight. The company required workers, during their shifts, to attend meetings where managers recounted the disadvantages of unions, showed films of violent strikes and, Mr. Berry said, hinted that people would lose their jobs if the union was approved.
Mr. Johnson said the Sanderson company, with four processing plants in Mississippi, had been prepared to shift production if Collins workers had gone on strike. "That's why we needed the Hazlehurst plant organized," he said. "And the union's national officers gave us the resources that we needed."
 
A Union Defeat At a Modern Plant
 It was a different story 50 miles to the north, at the Tyson plant in Canton, where employees soundly defeated the union by a 2-to-1 margin. Workers like Dottie Spencer, who is 29, said they had tired of fighting the plant's previous owner, McCarty Farms, which had fought unionization through the courts.
So when Tyson bought the plant last year, just as a new union vote was scheduled, Ms. Spencer said, workers reasoned that it was perhaps time to give the new owner some maneuvering room and themselves another chance at higher pay.
A visitor recently found plant employees toiling at a seemingly leisurely pace along conveyor belts that carry chickens and chicken parts through the chilly room, kept at 50 degrees.
In the last 18 months, the plant has installed mechanized deboning machines that flay 82 thigh and breast pieces a minute. There is a year-old cutting machine that reduces whole birds to legs, wings, breasts and thighs. Next to it is the marinating machine, with 244 closely set needles that inject lemon pepper, lime herb seasoning or Tyson's spicy marinade into pieces before they are frozen.
The plant has none of the storied, Dickensian-feel of some other plants where workers with knives stand shoulder-to-shoulder at the assembly line, cutting, eviscerating, deboning and marinating chicken parts at breakneck speed. The repetitive motions often leave workers' hands swollen or even crippled.
But even automated plants need workers with scissors to trim fat at a hand-cramping eight pieces a minute. So the work remains hard.
"I wouldn't do that for $50 an hour with these hands," said Ms. Spencer, holding up manicured nails. She works in the packing area, where hands are subject to extreme cold, but comparatively little repetitive motion. "I need my hands. Plus, once you lose your hands, the company doesn't need you."
That same sense of self-preservation motivated Ms. Spencer and her co-workers to vote against the union in late November. She said she just would not trust anyone to speak for her because most labor activists of four years ago are gone -- dismissed or disabled. Anyway, she said, Tyson hinted at higher wages and, after the union's defeat, it delivered. Wages went up to $6.60 an hour, up from $6.25 an hour in August, just after Tyson bought the plant.
"And we are supposed to get a raise to $6.90 an hour in July," said Joyce Miggins, who works with Ms. Spencer. "The only thing that I could see that would make me vote for the union is if they didn't keep their promise to give us a raise."
Wayne B. Butler, who manages Tyson's Canton plant and three others, said: "People in the industry in times gone by who have unions have deserved them because they didn't know how to treat their people." By contrast, Mr. Butler said, "we're responsible for these people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Once-powerful industrial unions are trying to make inroads into a historically hostile segment of the economy: poultry processing plants in the South. One newly unionized site is the Tyson Foods plant in Hazlehurst, Miss., where workers along an assembly line cut up pieces of chicken. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SAFM (NASDAQ) (58%); TSN (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (58%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (58%); NAICS115210 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR ANIMAL PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (58%); SIC0751 LIVESTOCK SERVICES, EXCEPT VETERINARY (58%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (58%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (53%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (53%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (53%); NAICS112330 TURKEY PRODUCTION (53%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC; PERDUE FARMS INC SANDERSON FARMS INC (58%); TYSON FOODS INC (53%); PERDUE FARMS INC (53%); LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TYSON FOODS INC; PERDUE FARMS INC LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: POULTRY; LABOR; LABOR UNIONS LABOR UNIONS (93%); POULTRY PROCESSING (92%); POULTRY (92%); FOOD MFG (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LAYOFFS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



793 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Plans Welfare Limits And Incentives to Promote Work

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman proposed an overhaul of the state welfare program today that would provide more help to ease the transition to work and would let beneficiaries earn more outside income.
Calling her proposal "tough love at its best," Governor Whitman said the state would match this generosity with sternness. Benefits would be limited to five years, recipients would have to stay current with child support payments, and teen-age recipients would have to stay in school and live with a parent or other adult. 
 The proposals, outlined in the Governor's annual budget message to the State Legislature, borrow from dozens of pilot programs in other states and from proposed changes in the Federal welfare rules agreed to on Capitol Hill. In drawing up her plan, Mrs. Whitman has remained on the moderate Republican course she has set for her administration in her first two years in office.
For example, she avoided many of the strictest proposals backed in other states, including a 21-month limit on beneficiaries put into effect by Gov. John S. Rowland of Connecticut. And her plan includes not just more money for child care and job training, but a call for state-provided job counseling and help negotiating conflicts between welfare beneficiaries and employers.
To put her proposals into action, Mrs. Whitman needs the approval of the State Legislature and the Federal Government. Although she made the proposal in her budget address, she put no overall dollar figure on her welfare plan. She only said that it would cost no more than the state now spends on welfare.
"President Clinton has challenged the states to come up with ways to reform welfare," Mrs. Whitman said. "Mr. President, I accept that challenge," she added, to thunderous applause in the chambers of the General Assembly. "Give us block grants or give us waivers. But give New Jersey the green light to end welfare as we've known it -- now."
Mrs. Whitman also announced that she would support a proposal by the State Senate President, Donald T. DiFrancesco, to enable New Jerseyans to deduct their property taxes from their state income tax returns, as they could before 1990. The measure would cost about $200 million and is not included in the Governor's proposed $16 billion spending plan for the new fiscal year.
Mrs. Whitman also did not say how she would come up with $400 million to replenish the expired fund that pays for hospital care for the poor. The Governor said in her budget message that she intended to reduce overall state spending slightly, by less than 1 percent, but did not offer many specifics.
Senior Whitman administration officials began last week to make public some details of the budget, but the actual document will not be available until late next month, officials said. However, officials said that cuts would be proposed for several state agencies, particularly in the Departments of Environmental Protection and Human Services. And they are proposing to trim $26 million from the state's prescription program for the elderly by making it off-limits to 33,000 seniors who have liquid assets of $50,000 and greater.
The Whitman administration's spending plan assumes moderate growth in the state's economy, even though some economists see recent signs that the state's economy is weakening. Federal unemployment figures were 7.3 percent in December, and 7,000 workers from AT&T will be laid off in the coming months. The administration, however, assumes that fewer jobs will be created this year as in the previous year, which raises questions about how easy it will be for welfare recipients to find work in a declining economy.
"Certainly, any of those welfare reforms are going to be much easier in an up economy rather than a slowing economy," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy. "If we have vigorous job growth, the question of job availability would be answered."
In New Jersey, the state spends almost $1 billion on welfare. There are almost 117,000 families, mostly single-parent homes, receiving welfare benefits that average $424 a month. There are 35,021 single adults or childless couples receiving an average of $140 a month in general assistance. The Whitman administration's goal is reduce the welfare rolls by 15 percent within five years.
Democrats were generally supportive of the Whitman proposal, noting that the author of the state's most recent welfare changes, State Senator Wayne Bryant of Camden, had been pressing for a requirement that teenagers on welfare live at home, provided that they were not victims of abuse or incest. But the Democratic Senator said he is opposed to a five-year time limit. "When you start insisting that one size fits all," he said, "that's what the Federal Government had been doing for years and that is what we are trying to get away from at the state level."
Governor Whitman's welfare program, called Work First New Jersey, would shift focus from providing recipients with job training and education programs aimed at obtaining jobs with competitive salaries and benefits to training and placing recipients in lower-paying, entry-level positions that do not necessarily offer health benefits. "We are saying that people have to start somewhere," said William Waldman, Commissioner of Human Services.
To assist those who get jobs, Mr. Waldman said that the program envisions offering more intensive job-counseling services, training and home visits. And if a new worker has problems with a boss, the state would provide "coaches" to intervene and try to smooth things over.
Under the current system, welfare recipients who find jobs lose their benefits. Under the Whitman proposal, they would preserve most of their benefits on a sliding scale. The administration would seek a waiver from the Federal Government, allowing them to increase the level of earnings a recipient might collect before losing eligibility.
Currently, a mother of two could earn up to $750 a month before losing eligibility. The new proposal would allow her to earn $848 a month. After leaving the welfare rolls, she would be able to keep her child-care benefits for one year, and Medicaid for two -- just as she can now.
The plan allows participants to keep up to 100 percent of their earned income for the first month of employment and 50 percent of their income without losing benefits until they exceed income eligibility requirements.
The Whitman administration plan would double the investment the state now makes in supporting work activities and child care. The new plan also would expand available day-care services. At present, only 13,000 families have children in state-supported child-care programs. The Whitman proposal would also provide vouchers to participants to help them pay for transportation to their new jobs and to cover other work-related expenses.
Mrs. Whitman said that in exchange for this support, recipients would be required to show some "personal responsibility." Her plan would require mothers 18 or younger to live with a parent or a guardian and remain in school to remain eligible for benefits. The program also would require them to name their child's father and obtain a court order for child support.
After five years, recipients would be dropped from the welfare rolls.
Advocates for the poor called the time limit unfair. "The problem with time limits is that as long as we have unemployment there will be parents who can not find a job," said Mark Greenburg, senior staff attorney at the Center for Law and Justice in Washington.
Senior Whitman administration officials said that a limited number of hardship exemptions would be granted, but they would not exceed 15 percent and would be determined on a case-by-case basis.
 
WHITMAN'S PROPOSALS
Highlights of the Budget
 
Following are the main recommendations of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's 1997 budget proposal.
 
WELFARE
 
The centerpiece of Governor Whitman's 1997 budget proposal is her welfare program. It calls for these intiatives:
 
Reducing the number of people on welfare rolls to 109,000, from the current 117,000, in five years by forcing most recipients off the rolls after five years, while encouraging recipients to seek jobs.
 
Requiring teen-age parents on welfare to live at home or under adult supervision.
 
Allowing recipients to earn up to $848 a month without losing their grants, up from the current limit of $750. Grant levels would remain unchanged at $424 a month for a mother with two children.
 
Entitling recipients to have up to $2,000 in savings -- up from $1,000 -- and still qualify for welfare.
 
THE ELDERLY
 
Programs for the elderly covering prescription subsidies, counseling, transportation and nursing home information would be consolidated into a new Department of Health and Senior Services.
 
TAX CUTS
 
Property owners would be allowed to deduct their property taxes from state income tax, at a cost to the state of $200 million.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Governor Whitman called her welfare proposal "tough love at its best." (Associated Press)(pg. A1); Drawing from programs in other states, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman yesterday proposed an overhaul of New Jersey's welfare system. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B4)
 
Graph: "ADDING IT UP: New Jersey's Welfare Caseload" shows number of New Jersey residents receiving general assistance and Aid to Families With Dependent Children from 1990 to 1996. (Source: New Jersey Division of Familt Development)(pg. B4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



794 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Stocks Again Set Records, Led by Drug Issues
The stock market rose, as the Dow industrials marched past 5,300 points for the first time, closing at 5,304.98, up 33.23, on strong corporate earnings and hopes for an interest rate cut.
Drug stocks and cyclical issues were particularly strong. Merck climbed 1, to 68 7/8, after announcing a study demonstrating that an experimental drug reduced the AIDS-causing virus to undetectable levels. [Page D8.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities fell sharply, weighed down by a weaker dollar, an increase in the supply of new debt coming to market and a rush of new economic data. [D16.]
 
Norwest to Buy Prudential Unit
Norwest said it would buy Prudential Home Mortgage, the mortgage-lending unit of Prudential Insurance, and half its mortgage-processing business to bolster its No. 1 position in the mortgage industry. [D4.]
 
Loewen Settles Suit; Shares Surge
The Loewen Group, a Canadian funeral home chain, agreed to settle for $175 million a Mississippi lawsuit that it said would have pushed the company toward bankruptcy. Its shares rose $8.50, to $29, even though Loewen faces another suit in Philadelphia. [D5.]
 
A U.S. Battle Over Siberian Logging
A forestry project by American entrepreneurs and their Russian partners to use gamma-ray technology to kill pests in Siberian logs to be exported to the United States has stirred the ire of environmentalists. [A3.]
 
Micron Mum on Reconciliation
Steve Appleton, Micron Technology's chief executive, was back on board Friday just a week after resigning. But at a shareholders' meeting in Boise, Idaho, he declined to explain his actions. [D4.]
 
Compaq Tops List of PC Sellers
Compaq Computer retained its top ranking among the world's PC marketers last year, but I.B.M. edged past Apple as No. 2, Dataquest said. Worldwide personal computer sales grew nearly 25 percent, to 59.7 million. [D4.]
 
NEC Tops Japanese List
In Japan, local PC makers outsold American rivals last year, Dataquest Japan reported. NEC kept its No. 1 position, followed by Fujitsu. Apple Computer dropped to third place from second in 1994. [D4.]
 
Texaco Names Bijur Chairman
Texaco named Peter I. Bijur, a 53-year-old senior vice president with wide experience overseas, to succeed Alfred C. DeCrane Jr. as chairman and chief executive on July 1. [D5.]
 
Investors' Group Seeks Sassco
An investment group led by Three Cities Research is offering to buy Sassco, the most profitable division of the Leslie Fay Companies, the women's apparel maker, for $240 million in cash and stock. Neither the creditor committee to which the offer was sent nor the company has responded. [D2.]
 
MCI and Microsoft: Internet Allies
MCI Communications, which already has an on-line partnership with the News Corporation, announced an alliance with Microsoft to develop and market on-line and Internet services. Bert C. Roberts, MCI's chairman and chief executive, said, "We are pushing our boat into Microsoft's waters as we go forward." [D2.]

Wall Street Skeptical of Old Navy
As trendy shoppers picked through shelves of cheap overalls and sweatshirts at Gap's Old Navy clothing stores during the Christmas season, investors cast a more jaundiced eye on Gap stock, fearful Old Navy's profit margins were too skimpy. Market Place. [D8.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,304.98, up 33.23
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
 30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.09%, up 0.05
 The Dollar -- 106.75 yen, up 0.08
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
Retail Sales
 December figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.7%
 
General Motors
 4th-quarter earnings due early in the day.
 Expected: $1.35 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%); NWS (NASDAQ) (60%); NWS (ASX) (60%); MU (NASDAQ) (54%); FUJ (LSE) (53%); 6702 (TSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); NEWS CORP (60%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (54%); FUJITSU LTD (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); TEXACO NAMES BIJUR (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXACO NAMES BIJUR (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); IDAHO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RANKINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (87%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (75%); COMPUTER MAKERS (74%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (72%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (71%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (70%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); LITIGATION (68%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (67%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (63%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (63%); APPAREL MFG (61%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); 

PERSON: STEVEN R APPLETON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



795 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Plans To Eliminate Five Agencies

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
Redrawing the blueprint of New York City's municipal bureaucracy, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani plans to propose eliminating at least five city agencies -- including the Department of Transportation -- and consolidating their functions into other offices, senior aides said yesterday.
The proposals, part of the preliminary budget the Mayor is to unveil tomorrow, could save millions of dollars by consolidating administrative positions and functions. The aides said they would not result in any layoffs but would allow the city to reduce its payroll of more than 200,000 workers through attrition and streamline services. 
 First Deputy Mayor Peter J. Powers said yesterday that Mr. Giuliani would model the proposals on the the merger of the city's three police forces last year. The merger has, by all accounts, freed many police officers from administrative duties. Now, for the first time, Mr. Giuliani has proposed reducing the total police force of 38,000 officers, by 1,000.
As a candidate and as Mayor, Mr. Giuliani has pledged to reinvent the city's sprawling bureaucracy. But in his first two years, he has accomplished little in that regard beyond the police merger and the consolidation of some smaller divisions, like moving the Parking Violations Bureau into the Department of Finance.
With the new proposals, Mr. Giuliani would significantly reshape government. They also come after his proposals earlier this month to create two new agencies -- one to oversee child protective services and another to handle emergency management.
"This is part of reinventing government," Mr. Powers said.
Under the proposals, the aides said, the Department of Transportation's functions would be parceled out to a variety of agencies. Its entire traffic-enforcement division would move to the Police Department and bridge construction to the city's new capital construction agency.
Mr. Powers said the department's maintenance and repair functions would be consolidated into a new agency tentatively called the Department of Infrastructure Maintenance, as would those of the Department of General Services, which maintains the city's 42 office buildings. The administrative and contract functions of general services, as well as those of the Department of Personnel, would merge into another agency called the Department of Citywide Administrative Services.
In the case of transportation, the plan would undo the consolidation of the department in 1977, under Mayor Abraham D. Beame, from a variety of other agencies that had overseen bridges and highways. Mr. Powers said it did not make sense to have one agency handle such diverse functions as traffic enforcement, collection of fines and construction.
Other senior aides, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the city's Community Development Agency would also absorb the Department of Youth Services and the Department of Employment. Both those agencies, like the development agency, award contracts to private or nonprofit organizations that provide recreational, educational or job-training services.
All of the consolidations would require the approval of the City Council as part of the Mayor's overall budget. Any or all could be blocked, as was the case with previous consolidation proposals floated by Mr. Giuliani and his predecessors. And even before the latest proposals became public, there were signs yesterday of potential opposition, both from advocacy groups and officials of the Council.
Michael S. Clendenin, a spokesman for the Council's Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said the Council would evaluate the proposals as part of the Mayor's overall plan to close a budget gap for the new fiscal year that has grown to at least $2 billion. His response, however, showed a degree of skepticism.
"We'll see if any of these proposals really make sense or if the administration is just rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic," he said.
Elliot G. Sander, Commissioner of the Department of Transportation, declined to comment on the proposal. It remained unclear of what would happen to the commissioners now heading the agencies once the consolidations took effect with the new fiscal year on July 1. Mr. Powers said that no decisions had been made.
The idea of disbanding the Department of Transportation, with its budget of $500 million and its payroll of 6,149 workers, is not new. Lucius J. Riccio, the Commissioner of Transportation under Mayor David N. Dinkins, proposed a consolidation of its functions twice before, in 1992 and 1993, with no success.
Mr. Riccio said yesterday that the idea made sense because the department had grown unwieldy since its inception two decades ago. "I think it was too large and diverse a department to be manageable," he said. "Each one of these functions makes more sense in other places."
Others disagreed. Two advocacy groups, Transportation Alternatives and the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, said dismantling the agency would fragment planning and relegate long-term planning to a secondary status within city government.
"Who's going to deal with the global transportation issues?" said John Kaehny, executive director of Transportation Alternatives.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (NYC); YOUTH SERVICES DEPARTMENT (NYC); EMPLOYMENT, DEPARTMENT OF (NYC); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (GSA); PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT (NYC) GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (NYC); YOUTH SERVICES DEPARTMENT (NYC); EMPLOYMENT, DEPARTMENT OF (NYC); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (GSA); PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT (NYC) GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (68%); POLITICS (67%); PARKING OFFENSES (66%); CHILD WELFARE (64%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (63%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (62%); CONTRACT AWARDS (61%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



796 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: Palestinians Owe Yasir Arafat Their Present and Future;
Israeli Homeowners

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Flat Tax Lite" (Op-Ed, Jan. 23): Alvin Rabushka points to Israel as a country where home ownership is more common than in the United States despite -- or as he seems to suggest, because of -- the lack of a mortgage interest deduction. 
 The high rate of home ownership in Israel can be ascribed directly to heavy government intervention in the housing market, through subsidies to young couples and new immigrants.
 
EPHRAIM KLEIMAN
Prof. of Economics, Hebrew U.
Jerusalem, Jan. 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FLAT TAX TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (86%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: RABUSHKA, ALVIN; KLEIMAN, EPHRAIM TZIPORA LIVNI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



797 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Logging in Siberia Sets Off a Battle in the U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 29

 BODY:
A team of American entrepreneurs and their Russian partners have devised a novel way to turn cold-war atomic expertise to peacetime profits: by sterilizing Russian logs with radiation to make them safe for export to the United States.
Backers call the plan a shining example of one nation helping another to beat bombs into buzz saws. But opponents see it as part of an environmentally reckless raid on the planet's greatest conifer forests. 
 Already, the proposal has received financial support from a little-known venture fund sponsored by the Pentagon, and condemnation from a conservation group that likewise gets Federal aid.
It is one of many joint forestry projects encouraged by the American timber industry and the Russian Federation, the kind of venture that Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia are striving to nurture at their latest economic consultations in Washington this week.
The idea is to bombard timber harvested in Siberia with gamma rays, emitted by radioactive cobalt, killing any pests that might accidentally infest American forests as the logs are shipped to American sawmills in the Pacific Northwest, where environmental laws have constrained logging.
Supporters say the project would employ thousands of Russians and earn millions of foreign-exchange dollars while preserving American sawmill jobs.
But environmentalists fear that unfettered logging could damage virgin forests and the habitat of rare species in the vast Siberian wilderness. They are also skeptical of the safety and effectiveness of the gamma-ray technology, a sterilization method that caused a stir in the United States a few years ago when companies proposed marketing similarly processed raw foods, and that is now permitted but not widespread.
Finally, the critics question the merit for Russia of building up a timber industry based primarily on exports of unfinished goods.
None of this has diminished the powerful lure of the Siberian forests for American investors, often operating with Government subsidies.
In September, the Defense Enterprise Fund, a private, nonprofit American venture capital company, agreed to invest $1 million in the wood irradiation project. The fund, which received its initial capital from the Defense Department, seeks to convert arms producers of the former Soviet Union into businesses serving nonmilitary markets.
The project's for-profit American investors, led by REM Capital Corporation of Arlington, Va., have promised that as many as 11 radiation plants in Russia would supply enough timber to sawmills in this country to preserve domestic sawmill jobs, lower wood prices and fill what they call a gap in domestic timber supplies. The investment could approach $100 million, said Ronald E. Muller, REM's chairman.
Leaders of 47 American and Russian environmental groups wrote to Vice President Gore last month to express "alarm" about several timber projects, saying Siberia and the Russian Far East could be transformed into "a massive whole-log export colony."
"Siberia and the Russian Far East offer some wonderful opportunities for both protecting biodiversity and creating a model of sustainable development, rather than promoting an economy based on the export of natural resources," said David Gordon, head of the Siberian forests protection project at the Pacific Environment and Resources Center, a nonprofit group in Sausalito, Calif.
At a White House meeting on Jan. 10, environmentalists called for assurances that all such projects comply with both long-standing American environmental regulations and untested new Russian rules.
In 1994, the two countries signed a memorandum of understanding to expand Russian forest products industries, calling for millions of dollars in trade of wood, pulp, paper products and related equipment.
A separate understanding pledges the two Governments to cooperate in environmental protection, and several agencies are carrying out projects in Russia to promote sustainable forestry, replanting, fire prevention and the like.
A report by the Pacific Environmental and Resources Center, which is critical of the broad timber initiative, cited these actions on various logging proposals:
*The Commerce Department's Trade and Development Administration has granted $500,000 to Global Forestry Management Group, a consortium of Pacific Northwest sawmills, for a feasibility study of logging millions of acres of old-growth forests in Khabarovsk, perhaps including areas where the rare Siberian tiger is sometimes found.
*The Overseas Private Investment Corporation, which provides political-risk insurance and other subsidies, is considering several logging ventures, including the Global Forestry Management Group project.
*The Export-Import Bank, which provides lending assistance to promote trade, is working on an agreement that would ease Russian borrowing to buy logging equipment.
*Various privately managed, nonprofit enterprise corporations that receive their initial capital from Federal tax dollars are supporting forestry projects, including the Russian-American Ionized Energy Services' gamma-rays plan.
Russian-American Ionized Energy Services is a joint venture incorporated in the United States. Its founding shareholders are REM Capital Corporation; the V. G. Khlopini Radium Institute of St. Petersburg, Russia, and the institute's parent organization, the Russian Federation's Ministry for Atomic Radiation. Other investors include a Norwegian shipping concern, the Russian investment arm of Paine Webber, and the newly privatized Russian Forestry Industrial Company.
The plans, supporters say, would yield hundreds of millions of board feet of timber, directly employing 11,000 Russians in the radiation plants and indirectly many times more in the woods, while supplying American sawmills that employ 100,000 workers. In addition, they would earn hard currency for Russia and keep down wood prices in the United States, supporters say.
The opposition is led by the Pacific Environment and Resources Center, which has received environmental protection grants from the United States Agency for International Development.
Although environmentalists have questioned the safety and effectiveness of the nuclear treatments, their main objection is not to the use of radiation to sterilize the wood. They contend that the planned projects will seriously damage the forests and that exporting whole logs would do relatively little to create jobs and help the Russian economy.
Sponsors of the project say they expect Washington regulatory agencies to approve the technique for use in controlling pests in wood products.
They even claim a potential environmental benefit: radiation treatments could substitute for the fumigation of wood chips with methyl bromide, which is often used on chips exported to the United States from countries like Chile and New Zealand. Use of methyl bromide is being phased out because its emissions damage the atmosphere's protective ozone layer, a major environmental concern. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 1, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about proposed timber imports from Russia referred incorrectly to a Federal agency that issued a grant for a feasibility study of logging old-growth forests in Siberia. It is the U.S. Trade and Development Agency, not the Trade and Development Administration; it is an independent agency, not a part of the Commerce Department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; RADIATION FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); SAW MILLS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WILDERNESS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



798 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1986 words

HEADLINE: Unions Try to Push Past Workers' Fears to Sign Up Poultry Plants in South

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: HAZLEHURST, Miss.

 BODY:
Cantrail Berry recalls the day Rossco Johnson showed up at the Sanderson Farms chicken processing plant, driving a shiny black, souped-up pickup truck with a throaty Floatmaster muffler, chrome-plated wheels and the Laborers' International Union of North America logo painted in gold on the doors.
Automobile envy soon gave way to talk of Mr. Berry's grueling job on the assembly line, picking chickens out of giant vats and hanging them from hooks on an overhead belt, reaching in and reaching up 10 to 12 chickens a minute. After 30 days of furtive, one-on-one organizing, Mr. Johnson had persuaded Mr. Berry, 24, and some of his friends to organize a labor union at the Sanderson plant in Collins, and then here in Hazlehurst. 
 "The idea of the union frightened me at first," Mr. Berry said. "But I knew it was time to make a change. The way the supervisors were harassing us and calling us 'boy,' I knew we had to get respect."
Increasingly, this courtship is being played out at poultry processing plants across Mississippi, Arkansas and Georgia as the nation's once-powerful industrial labor unions, struggling to bolster sagging membership and influence, go after a kind of worker they once ignored.
In the flush days of the American labor movement, workers like Mr. Berry made too little money and worked in states far too hostile to organized labor to attract its attention. Even as layoffs mounted in labor's traditional strongholds -- the North and Midwest -- unions focused on winning higher wages for existing members rather than seeking to expand.
Now, with the nation's economy being largely driven by nonunion businesses, many of them in the South and Southwest, the labor movement cannot be so choosy. In recent months, organizers have been fanning across the region into the plants of poultry giants like Tyson Foods and Perdue Farms.
"There is a quiet resurgence in organizing, and it is in the South and it is in the poultry industry," said Richard Bensinger, the executive director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Organizing Institute, which trains organizers for union campaigns. "This is a real opportunity for the labor movement, but I don't know whether we will be writing 10 years from now that we used it or that we blew it."
That opportunity brings with it a formidable challenge. Labor organizers are not only trying to make inroads in the South, hostile territory where union membership has historically been a rarity, but are also trying to work within an industry with a low level of union membership; only 20 percent of its 200,000 workers nationwide belong to unions. While it is too early to predict the ultimate outcome of organizers' efforts, labor's record is even so far: it has won over about as many poultry plants as it has lost.
While poultry companies are reacting to the onslaught by saying they are not concerned, they are vigorously opposing union campaigns.
 
Great Resistance To Labor Unions
What labor is greedily eyeing is an industry whose explosive growth has helped fuel the South's economic success. The poultry industry once consisted of many small companies and thousands of plants scattered across the country, but it is now dominated by a few giants whose plants are mostly concentrated in the South.
It is also an industry with jobs that are among the least attractive and lowest paid, along the chilled, wet "disassembly line," where chickens are halved and quartered, snipped and rended at an unrelenting pace.
For decades, trying to organize these workers was a Sisyphean task, the result of the region's right-to-work laws, which allow nonunion shops and give workers in unionized shops the option to stay out of unions and pay no dues. Unions' difficulties in the South reflect political and social bias against unions, the reliance of rural economies on local poultry plants and the intractability of race and sex discrimination among some locally important employers.
"But the whole country has become the South in terms of low wages," Mr. Bensinger said, making the region's poultry industry the perfect proving ground for a resurgence of labor organizing.
So great is the organizing potential of these factories that rival unions are competing. Mr. Johnson's Laborers' union and Unite, an offshoot of the Textile Workers of America United, are venturing into plants that had been the province of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union and the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.
The July vote in Sanderson's Collins plant was breathtakingly close, with 17 votes spelling union victory. And only half the 1,300 employees joined. It was only in October, after the union successfully organized the Sanderson plant here in Hazlehurst, that management came to the bargaining table. Negotiations produced a new contract paying $6.90 an hour to one-year employees, making the Sanderson workers the highest-paid processing plant workers in Mississippi.
There have been some defeats for the unions as well, an indication that they sometimes face an uphill battle. A vote last December at Tyson's plant in Canton, Miss., went against the union by a 2-to-1 margin. A union was also rejected at a Perdue plant in Dothan, Ala., amid union accusations of management-inspired cross burnings aimed at intimidating black workers. Nonunion forces also triumphed at Perdue plants in Lewiston, N.C., and Robersonville, N.C.
Perhaps because there has been a rough parity between management and union victories in the last 18 months, industry representatives insist that they are not concerned about organizing efforts. Richard Lobb, a spokesman for the National Broiler Council, which represents the industry's 45 major companies, said that the council did not focus on union issues and did not help members defeat union campaigns.
"It's just not an issue that we really track," Mr. Lobb said.
Archie Schaffer, the spokesman for Tyson Foods, the nation's largest poultry company, said that only 11 of Tyson's 80 plants had unions and that even at the unionized plants, most workers had not joined.
 
Working Conditions Top List of Issues
In December, Tyson faced down its most recent union challenge at a newly bought plant in Canton. And Richard Auletta, a spokesman for Perdue Farms, the nation's third-largest chicken producer and processer, said there had been three attempts to organize Perdue plants in the last year. Although all were defeated, they represented the first such attempts by unions in almost 15 years, Mr. Auletta said.
Chicken production in the United States has grown about two-hundredfold in the last six decades, to 6.7 billion birds in 1993 from 34 million in 1934. In that same period, employment in processing plants has grown to 200,000 workers from 19,000, making it second only to automobile parts in manufacturing job growth, said Prof. Marc Linder, an expert at the University of Iowa Law School.
Turnover is high in poultry plants, Professor Linder said, making sustained organizing difficult. The issues for workers tend to be basic, like getting bathroom breaks and protecting employees in an atmosphere of ever-increasing assembly-line speeds. But because many workers are single mothers or recent immigrants who are afraid of losing their jobs, he said, they are reluctant to speak up, much less organize.
The problems of past, unsuccessful labor efforts in the South were recalled by Prof. Herbert Hill, who teaches African-American studies and industrial relations at the University of Wisconsin and who spent 30 years as the labor director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The unions depended on white organizers, generally from the North, Professor Hill said, and did not welcome black grass-roots leadership. The task is even more complicated now that Latin American immigrants form the bulk of the work force at scores of plants, he said.
"The need for outside organizers belonged to another era," Professor Hill said, "and now if you have an approach to the black community for organizing, you need an approach to the Latino community as well. Recognizing this will be decisive in labor's succeeding, and succeeding will be decisive in determining whether the labor movement will survive."
Officials of Sanderson Farms refused to comment on union efforts at their plants and refused to allow a reporter to visit the sites. But organizers and workers said in off-site interviews that the company had put up a ferocious fight. The company required workers, during their shifts, to attend meetings where managers recounted the disadvantages of unions, showed films of violent strikes and, Mr. Berry said, hinted that people would lose their jobs if the union was approved.
Mr. Johnson said the Sanderson company, with four processing plants in Mississippi, had been prepared to shift production if Collins workers had gone on strike. "That's why we needed the Hazlehurst plant organized," he said. "And the union's national officers gave us the resources that we needed."
 
A Union Defeat At a Modern Plant
 It was a different story 50 miles to the north, at the Tyson plant in Canton, where employees soundly defeated the union by a 2-to-1 margin. Workers like Dottie Spencer, who is 29, said they had tired of fighting the plant's previous owner, McCarty Farms, which had fought unionization through the courts.
So when Tyson bought the plant last year, just as a new union vote was scheduled, Ms. Spencer said, workers reasoned that it was perhaps time to give the new owner some maneuvering room and themselves another chance at higher pay.
A visitor recently found plant employees toiling at a seemingly leisurely pace along conveyor belts that carry chickens and chicken parts through the chilly room, kept at 50 degrees.
In the last 18 months, the plant has installed mechanized deboning machines that flay 82 thigh and breast pieces a minute. There is a year-old cutting machine that reduces whole birds to legs, wings, breasts and thighs. Next to it is the marinating machine, with 244 closely set needles that inject lemon pepper, lime herb seasoning or Tyson's spicy marinade into pieces before they are frozen.
The plant has none of the storied, Dickensian-feel of some other plants where workers with knives stand shoulder-to-shoulder at the assembly line, cutting, eviscerating, deboning and marinating chicken parts at breakneck speed. The repetitive motions often leave workers' hands swollen or even crippled.
But even automated plants need workers with scissors to trim fat at a hand-cramping eight pieces a minute. So the work remains hard.
"I wouldn't do that for $50 an hour with these hands," said Ms. Spencer, holding up manicured nails. She works in the packing area, where hands are subject to extreme cold, but comparatively little repetitive motion. "I need my hands. Plus, once you lose your hands, the company doesn't need you."
That same sense of self-preservation motivated Ms. Spencer and her co-workers to vote against the union in late November. She said she just would not trust anyone to speak for her because most labor activists of four years ago are gone -- dismissed or disabled. Anyway, she said, Tyson hinted at higher wages and, after the union's defeat, it delivered. Wages went up to $6.60 an hour, up from $6.25 an hour in August, just after Tyson bought the plant.
"And we are supposed to get a raise to $6.90 an hour in July," said Joyce Miggins, who works with Ms. Spencer. "The only thing that I could see that would make me vote for the union is if they didn't keep their promise to give us a raise."
Wayne B. Butler, who manages Tyson's Canton plant and three others, said: "People in the industry in times gone by who have unions have deserved them because they didn't know how to treat their people." By contrast, Mr. Butler said, "we're responsible for these people."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 1996, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 30 about efforts by American labor unions to organize poultry workers in the South misstated the period during which Prof. Marc Linder of the University of Iowa Law School says poultry processing was second to the automobile-parts industry in manufacturing job growth. The article also misstated the number of jobs involved. The period was 1983-1993, during which poultry plant employment grew to 193,000 from 115,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Once-powerful industrial unions are trying to make inroads into a historically hostile segment of the economy: poultry processing plants in the South. One newly unionized site is the Tyson Foods plant in Hazlehurst, Miss., where workers along an assembly line cut up pieces of chicken. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SAFM (NASDAQ) (58%); TSN (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (58%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (58%); NAICS115210 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR ANIMAL PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (58%); SIC0751 LIVESTOCK SERVICES, EXCEPT VETERINARY (58%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (58%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (53%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (53%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (53%); NAICS112330 TURKEY PRODUCTION (53%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC; PERDUE FARMS INC SANDERSON FARMS INC (58%); TYSON FOODS INC (53%); PERDUE FARMS INC (53%); LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TYSON FOODS INC; PERDUE FARMS INC LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); ; NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: POULTRY; LABOR; LABOR UNIONS LABOR UNIONS (93%); POULTRY PROCESSING (92%); POULTRY (92%); FOOD MFG (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LAYOFFS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1996



799 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Cape Town Discovers Olive Oil

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT 

 BODY:
THE Mediterranean diet is starting to show up in South Africa. And with it comes olive oil.
Cutting-edge chefs are using olive oil in their cooking. Wine stores and fancy food shops are putting bottles of extra virgin olive oil from Italy, Greece and Spain on display. And more significantly, some wineries in South Africa, like those in Italy and California, have started producing their own extra virgin olive oil. 
 The region around Cape Town, which is home to the country's wine-producing areas, has a maritime climate not unlike that of the French Riviera, a climate that can easily support the cultivation of olive trees. But until very recently, there was not much demand for olive oil.
"An olive oil renaissance in South Africa" is what Anthony Hamilton-Russell, the owner of Hamilton Russell Vineyards east of Cape Town, calls it. He began experimenting three years ago, making oil from the trees scattered on his vineyard land. Trial and error eventually led to a bottling of a small amount of cold-pressed oil. At 30 rand (around $9) for 375 milliliters (the size of a half-bottle of wine), it is priced right up there with the good imports.
The rich, slightly peppery Hamilton Russell Vineyards 1995 olive oil, labeled extra virgin, unfiltered, first cold-pressed, is the first of the South African olive oils that can compete favorably with some of the estate oils of Italy, Spain or California.
Mr. Hamilton-Russell, whose winery is known for its trend-setting chardonnay and pinot noir, intends to plant another 37 acres of olive trees -- the Italian varieties that are better for oil, like Leccino and Frantoio.
Fairview, a winery in Paarl, a district north of Cape Town, also made olive oil for the first time last year -- and sold out its entire production of 1,000 bottles of 375 milliliters. Fairview's oil is a pale gold, with a rather one-dimensional ripe olive flavor.
Though South Africa's Mediterranean climate has been hospitable to vineyards and wine making for more than 300 years, olives and olive oil are a 20th-century phenomenon. Among the first producers was Costas in Paarl. Ferdinand Costas emigrated from the Liguria area of Italy in 1903 and planted orchards in 1925. His son Philip has continued the family business since 1936. Recently the company began making a cold-pressed extra virgin oil.
"The interest is starting, and we are even beginning to look at the export market," Mr. Costas said. "But there are economic factors." Farmers can get 1,500 rand (around $500) a ton for oil, he said, "but they get three times as much for olives -- and with less labor." Still, Mr. Costas plans to increase his olive oil production by adding more than 100 acres of trees.
Costas's cold-pressed extra virgin olive oil, fruity but fairly bland, is light in color. Another producer, Jan Bothma, planted 4,200 olive trees in 1972 in Swartland, in a region called the Karoo east of Cape Town. His Swartrivier brand oil, labeled virgin cold-pressed, is thin and pale, with little flavor and a faint aroma.
Mr. Hamilton-Russell said there was a general lack of appreciation of fine olive oils in South Africa. "There is a danger that people will assume that an aged olive oil is better than a young olive oil," he said. His oil carries a vintage date.
But because olive oil is a fresh product with a limited shelf life, South Africa's location in the Southern Hemisphere may eventually work to its advantage in the world market. It could provide oil in the late fall and early winter, just as supplies of the last harvest from the Northern Hemisphere begin to dwindle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hamilton Russell Vineyards started producing olive oil three years ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); ITALY (94%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (78%); GREECE (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (93%); 

COMPANY: HAMILTON RUSSELL VINEYARDS (SOUTH AFRICA)

ORGANIZATION: HAMILTON RUSSELL VINEYARDS (SOUTH AFRICA)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (95%); ITALY (94%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (78%); GREECE (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OLIVE OIL; COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); OILS & FATS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (89%); OLIVE OIL PROCESSING (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (88%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); CLIMATOLOGY (70%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); FAMILY COMPANIES (60%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE FERDINAND COSTAS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1996



800 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Bangladesh Workers Organize for Rights

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Economic Surge in Bangladesh Undercut by Political Turmoil" (front page, Jan. 27): 
 The garment industry of Bangladesh is indeed experiencing an awakening, but not the kind you describe. The women working in the industry are awakening to their rights as human beings and as workers; tens of thousands have organized themselves to obtain recognition of those rights, and they are facing the opposition of employers.
Too bad you did not interview the leaders of the Bangladesh Independent Garment Workers Union, all of whose 15 board members are garment workers, 11 of them women.
Most industry workers get below the minimum wage of $23 a month, are forced to work 12 to 14 hours a day, sometimes through the night, seven days a week, and seldom get premium pay for overtime. When somebody speaks up for her rights, she is vilified or beaten or fired.
You report that the garment factories have recorded $1.5 billion in sales to the United States. But as Hasna Hena, the union's president, has asked: "Should one million workers continue to suffer while a few owners can strive to be as rich as the legendary moguls?"
From two visits to Dhaka, I know that the union leaders are not exaggerating the workers' plight. Two things I found the most shocking: the widespread employment of girls and boys under 14, contrary to law, and the hostility that garment industry employers express toward the union.
Violence against the workers has increased. One evening in November, 25 young armed goons burst into the union office, fired shots, tossed Molotov cocktails, assaulted several officers and staff members, and warned them to close down the union. The threats have not worked. The workers are carrying on against great odds.
 
ROBERT A. SENSER
Reston, Va., Jan. 28, 1996
The writer is a retired Foreign Service Officer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: BANGLADESH (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGLADESH; BANGLADESH (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GARMENT WORKERS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); POLITICS (78%); WOMEN (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (76%); OVERTIME (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); SALES FIGURES (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SENSER, ROBERT A

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1996

 
