

1 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Oliver Sacks Joins Columbia Faculty

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
Attracted by his breadth of interests, ranging from schizophrenia to music, Columbia University has appointed Oliver Sacks, the neurologist and writer, as its first Columbia artist, a newly created designation. 
 Beginning next week, Dr. Sacks, who has been a clinical professor of neurology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx for the past 42 years, is leaving to become a professor of clinical neurology and clinical psychiatry at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, a post he will occupy in addition to the new artist position. 
 The new appointment will allow Dr. Sacks, the author of 10 books and a frequent contributor to The New Yorker, to range freely across Columbia's departments, teaching, giving public lectures, conducting seminars, seeing patients and collaborating with other faculty members. Many of the details of his appointment have yet to be worked out, but among other things, he will be teaching in the university's creative writing department as well as at the medical school. 
 ''My first year at Columbia is going to be, to some extent, a year of experiment and exploration,'' Dr. Sacks said. ''I very much look forward to meeting students and faculty and doing classes that could be about almost anything, from music to psychiatry to whatever.''
 Dr. Sacks, 74, was born in London and moved to the United States in the early 1960s. He is perhaps best known as the author of ''Awakenings,'' which chronicles his treatment of patients with encephalitic lethargica (otherwise known as sleeping sickness) and was made into a 1990 movie starring Robert De Niro and Robin Williams.
 Another well-known book is ''The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat,'' a 1985 collection of essays about various patients with neurological problems. There are more than one million copies of all his books in print in the United States, and his work has been translated into more than 20 languages. His latest book, ''Musicophilia: Tales of Music and the Brain,'' is being published by Alfred A. Knopf in October.
 Lee C. Bollinger, president of Columbia, said Dr. Sacks's appointment exemplified the university's effort to bridge the gap between the study of neuroscience and other disciplines in which scholars work to understand human behavior, including economics, law and art history. 
 Dr. Sacks's appointment is ''a commitment both to having one of the great clinical neuroscientists in our midst and one of the great writers about this subject, but also a commitment to try to take that and reach out to other fields and human activities,'' Mr. Bollinger said.
 The university has committed $20 million to expanding the study of neuroscience to include an interdisciplinary approach, and last year it received a donation worth more than $200 million from Dawn M. Greene and the Jerome L. Greene Foundation to build a new center to house the university's Mind, Brain and Behavior Initiative, which will help apply neuroscience to multiple areas of scholarship.
 For his part, Dr. Sacks said he was looking forward to returning to the classroom. At Albert Einstein, he said, he had not taught formally since 1973. ''I've actually missed it,'' he said. He added: ''In a way, for me, this is a real entrance into university life such as I've never had, rather than a part-time medical appointment. I'm excited, because, in a way, I've been a sort of an outsider or freelancer or maverick for the last 40 years, and here I think it will be quite an intense sort of full relationship with Columbia.''
 Dr. Sacks said that although he was looking forward to exploring disciplines outside medicine, his clinical work would remain a focus, not least because it inspires so much of his writing. 
 ''The medical part of my life is very, very central,'' he said, recalling that his father, also a physician, kept coming out of retirement to go back to work. ''When he was 90, we said, 'Pop, at least stop the house calls,' and he said, 'I'll stop everything else but keep the house calls.' I want to see patients as long as I am able.''
 The appointment grew out of conversations that Dr. Sacks had with several people, including Eric Kandel, a Nobel laureate in medicine and a professor at Columbia, and Gregory Mosher, director of the Arts Initiative at Columbia, which aims to incorporate an interdisciplinary approach to the arts into the undergraduate experience. Dr. Sacks, Mr. Mosher said, is an exemplar of the ''Hey, kids, you can do more than one thing at a time'' message.
 Dr. Sacks's appointment at the medical school is being financed by a $1 million donation made over five years by the Gatsby Charitable Foundation, one of several foundations financed by the Sainsbury family of Britain, which owns a grocery chain.
 On Friday Dr. Sacks will give his first lecture, at Columbia's psychiatry department, where he will talk about music and neuroscience. He said the move to Columbia capped a gradual transition he has been making over the past decade.
 ''I used to be more withdrawn or isolated,'' he said. ''Now I love meeting colleagues and finding out what other people are doing.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oliver Sacks 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); WRITERS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); HISTORY (77%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



2 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUMMER RITUALS TURNING THE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: On the Outdoor Book Tour, the Word Is Spreading

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
With the slant of late-afternoon sun on his book, and the shade of a cafe umbrella at his back, Clifford Emmanuel let the din of Midtown Manhattan melt into Herodotus's ancient history. He had stumbled on one of the city's secret spaces, the Bryant Park Reading Room, a spot officially dedicated to an urban habit that tends to slip by unnoticed when cold weather comes, like a bookmark lost in park grass. 
 This week, as the season for outdoor reading sauntered past in a flourish of fine August weekdays, all New York was a place to take a book into the open air, from Brooklyn stoops to Manhattan courthouse steps, from the Sheep Meadow at high noon to dusk on benches with a Hudson River view. 
 But in the outdoor reading room, which was reopened behind the New York Public Library in 2003 after a hiatus of 60 years, Mr. Emmanuel, 23, had found just the right setting for his waning summer project: to read some of the books he skipped in college before the rest of his life takes over. Mr. Emmanuel, a 2006 Harvard graduate from Jamaica, Queens, who spent last year in Beijing, said he planned to begin searching for a management consulting job after Labor Day, leaving a few more days to read at will and at large. 
 ''I know I'll really look back on these days and miss them,'' he said, ''so I'm trying to make the most of them now.''
 Reading is a solitary pursuit, even a lone passage to a separate world. Yet to read in public, amid strangers, gives it another dimension. Sometimes the city speaks to the page, or the page seems to open up to people passing by. An outdoor reader shares the pulse of a timeless urban conversation between the world and the written word.
 ''I look around, and I think about what everybody else is reading,'' Mr. Emmanuel said, as people who had not brought their own printed matter browsed the shelves that the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation stocks with literary classics, popular novels and eclectic finds. ''And I wonder if maybe 2,000 years from now, people will be reading about New York City history.''
 The French writer Marguerite Duras once wrote that reading should be done only at night, because ''you can't read by two lights at once, the light of day and the light of the book.'' But many New Yorkers find their reading inspired not only by summer sunshine, but also by the city's own glare. 
 ''I look at the view, and all those buildings represent opportunities to grab,'' said Rich Donovan, an equity trader for Merrill Lynch who had looked up from a Ronald Reagan autobiography to take in the skyscrapers at the rim of the Sheep Meadow in Central Park. 
 ''For me, reading outdoors is more of a mental stimulation,'' added Mr. Donovan, 32, who has cerebral palsy and said his mind was partly on the pages of his book, and partly on the nonprofit organization he recently started ''to connect people with disabilities to the market economy.''
 A similar cocktail of words and urban landscape intoxicated Michael Ponterotto, 21, an aspiring filmmaker, as he glanced up from Neal Gabler's ''Walt Disney: The Triumph of the American Imagination,'' to take in the scene at Bryant Park.
 ''There's nothing better than the trees juxtaposed against the skyscrapers,'' crowed Mr. Ponterotto, who had been commuting from Mount Vernon to a summer internship at Channel 13. ''Even though it's loud and boisterous, it's conducive to inspiration.''
 To others, outdoor reading is a summer escape compact enough to fit into a smoke break, like the one taken by the Manhattan juror hunched on the steps of the Criminal Court building with a thriller by Koushun Takami called ''Battle Royale'' (''an insanely entertaining pulp riff,'' promised the blurb by Stephen King). 
 And reading in fresh air can help work masquerade as leisure. Susan Phung, a medical resident at St. Luke's Hospital, was perched on a boulder in Central Park near Columbus Circle. She was studying for board exams to the sound of distant bongos, pink highlighter in hand and pink flip-flops on her feet.
 Farther north, beside a pair of in-line skates, Boris Bozhdarov had been reading Hermann Hesse's last novel, ''The Glass Bead Game,'' which is set in a post-apocalyptic future among an elite cult of intellectuals. He stowed the paperback in his backpack, and prepared to skate away.
 ''It's green, relaxing, and you see people -- you think about them as characters in the book,'' he said of Central Park, where he had skated and read his way through several Hesse novels this summer. ''They're all very different in New York, so it's a great circus.''
 The Hesse marathon was Mr. Bozhdarov's farewell to an open-ended student life; at 28, after earning law degrees from the University of Sofia, Oxford and Columbia University, he plans to join a corporate law firm on Sept. 20.
 A few hills away, barefoot under a tree and still in the first chapter of her New York life, Katie Richanbach, a 19-year-old newcomer from Oregon, was reading Rona Jaffe's 28-year-old best seller ''Class Reunion.'' She had bought it at the Strand, ''where I buy all my books,'' she said, smoothing her sunset-colored cotton dress and reveling in her new persona as a soon-to-be freshman at the Parsons School for Design. 
 But what was that big volume an older woman bent over so intently in the grass a few yards away? A Bible in Russian, which the woman, Elena Kit, 49, a skin care specialist, said she was reading for the first time. 
 ''Life is tragedy,'' Ms. Kit said, apologizing for her imperfect English and her sudden tears. She explained that she was mourning the recent death of her daughter's 24-year-old boyfriend in Moscow. 
 ''Very good book, its promise, paradise,'' she added, with a gesture that took in the trees and dappled light. ''Adam's garden was here.''
 Even in a city mapped by literary references, Central Park is rarely identified as the Garden of Eden. But salvation could be found, too, on a bench in Grand Army Plaza, steps from Brooklyn's main public library, where Harold Frydman was deep in Deepak Chopra's ''How to Know God.'' 
 ''Reading outdoors really saved my life,'' said Mr. Frydman, 50. ''I was homeless for a while, living in the Atlantic-Bedford shelter. What saved me was this library, these benches and this park.''
 Mr. Frydman, now working as a cook, he said, had returned to take stock. ''Through a fall that was literally a fall, I came from a winter of discontent to a spring of renewal,'' he said. ''And here I am, finishing up the summer.''
 On Riverside Drive in Morningside Heights, two women sat on benches a block apart, one reading on her 20th birthday, the other in retirement.
 The first was Acadia Roher, from Arkansas, stirred by ''The Power Broker,'' Robert Caro's account of how Robert Moses shaped the city -- including Riverside Park. ''I am totally into it,'' she said, planning to read the remaining 1,100 pages before classes resume at Barnard next week. ''I was like, 'Oh, I'm sitting in Riverside Park!' ''
 The other, Laurel Molloy, had set down May Sarton's memoir, ''A World of Light: Portraits and Celebrations.'' The high dome of old trees in the park offered ''the coolness of a cathedral,'' she said. ''I call them the matrons of summer shade.'' 
 Reading here was more than reading, explained Ms. Molloy, retired from multiple careers, including educational missionary work in South Africa and fund-raising for cancer care. ''It's reading and stopping and reflecting on what you've read, and then letting your imagination roam,'' she said. ''I come out even in the winter,'' she added. ''Dress warmly, find a sunny spot, and you can still read out of doors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Courtney Czepiga, 25, spent one of the final days of her summer vacation reading a Harry Potter book in Sheep Meadow in Central Park.(pg. B1)
 Randi Fishkin reading ''Water for Elephants'' by Sara Gruen in Carl Schurz Park on the Upper East Side on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (84%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LIBRARIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); US LABOR DAY (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



3 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Living With Debt

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
WITH the stock market continuing to gyrate, home values iffy at best and personal debt climbing, Smart Money offers a back-to-basics cover article: ''Live Debt-Free.''
 Your goal, Brad Reagan writes, should be to have all your debt -- including the mortgage -- paid off before you retire.
 While the advice breaks no new ground -- pay off high-interest-rate credit cards quickly, lock in low interest rates for mortgages, and prepay whenever possible -- the examples show how costly it is to not do those things. That alone may get you to act. 
 ''Say you're carrying that average American balance of around $9,900 on a card with a 15 percent interest rate,'' Mr. Reagan writes. ''If you pay $250 per month, slightly more than the minimum payment, it'll take 55 months to pay off the card; by upping the payment to $1,000, you can pay it off in less a year -- and save yourself $3,100 in interest.'' 
 And, he adds, if you make the equivalent of one extra mortgage payment a year, you can save even more. Assuming you have a 30-year $400,000 mortgage and start making the extra payment from the beginning, you will pay off the mortgage seven years early and cut the interest you pay by about $100,000.
 The basic thought to keep in mind, when it comes to achieving your financial goals, he writes, is this: ''Paying interest works against you in the same way that earning it works for you.'' 
 SPEND LESS When asked what their biggest source of financial stress was, Men's Health readers overwhelmingly (70 percent) gave a simple answer: living beyond their means.
 In return, the magazine has provided a simple, straightforward response: spend less. Specifically, it says: ''Put your expenses on a 10 percent diet.''
 ''Focus on damage control,'' Jeff O'Connell writes, adding that cutting 10 to 15 percent from monthly expenses is easier than it may seem. Among his suggestions is checking cellphone use. Odds are that you are not using all the minutes in your plan and can downgrade to a cheaper one. And, he says, ask companies -- like your cable or satellite provider -- for a ''customer loyalty discount'' to keep you from shifting to a competitor.
 WILD AND CRAZY Not everyone is counting their pennies these days, GQ notes.
 ''With their 10-figure takeaways and peculiar passions ($500,000 watches), hedge fund geniuses are altering the luxury economy.''
 While it is no longer news that hedge fund managers are spending up to $50 million on primary residences and $45 million on private planes, the magazine lists other relatively less expensive baubles that are attracting their attention. Here are three that Heather Chaplin reported:
 The car of the moment is the Bugatti Veyron, described as the world's fastest legal car. The minimum price tops $1 million.
 Works by big-name artists are popular, with the managers spending from seven to nine figures for a piece. For example, Steven A. Cohen bought Willem de Kooning's ''Woman III'' for $137.5 million. 
 Custom exotic trips, at up to $50,000 a night, are the vacation style they prefer. For the less adventurous, Richard Branson, the president of Virgin Atlantic, rents out his private island, which has 50 staff members, for about $46,000 a night. 
 FINAL TAKE ''When it comes to their finances, today's twentysomethings are hardly carefree,'' Money writes. ''But most haven't turned that concern into positive action.''
 For example, in a survey conducted by the Gallup Organization for USA Today and the National Endowment for Financial Education, while 60 percent of respondents said that they felt they faced more financial pressure than the generations before and 30 percent worry ''frequently'' about what they owe, fewer than half (45 percent) have either an I.R.A. or 401(k). PAUL B. BROWN

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); COST OF LIVING (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); MEN (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



4 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Mired Talks On Trade To Resume

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
Negotiators in Geneva are set to resume talks on world trade on Monday at the start of another crucial period for the stalled negotiations, which began in 2001 and have been on the verge of collapse for months. 
 Discussions will focus on agriculture, one of the main obstacles to an accord, with negotiations on industrial issues and the trade of manufactured goods scheduled for the week after. The director general of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy, will meet with trade ministers from the Asia and Pacific region in Sydney, Australia, from Wednesday through Friday.
 Over the next two months, Mr. Lamy will have to decide whether enough progress has been made in negotiations to merit a full ministerial meeting on the so-called Doha round, named after the capital city of Qatar where the talks began. 
 In July, the chairmen of the negotiating committees in Geneva published draft proposals on the scope of cuts in tariffs and subsidies, as the basis for a possible agreement, which backers say would increase economic growth and lift more people in developing countries out of poverty. 
 To achieve that, they are seeking to lower customs duties around the world, cut the level of subsidies to farmers in the United States and force the European Union to reduce tariffs and get rid of export subsidies. 
 While officials say that the gap has been narrowed in the negotiations, it remains unclear whether there will be enough political impetus to close a deal by the end of the year.
 In a speech in mid-August, Mr. Lamy argued that, ''given what is already on offer on the negotiating table, and what remains to be done, my sense is that concluding this negotiation is both necessary and doable.''
 That analysis was disputed by France's finance minister, Christine Lagarde, on Thursday. ''The gap among the parties is too wide,'' she said during a speech to executives near Paris, according to Bloomberg News. ''For now, I don't see it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); EXPORT PROMOTION (67%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (75%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (71%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) SWITZERLAND (91%); FRANCE (90%); QATAR (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



5 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Overseas, a Rosier Picture for Magazines

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Optimists are hard to find in the magazine and newspaper businesses these days. Most print publishers worry that the Internet is taking over as the primary means of conveying information. 
 George Green, the chief executive of Hearst Magazines International, would argue that the doomsayers have not been overseas lately. Last year, earnings at his division, which sells foreign versions of Cosmopolitan, Esquire and other Hearst publications, were up 17 percent.
 Mr. Green's group already sells magazines in nearly 100 countries, and it keeps expanding. Last fall, it introduced its 58th international version of Cosmopolitan, this one in Denmark. This past spring, Esquire showed up in Indonesia, and Harper's Bazaar went into Dubai. Hearst Magazines International is about to introduce Town & Country to the Philippines and Japan and versions of Esquire and Harper's Bazaar to Romania. 
 Mr. Green discussed why magazines can still thrive outside the United States -- as long as publishers do not parachute in with quintessentially American attitudes and methods.
 Q:Is the magazine business really that different outside the United States?
 A: If you tried to do business outside like you do here, you'd fail. The economics are hugely different. The United States is the only place where the postal service gives incentives for mailing magazines. So here, about 90 percent of magazines are sold by subscription, only 10 percent on newsstands. Outside the United States, that's reversed. 
 And no one overseas expects a huge discount from the cover price when they do subscribe. The business is driven entirely by ad revenue here, but elsewhere it is driven by circulation as well as ads.
 Q:How does that affect the way you design magazines, or sell advertising in them?
 A: For one thing, we use much heavier paper. Since we don't mail many magazines, we don't have to worry about postal weight, and the heavier paper gives a higher-quality look on the newsstand. You hardly ever see newsstands in the United States anymore, but overseas you see them everywhere. 
 The concept of a rate base -- promising advertisers a certain level of readers -- doesn't exist in other countries. So you don't have to spend a lot of money on promoting your new magazine to lots of readers. It can take more than three years for a new magazine to break even in the United States. Overseas, you can make money with your second issue.
 Q:Are readers in other countries really interested in the same articles and photographs that appeal to Americans?
 A: Not necessarily, which is why New York is the only place where we employ Americans. When we go into another country, we partner up with a local publishing company, which interprets our magazine for the local culture. I personally meet every potential partner, and I go with my gut reaction. About 20 percent of the time I don't sign on with the one who seemed most promising on paper. 
 Usually, we set up a joint venture company with the local partner. It pays us a licensing fee of between 5 and 10 percent of revenues, and then we and our partner split what's left. 
 Q:So they simply translate the American magazines to the local language and idiom?
 A: It's rarely that easy. Local laws are different, for one thing. In Malaysia, the government reviews the content of all magazines, so you need partners who fully understand what you can and cannot get away with. The Chinese edition of Cosmo is also called Trends Lady. Trends is our partner in China, and the Chinese government will not allow a licenser to control content. 
 So in general, we make the American content available, but it's up to our partners whether to use it or not. At first they use lots of it, but over time it goes down to about 20 percent. After all, the women of Australia are not like the women of Korea, who are not like the women of France.
 Q:Global companies want to reach all of them, though. Do you offer package deals -- say, advertise in Cosmopolitan in five countries for the price of four?
 A: No, we rarely bundle. Media buyers tend to operate locally, with localized budgets. It's rare that someone in Korea is buying ad space in Latvia. 
 Q:What mistakes have you made?
 A: We misjudged how many magazines we could sell in Spain, and at first we printed too few. Our first partner in Czechoslovakia didn't pay the license fees, so we had to find a new one.
 In Turkey we weren't careful enough to separate the joint venture from the partner's company; our partner went bankrupt, and we lost our assets. 
 And we've been in India for 10 years and still haven't made much money. That's a country where advertising rates and cover prices are low for everybody. We won't leave, though. If you want to consider yourself a truly international publisher, India is a place you have to be. 
 The important thing is, we don't make the same mistakes twice. International publishing is an accumulated art, and you learn from everything you do. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GEORGE GREEN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); NEWSSTANDS (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); POSTAL SERVICE (65%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ROMANIA (79%); INDONESIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



6 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Save, Save. Don't Splurge on a Piggy Bank, a Tin Can Will Do.

BYLINE: By SHIRA BOSS. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
MOST people would describe the classic novel ''A Tree Grows in Brooklyn'' as a coming-of-age story. I think of it as a vivid personal finance book. 
 As the main character was growing up in Brooklyn 100 years ago, her family sometimes didn't have enough money to eat. Yet they had a tin can nailed to the floor of the closet, and they made a deposit whenever they had any money. Even when the girl and her brother earned a few cents from selling scrap metal, they dropped half of the coins into the can. When more dire times hit, the bank was raided. Then it was nailed down again. 
 Good grief. If that family could manage to save, then we can, too. But most of us don't.
 There is much advice from experts about the need to pay down our credit card debt, and most of us are well aware we should be saving money in retirement accounts. But what needs to be talked about more is the necessity, and almost magic, of simple savings. 
 Saving money is not the sexiest financial move, but it's probably the most important. So start squirreling. Even if it's the change from your pocket. Start incubating a nest egg, which is not just for retirement. A cash account may be for a flatter television set, a vacation, new clothes, a period of unemployment, a down payment on a house, car repairs or whatever treat you can dream up. 
 I know, times are tight and 7 out of 10 Americans report living paycheck to paycheck, meaning there never seems to be enough left over for savings. In 1985, Americans were saving $11 for every $100 they brought home; now the savings rate is around zero, and debt is at a record high. 
 The lack of savings is not a problem just for the working and middle classes. ''Even among the 'moneyed' population, there's not always an understanding of the mechanics and importance of saving,'' said Marc Minker, an accountant in Manhattan who is involved with the national ''Feed the Pig'' campaign, sponsored by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the Advertising Council, to encourage people 25 to 34 to save.
 A friend of mine who grew up in a family of modest means in rural upstate New York worked his way up to a six-figure salary in Manhattan but lived large and never set anything aside. At age 49, he has managed to buy a house in Westchester with his wife and is now a year into building up a six-month emergency fund.
 ''I can't believe I was so stupid,'' he said of his earlier years. ''I thought money would never run out, that I could spend whatever I wanted and run up all the debt I wanted and it wouldn't matter.''
 It is a widespread and harmful myth that one needs to make more money to save some of it. ''We've met people who can save on a salary of $30,000, and people who have not a penny in savings and a salary of over $300,000,'' said Manisha Thakor, co-author of ''On My Own Two Feet,'' a personal finance primer for women. ''Saving is about a mind-set and a commitment, not a level of salary.'' 
 When I was most stressed financially, I forced myself to put 5 percent of every check into an emergency account. It built up surprisingly quickly and ended up paying for surprise expenses that otherwise would have gone on a credit card. Now I've worked up to putting some cash from every paycheck into envelopes marked Goody Bag, which I dip into for luxuries like a nice teapot. That definitely makes earning money -- and spending it -- more fun. 
 ''The powerful thing is that saving is not about deprivation, saving is actually all about spending,'' Ms. Thakor said.
 In a survey this year by the Consumer Federation of America, 4 in 10 households reported having savings. More than half reported that they built the accounts by making regular automatic deposits from their checking accounts. Half saved from tax refunds, and a third contributed loose change.
 Ms. Thakor suggests an initial goal of $2,000 in a savings account, which, according to a survey of women in 2005 by the Consumer Federation, is the average amount of unexpected expenses in a year. That ''starter emergency fund,'' she says, is supposed to be used as needed and replenished. It's better to borrow from yourself than to rely on a credit card and feel as if you can never get ahead. Additional savings can be set aside for other short-term and midterm goals, assuming that you are also putting a percentage of your income toward retirement.
 Some of Mr. Minker's lower-income clients despair of not having enough to get by, and his advice to these clients, whom he advises without charge, is that developing the habit of saving is what's crucial, not the amount. ''When you start slow and keep at it, it's a snowball that'll get bigger and bigger,'' he said. 
 My husband and I started a loose-change fund about five years ago -- using a tin can for effect, then transferring the money periodically to a money market account. It has grown to $2,660. From the beginning, we have called it the Vineyard Fund. Before you laugh at that optimism, consider that if we kept our tin can going until retirement age, it would be worth over $100,000. (More, if we stopped using the quarters for laundry.) 
 The key is to reverse the habit of spending first and paying later, with interest. We need to get back to the old-fashioned way: saving the money, then spending it. That costs less, and causes less stress and anxiety, than using debt or going without.
 Play with online calculators to see the impact of saving money. And include the children. A common lament from adults in financial trouble is that they were never taught about money. 
 The Internet is full of free strategies and motivational stories from fellow savers at sites like www.betterbudgeting.com and www.americasaves.org (where you can register your savings goal). For hard-copy tips on how to wring extra expenses out of your budget, take a look at Mary M. Hunt's book ''Live Your Life for Half the Price'' or ''Pay It Down'' by Jean Chatzky.
 Christopher Sariti, a friend who lives in Hoboken, N.J., said he did not save anything, outside of his 401(k), for his first 20 years in the work force. ''We got paid every Friday,'' he said of his first job, at a grocery store. ''Friday night we went out, by Monday there was little left, and you scraped by until Friday again.'' He never changed the paycheck-to-paycheck routine until he wanted to buy an engagement ring and didn't want to put that on a credit card. 
 He saved up to buy the ring with cash. Then he and his fiancee, Kendra Crook, opened a joint savings account online to pay for their wedding. Now, after two years of marriage, they are using the same account to save for a down payment on a condominium. Better late than never, but my friend, now 41, says he is ''kicking myself every day for not starting sooner.''
 ''I tell everyone I know to save something, $10 a week, $100 a week, whatever you can do,'' he said. ''If I had put aside $20 a week when I started out, and not touched it, making that down payment would be a whole lot easier now.''
 Suppose he had squirreled away $20 a week in an account earning 5 percent interest (not counting Uncle Sam's cut). He would have had $35,300 by the time he proposed three years ago, and $44,200 by now. And that's without investing in the stock market, where he could have earned much more. I'll spare my friends that calculation, but let that inspire the rest of us to nurture our nest eggs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Instead of using credit, Kendra Crook's fiance saved for an engagement ring. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL HAWTHORNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (83%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); FAMILY (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); ACCOUNTING (60%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



7 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Tourists Returning, Greek Officials Say

BYLINE: By ANTHEE CARASSAVA

DATELINE: ATHENS, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
The barrage of brutal wildfires in Greece destroyed large swaths of property, killed at least 64 people and caused overall damage estimated at $1.6 billion, Greek finance officials say. 
 Adding to the financial blow, the fires hit hardest at the western Peloponnesian peninsula, a popular tourist destination. Tourism accounts for 20 percent of the country's gross domestic product and one in five jobs.
 But by midweek, with most fires out and the remaining ones seemingly under control, tourists began trickling in again, and no major resorts or tourist operations in the area had reported any cancellations, according to the tourism minister, Fanni Palli-Petralia. 
 Some, she said, had even more business than usual ''because of the large numbers of journalists who poured in this past week.'' 
 Tourism authorities have flooded international tour operators and agencies with e-mail messages assuring them that ''Greece remains a safe and beautiful destination.''
 ''We're convinced,'' Mrs. Petralia said, ''that we'll close with a successful year.''
 Among the stalwart tourists this week was a group of 45 Germans visiting the site of the birthplace of the Olympic Games, who were seen peering into the surrounding fields of singed pine and cypress trees, covering their nostrils with wet cloths or masks.
 The museum there, which houses masterpieces including marble statues of the Nike of Paionis and the Hermes of Praxiteles, had just reopened and Culture Ministry employees were ordered back to their posts.
 ''There were serious concerns at first,'' said Panayiotis Achtipis, manager of a travel company operating shore excursions and cruises to the western Peloponnesian peninsula. ''But now, it's business as usual.''
 The Foreign Ministry is also scrambling to allay travel concerns among Americans, British, Australians and Germans after their governments, at the height of the wildfires, posted warnings about travel to Greece. 
 ''Ironically,'' said a senior tourism official speaking on condition of anonymity, ''foreign tour operators were less concerned about the fires and more worried about statements by officials that the fires were an orchestrated attack of arson.''
 Most of Greece's tourism earnings come from popular holiday islands untouched by the fires, like Mykonos, Santorini, Rhodes and Crete. An estimated 1.7 million Russians and Americans spent their summer holidays in the islands this year, up 350 percent from last year, according to Tourism Ministry statistics.
 ''No one can deny the magnitude of destruction caused by these wildfires,'' Mrs. Petralia said. But, she added, no fires threatened Greece's ''strongest marketing points,'' the ''beautiful beaches and islands.''
 Still, local residents, economists and environmentalist fear that the region will suffer lasting economic damage.
 ''There will be several thousand people faced with the choice of staying in a burnt land or moving to the cities,'' Nikos Haralambides, Greenpeace's Greece director told The Associated Press.
 The main source of income in the burned area was olive oil production, he said, ''and new olive saplings need at least 15 years to produce a decent crop.''
 This week, with less than two weeks left before national elections, Greece's beleaguered center-right government announced an aid and relief effort, budgeting $410 million in immediate grants for fire victims.
 On Friday alone, thousands of victims line up outside state banks for hours to receive emergency payments of about $4,000 to those who lost property and about $13,500 to close relatives of anyone killed in a fire. Suggestions were already emerging that people were coming from outside the area to get the payments. 
 The government, which was widely criticized for being slow to manage the fires, stressed the urgency and enormity of the task ahead. 
 ''We put together a mini-Marshall plan,'' said Peter G. Doukas, the deputy finance minister, referring to the restructuring plan the United States devised after the Second World War to assist the restructuring of Europe. ''Both the scale of aid and speed with which it is reaching fire victims is unprecedented by European standards.''
 Among the 31 measures featured in the aid program are promises by the government to rebuild all homes destroyed, assistance in loan repayments and a reforestation program that promises to keep precious patches of the Peloponnesian peninsula untouched by developers, who are suspected of setting some of the peninsula's blazes.
 Mr. Doukas put the preliminary cost of the destruction at about 0.6 percent of the gross domestic product, or $1.6 billion. 
 ''It is our duty to restore what has been lost and make these regions stronger than they were before,'' Mr. Doukas said, picking up one of the calls at a help line center set up at the basement of the state building that houses his office.
 More than 40,000 calls inundated the center in its first hours of operation, forcing the state telephone company, OTE, to install faster lines.
 Greece has been suffering from drought, and three consecutive heat waves this summer sent temperatures over 100 degrees. More than 3,000 forest fires have been recorded since June. 
 Data from European Space Agency satellites show that Greece experienced more wildfire activity in August alone than other European countries have over the last decade.
 Up to 469,000 acres were destroyed between Friday and Tuesday, when many of the fires burned unchecked, according to the European Commission's Forest Fire Information System.
 In all, the agency said, 679,000 acres have burned since the start of the year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Olympia, Greece, banners reading ''Shame on You'' in several languages protest the government's handling of wildfires. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIMITRI MESSINIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREST FIRES (90%); FIRES (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); TOURISM (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); TOUR OPERATORS (77%); BEACHES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); CRUISES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ARSON (73%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); TRAVEL AGENTS (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); OLYMPICS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



8 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: No Shortage of Worries

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
THE demand for biofuels is pushing up food prices. Add to that water shortages, natural disasters and rising populations in the developing world and ''what you have is a recipe for disaster,'' John Vidal wrote in the British newspaper The Guardian this week (guardian.co.uk).
 The flow of money into the American Midwest to turn corn and other crops into fuel is benefiting rural economies there -- and it may be helping to reduce global warming -- but it is also ''helping to push up the price of bread in Manchester, tortillas in Mexico City and beer in Madrid,'' Mr. Vidal wrote. ''As a direct result of what is happening in places like Nebraska, Kansas, Indiana and Oklahoma, food aid for the poorest people in southern Africa, pork in China and beef in Britain are all more expensive.'' 
 The global population, meanwhile, is rising by 87 million people a year. India and China, which together have nearly 40 percent of the world's people, are pushing up their demand for increasingly scarce commodities by switching to a Westernized diet. That, in turn, is increasing demand for water, which is needed to produce the grain and meats that are replacing vegetables in the Asian diet. 
 ''Water tables are now falling in countries that contain over half the world's people,'' Lester Brown, president of the Worldwatch Institute, told Mr. Vidal. ''While numerous analysts and policy makers are concerned about a future of water shortages, few have connected the dots to see that a future of water shortages means a future of food shortages.''
 There is some dissent from all this dark prognostication. Some economists say food prices will stabilize, and technologists are counting on genetically modified crops and more efficient farming methods.
 Judging by Mr. Vidal's litany of facts and statistics, however, trends for now are going the other way. 
 ROOTKIT REDUXSony has apparently done it again. Late in 2005, a security researcher disclosed that Sony BMG, the company's music division, had installed a ''rootkit'' -- a program that hides itself in a computer's operating system to run processes without the user's knowledge -- in the copy-protection software in some of its CDs. Sony BMG went on to botch its response to the discovery, first saying rootkits weren't so bad, then offering a ''fix'' that proved to be a giant frustration for users. Finally, the company ordered a mass recall of the CDs, and it was hit with several lawsuits. 
 This week, the Finnish company F-Secure discovered another rootkit, which can leave computers vulnerable to viruses, in some of Sony's MicroVault line of storage drives that use fingerprint authentication (f-secure.com).
 Sony told InformationWeek that it was investigating and that the memory sticks in question were recently discontinued. ''No customers have reported problems to date,'' a spokesman said, adding that Sony is ''taking the issue very seriously.''
 F-Secure said the Micro Vault rootkit wasn't as problematic as the CD software, but that it still presented a security risk. 
 ''Sony can't seem to keep its hands off its customers' hard drives,'' wrote Andy Greenberg of Forbes.com.
 A MEASURE OF FAILURE The Hedge Fund Implode-O-Meter (hf-implode.com) offers information on funds that have already imploded, tracks funds that may be close to the edge and offers a forum for discussing an industry that, according to the site, operates on ''hubris, extreme leverage and other people's money.'' 
 DAN MITCHELL
 Complete links are at nytimes.com/business. E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX EBEN MEYER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOMASS (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (85%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); AGRICULTURE (76%); MEATS (73%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (72%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); CORN FARMING (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (65%); BIOMETRICS (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (60%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: F-SECURE CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLDWATCH INSTITUTE (54%)

TICKER: FSC1V (HEL) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (58%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (72%); MIDWEST USA (72%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); MEXICO (77%); AFRICA (71%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



9 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: When Bulls And Bears Act Unruly On a Seesaw

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Does it make sense for stock prices to plunge one day and soar the next, with little in the way of new information to explain either move?
 Maybe not, but it happened this week, just as it did earlier in August. It was the first time in more than four years that the American stock market experienced such wild swings, and could be a harbinger of a reversal of direction in either the stock market or the economy, or both.
 Or it could just show that changes in the financial system have left many investors confused about what is going on. 
 In the past, such wild swings have sometimes indicated that markets were turning in a new direction. In retrospect, there seem to be good reasons for the turnaround. But at the time, there were also plenty of investors who believed that the prevailing trend was sure to continue and jumped in to drive prices in the old direction.
 In September 1974, with the economy in a severe recession and the stock market in the worst bear market since the Depression, there was a string of sharp, contradictory moves. Share prices hit bottom in early October, and a strong recovery followed.
 In 2000, the bull market was going strong, led by the technology stocks that had soared and made many traders feel rich. The first big reversal came in January, with prices plunging one day and recovering the next. It happened again in April, and again in October. The Internet bubble was finally deflating, and a prolonged bear market was beginning.
 By 2002, investors were as depressed as they had been in a generation. The 2001 recession was over, but that was not clear. A series of summer reversals signaled that a bottom was near, and was followed by more reversals in October, November and the following March. The bull market had revived.
 But while such reversals can signal major market moves, they can also occur when markets are stirred by changes that leave many investors simply perplexed. The 1987 crash, which seemed at the time to warn of impending recession, now appears to have been caused by a new investment strategy involving stock index futures that led to major selling after the first decline. The strategy, called portfolio insurance, decimated portfolios, but it did not reflect what was going on in the economy. Aided by quick action on the part of the Federal Reserve, the next recession was still three years away.
 Similarly, reversals in 1997 and 1998 came amid an Asian credit crisis, a Russian default on debt and problems with a hedge fund, Long-Term Capital Management, whose strategies were not as brilliant as its founders had believed. But they did not presage an end to the 1990s bull market.
 This year's sharp moves have come as investors vacillated over how extensive the effects of the subprime mortgage problems will be. Those problems have led to a sharp contraction of credit markets and to difficulties for a number of hedge funds, but it is unclear if the crisis will also bring on a recession and end a bull market that has sent most stocks well above the highs they reached in 2000.
 To some traders, it is ridiculous to expect the entire economy to falter because of problems in the subprime mortgage market. That market is, as President Bush put it yesterday, ''modest in relation to the size of our economy,'' and the world economy remains strong. 
 Others are convinced that tighter credit standards will force American consumers to curtail spending, slowing the economy and damaging corporate profits. It is from such contradictory beliefs that the wild days of August sprang.

GRAPHIC: CHART: This week, the Standard & Poor's 500 fell more than 2 percent on one day, only to rise by a similar amount the next day. A similar rapid reversal took place earlier in the month. Rapid reversals often come at times when the market is in the process of changing its long-term direction, as happened near the market lows in 2003. But they can also occur when traders are dealing with changes in markets that have little to do with underlying economic trends, as happened in 1987. This chart shows the number of rapid reversals since World War II. Each box represents one rapid reversal. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); WORLD WAR II (59%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



10 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Anxious About Tomorrow

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
You know you've stepped into a different universe when you hear a major American labor leader saying matter-of-factly that employer-based health insurance and employer-based pensions are relics of a bygone industrial economy.
 Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, which has 1.9 million members and is the fastest-growing union in the country, is not your ordinary union leader. With Labor Day approaching, he was reflecting on some of the challenges facing workers in a post-20th-century globalized economy. 
 ''I just don't think that as a country we've conceptualized that this is not our father's or our grandfather's economy,'' Mr. Stern said in an interview. ''We're going through profound change and we have no plan.''
 The feeling that seems to override all others for workers is anxiety. American families, already saddled with enormous debt, are trying to make it in an environment in which employment is becoming increasingly contingent and subject to worldwide competition. Health insurance, unaffordable for millions, is a huge problem. And guaranteed pensions are going the way of typewriter ribbons and carbon paper.
 ''We're ending defined benefit pensions in front of our eyes,'' said Mr. Stern. ''I'd say today's retirement plan for young workers is: 'I'm going to work until I die.' ''
 The result of all of this -- along with such problems as the mortgage and housing crisis, and a domestic economy that is doing nothing to improve living standards for ordinary Americans -- is fear.
 ''Workers are incredibly, legitimately scared that the American dream, particularly the belief that their kids will do better, is ending,'' said Mr. Stern. He is trying to get across the idea that in a period of such profound change, the old templates, the traditional ideas and policies of even the most progressive thinkers and officeholders, will not be sufficient to meet the new challenges.
 ''We can't be the only country on earth that asks our employers to put the price of health care on its products when a lot of our competitors don't,'' he said. ''And job security? Even if you want to stay with your employer, as in the old economic model, we're seeing in many industries that your employer is not going to be around to stay with you.''
 A comprehensive new approach is needed, but what should that approach be? Franklin Roosevelt always hoped to inject a measure of economic security into the lives of ordinary Americans. But the New Deal was seven decades ago. Workers are insecure now for a host of different reasons and Mr. Stern wants the labor movement to be part of a vast cooperative effort to develop the solutions appropriate to today's environment.
 He told me, ''I'd like to say to the Democrats that we are as far today from the New Deal as the New Deal was from the Civil War.''
 He wants more people to pay attention to the big issues that affect not just union workers but all working families: How do you bring health care to all? What do you do about retirement security? How will the jobs of the 21st century be created?
 And what about schools, energy, global warming, the environment? 
 Mr. Stern tends to see the nation as a team and wants the team to pull together to develop a creative vision of what the U.S. should be about in the 21st century. A cornerstone of that vision, he said, should be adherence to the ''primary value'' of rewarding work.
 ''We're a team in the 21st-century period of rapid change and competition,'' he said. ''And right now, we don't have leadership, and we don't have a plan. At the same time, a group of people are enriching themselves far beyond anything that's reasonable.''
 What he would like to see, he said, is a large group of thoughtful people from various walks of American life -- business, labor, government, academia and so forth -- convened to begin the serious work of cooperatively developing a real-world vision of a society that is fairer, healthier, better educated, better prepared to compete globally, and more economically secure.
 ''I think you're already seeing the beginnings of odd formations of people who appreciate, issue by issue, that we have to do something different here,'' he said.
 The kind of effort Mr. Stern would like to see would logically be initiated at the highest levels of government, preferably the White House. But if that's not in the cards, someone else should take up the challenge. And there should be a sense of urgency about it.
 The fears of America's workers are well founded. ''There's something wrong with the system right now,'' said Mr. Stern, ''and we can't just say, 'Well, it's all going to work out.' It's not.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); US LABOR DAY (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



11 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 468 words

PERSON: Charles Vanik 

HEADLINE: Charles Vanik, 94; Helped Jews Leave the Soviet Union

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
CLEVELAND, Aug. 31 (AP) -- Former Representative Charles A. Vanik of Ohio, who was a co-sponsor of the Jackson-Vanik amendment, a measure intended to force the Soviet Union to allow more Jews to emigrate, died Wednesday at his home in Jupiter, Fla. He was 94. 
 His death was announced by Mark Talisman, his former chief of staff. 
 An often outspoken liberal Democratic congressman from Cleveland, Mr. Vanik served in Congress from 1955 to 1981. He held several other public offices, from Cleveland municipal judge to the Ohio Senate.
 In 1974, Mr. Vanik along with Senator Henry M. Jackson, Democrat of Washington, who died in 1983, sponsored an amendment to the Trade Act of 1974, which President Gerald R. Ford signed into law. The amendment effectively denies unconditional normal trade relations to certain countries that had nonmarket economies and that restricted emigration rights. 
 In response, the Soviet Union allowed more freedom of emigration, particularly to Jews, who had faced official prejudice.
 As a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Vanik tended to make Social Security and Medicare his causes.
 Emigration of Soviet Jews did increase in the years after the amendment passed, but slowed to a trickle in the 1980s and became a major source of friction between the United States and the Soviet Union.
 In 1988, five years after Mr. Jackson died, the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev urged the amendment to be scrapped, saying: ''Why should the dead hold onto the coattails of the living? I mean the Jackson-Vanik amendment. One of them is already physically dead. The other is politically dead.''
 The New York Times reported that Mr. Vanik countered: ''Lenin has been dead for a long time, and they still live under his guidance.'' But he added that the amendment could be waived if Moscow continued making progress on emigration. The first President Bush did waive the amendment in December 1990, a year before the Soviet Union collapsed.
 The Jackson-Vanik amendment is still on the books. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and other Russian officials have criticized Washington for failing to repeal it, saying the refusal to do so undermined trust between the two nations.
 This year, Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California and chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, called it a ''relic of the cold war'' and said it should be scrapped.
 Before his public career, Mr. Vanik was a lawyer. His father and grandfather had been butchers, and on flights to Washington Mr. Vanik would often carry along a package of sausage made in Cleveland.
 He met his future wife, Betty, when he was in the Navy and she was a Navy nurse. She survives him, along with a daughter, Phyllis, of Jupiter; a son, John, of Mayfield Heights, Ohio; and two grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles A. Vanik, in 1961 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); COLD WAR (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (76%); GRANDPARENTS (72%); JUDGES (70%); NAVIES (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%)

TOM LANTOS (58%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) OHIO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



12 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-8
 Joint Chiefs Brief Bush; He Attacks War Critics
 President Bush met with the nation's uniformed military leaders and then pointedly accused the war's critics of politicizing the debate over what to do next.A1 
 The Iraqi government called on all armed groups to join a cease-fire declared by Moktada al-Sadr, the Shiite cleric who leads Iraq's most notorious militia.A6 
 A Marine sergeant offered gruesome testimony against a former squad leader charged with killing 17 Iraqi civilians in Haditha.A6 
 Musharraf Said to Quit Army
 A close ally of President Pervez Musharraf said he would quit as army chief before elections.A3 Ex-Hostages Head Home
 Nineteen Korean aid workers left Afghanistan after nearly six weeks as Taliban captives. A8
 Poignant Service for Diana
 Prince Harry spoke on the anniversary of his mother's death.A4 Gazans Defy Hamas
 Defying warnings from Hamas, several thousand Gazans prayed outside the mosques in a Fatah-inspired protest. A8 
 False Claims Scandalize Korea
 South Korea has been shaken by a series of resume fraud scandals. Among the most shocking: a prominent monk who faked his university credentials.A3 
 NATIONALA9-12 
 Senator in Sex Sting Is Expected to Resign
 Senator Larry E. Craig, Republican of Idaho, plans to resign after Republican leaders put intense pressure on him to leave in the aftermath of an undercover sex sting, party officials said. A1 
 Airline Movies Draw Ire
 Because federal broadcast laws do not apply to in-flight entertainment, parental advocacy groups have begun lobbying for change. At least one organization has asked federal legislators to introduce laws curbing violence shown on overhead screens. A1 
 Fund-Raiser Surrenders
 Norman Hsu, a prominent Democratic donor who had raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for candidates, turned himself in to the authorities in California, where there was a 15-year-old warrant for his arrest in a fraud case. A11 
 Bush Spokesman Begins Exit
 Tony Snow, who served two years as the chief White House spokesman, plans to leave his post on Sept. 14. because of financial pressures. A11 Senator Won't Run in 2008
 Senator John Warner, a five-term Republican from Virginia and one of Congress's most influential voices on the war in Iraq, announced that he would not seek re-election in 2008. A11
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-5
 Unwelcome Scrutiny For Fire Commissioner
 After two firefighters died in a fire in the former Deutsche Bank building, trapped in a maze of demolition equipment and blocked stairwells, the commissioner of the New York City Fire Department finds himself in the harsh light of scrutiny. B1
 City Schools' Report Cards
 In an effort to hold educators more accountable for student performance, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will oversee the distribution of report cards for each of New York city's schools. Principals are already considering how to deal with a possible avalanche of queries and complaints from parents. B1
 BUSINESS DAYC1-8 
 Fed Says It's Ready to Act
 Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said that the central bank ''stands ready to take additional actions as needed'' to prevent the chaos in mortgage markets from derailing the broader economy. A1 
 Huge Income Disparities
 Top investment bank money managers earn such huge incomes that the average pay in investment banking is 10 times that of all private sector jobs, new government data shows. C1 
 Business DigestB2 
 EDITORIALA14-15
 Editorials: A nonpolitical memorial; living in fear for helping America; the slow pursuit of political wiseguys; democracy in Turkey. 
 Columns: Bob Herbert and Gail Collins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); TALIBAN (78%); LOBBYING (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FIRES (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ARRESTS (73%); HAMAS (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); SCANDALS (72%); RELIGION (71%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); ARREST WARRANTS (70%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (64%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (61%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (73%); LARRY CRAIG (58%); PRINCE HARRY (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (57%); JOHN WARNER (57%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



13 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Soothing Words and a Big Gain

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street closed out another erratic week with a big gain yesterday after investors took comments from President Bush and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, as reassuring signs that Wall Street would not be left to deal with problems in the mortgage and credit markets on its own.
 Investors balked early when comments from Mr. Bernanke did not indicate that a cut in the benchmark federal funds rate was imminent. But they moved past some of their initial disappointment and appeared to concentrate on comments that the Fed would step in if needed. 
 The major indexes fluctuated but held their gains after President Bush spoke about details of a plan to help borrowers facing trouble paying their mortgages.
 ''You've got all the speeches working for the market here,'' said Michael Church, portfolio manager at Church Capital Management in Philadelphia. ''What we've seen in the last few weeks is that Ben Bernanke and the Federal Reserve are paying attention to what's going on. They will help correct the credit markets. For now, we're in a trading range and we have to sort through this mess.''
 The Dow rose 119.01, or 0.90 percent, to 13,357.74. The Dow slipped 0.16 percent for the week; for the year the blue-chip index is up 7.2 percent despite the volatility of the last month.
 Broader stock indicators also rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 16.35, or 1.12 percent, to 1,473.99. For the week, the S.& P. fell 0.36 percent, leaving it with a 3.9 percent gain for the year.
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 31.06, or 1.21 percent, to 2,596.36. Bucking the trend of other major indexes, it gained 0.76 percent for the week and is up 7.5 percent for the year. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 9.75, or 1.25 percent, to 792.86.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 6/32, to 101 24/32. Its yield, which moves opposite to its price, rose to 4.53 percent, from 4.50 percent. The bond market closed early ahead of the holiday weekend, and will be closed Monday along with the stock markets.
 Since the stock market started tumbling in late July on fears that problems in mortgage and corporate lending would lead to a credit freeze and hurt the economy, the Fed has injected tens of billions of dollars into the banking system and lowered its discount rate, the charge on its loans to commercial banks. 
 But the Fed has not yet said it will lower the fed funds rate, and Wall Street's uncertainty over what the central bank will do next has kept the markets volatile. The Fed's next meeting is Sept. 18 and some investors had expected the central bank might cut rates before then.
 Economic news, as Mr. Bernanke indicated yesterday, appeared less relevant than normal as investors remained focused on upheaval in the credit market.
 The Commerce Department reported on personal income and spending and the core personal consumption expenditures deflator, one of the Fed's preferred gauges of inflation. Personal incomes and spending edged up by 0.5 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively, and year-over-year core personal consumption expenditures stayed within the Fed's comfort range at 1.9 percent.
 The Commerce Department also said orders to factories rose 3.7 percent in July, topping the expectations of a 3.3 percent increase. The rise, which came after three months of modest gains, followed an 11 percent jump in demand for transportation goods, including the biggest increase in orders for cars in more than four years.
 But despite relatively upbeat economic data, it is becoming increasingly clear that the Fed is going to have to lower interest rates to prevent the credit market turmoil from dragging down the economy, said Tom Higgins, chief economist at Payden & Rygel Investment Management in Los Angeles.
 Wall Street might harbor some concern about the start of September, typically a difficult month for the stock markets as investors return from vacations and reassess their holdings. The S.& P. 500 typically loses 0.7 percent during the month and 0.6 percent in Septembers that precede an election year, according to the Stock Trader's Almanac.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about seven to one yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to a light 2.69 billion shares compared with 2.59 billion shares traded Thursday. Trading in late August often is light.

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); BONDS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); TRENDS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); CORPORATE DEBT (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%)

COMPANY: CHURCH CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



14 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: CHIEF SAYS FED IS READY TO ACT ON CREDIT PINCH

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and JEREMY W. PETERS. 
Edmund L. Andrews reported from Jackson Hole, Wyo., and Jeremy W. Peters from New York.

DATELINE: JACKSON HOLE, Wyo., Aug. 31 

 BODY:
Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, declared on Friday that the central bank ''stands ready to take additional actions as needed'' to prevent the chaos in mortgage markets from derailing the broader economy.
 Mr. Bernanke avoided any specific promise to lower the central bank's benchmark federal funds rate at its next policy meeting on Sept. 18. But he acknowledged the dangers posed by the twin storms in housing and mortgage lending, adding that conditions are changing quickly enough that the Fed might act even before then if the next batch of economic data looks unfavorable.
 Investors have been counting on the Fed to push short-term borrowing costs lower since it took a partial step on Aug. 17 by reducing its discount rate, which applies to emergency short-term loans to banks.
 Shortly after Mr. Bernanke spoke here, President Bush announced a series of moves in Washington aimed at helping a number of Americans with credit problems avoid losing their homes because of the sharply rising cost of their adjustable-rate mortgages. 
 Mr. Bush, stepping into the troubled mortgage arena for the first time, did not go as far as Democratic proposals to help struggling homeowners. He warned that any overly ambitious effort could end up doing more harm than good. 
 ''It's not the government's job to bail out speculators,'' Mr. Bush said, ''or those who made the decision to buy a home they knew they could never afford.'' 
 Despite the disclaimers about bailouts, Wall Street welcomed the prospect of help from Washington. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 119 points, almost 1 percent, and the broader stock market indexes climbed by similar amounts.
 ''The body language was very clear on the way the Fed has decided to take action,'' said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Bank of America, who attended Mr. Bernanke's speech here. ''He made it clear the Fed is on top of the issue and very aware of the risks to the economy.''
 Encouraged by the release of positive economic data in the morning, the stock market rallied, with the Dow Jones industrial average jumping as much as 140 points. Once Mr. Bernanke's remarks were released at 10 a.m., investors gave up some of those gains, but the stock market closed solidly up. 
 The Dow added 119.01 points, to 13,357.74. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.12 percent, to close at 1,473.99; the Nasdaq composite closed at 2,596.36, up 1.21 percent. 
 Mr. Bernanke's long-awaited speech, his first since the nation's credit markets began to seize up several week ago, echoed previous assurances that the Fed would ''act as needed'' to prevent damage to the broader economy.
 But this time, he made it clear that the Fed would not wait for undeniable signs of economic distress before acting. And he drew a tighter link between the Fed's next move on interest rates and what happens to the housing market.
 ''Obviously, if current conditions persist in mortgage markets, the demand for homes could weaken further, with possible implications for the rest of the economy,'' Mr. Bernanke told listeners at the Federal Reserve's annual symposium here in the Grand Tetons.
 ''We are following these developments closely,'' he added.
 Mr. Bernanke walked a very tight line between trying to reassure financial markets and locking the Fed into a rescue effort that could prove either unwarranted or unwise over the longer term.
 ''It is not the responsibility of the Federal Reserve -- nor would it be appropriate -- to protect lenders and investors from the consequences of their financial decisions,'' he said. ''But developments in financial markets can have broad economic effects felt by many outside the markets, and the Federal Reserve must take those effects into account when determining policy.''
 Investors around the world had awaited his speech with an almost obsessive fixation in recent days, as what began as a panic in subprime mortgages for people with weak credit continued to freeze up lending on scores of other fronts, from jumbo mortgages to borrowers with good credit to a growing number of billion-dollar leveraged buyouts.
 In an added attempt to soothe investors, Mr. Bernanke also suggested that the central bank would focus less heavily than usual on incoming economic data, which have yet to signal a clear downturn.
 ''Economic data bearing on past months or quarters may be less useful than usual for our forecasts,'' he said. ''As a result, we will pay particularly close attention to the timeliest indicators, as well as information gleaned from our business and banking contacts around the country.''
 The Fed chairman's message seemed to be that policy makers might well cut rates even if the next round of economic data is fairly benign. 
 The stock market's early-morning rally was fed in part by new data from the Commerce Department that showed encouraging news on inflation and consumer spending. The monthly growth rate for personal spending doubled to 0.4 percent in July, while income grew 0.5 percent compared with 0.4 percent in June.
 At the same time, an annual measure of inflation closely watched by the Fed, known as the index for personal consumption expenditures, was unchanged at 1.9 percent in July. 
 Unemployment remains low at 4.6 percent, and analysts expect the government to report next week that the economy added about 100,000 jobs in August.
 But Fed officials and most analysts say that consumer spending was already slowing before the credit squeeze became acute recently and is likely to be further dented by the increased difficulty and expense of obtaining credit.
 Mr. Bernanke spoke little about concerns over volatility in the stock market and only fleetingly about the increasing difficulties that companies have had financing leveraged buyouts and corporate takeovers.
 But he acknowledged that the turmoil in mortgage markets could damage the fundamental economy. 
 ''Global financial losses have far exceeded even the most pessimistic projections of credit losses on those loans,'' Mr. Bernanke remarked at one point, referring to the original issue of subprime mortgages.
 John H. Makin, a senior economist at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, said Mr. Bernanke's message included ''a bit of tough love'' but made the broader point that the central bank has a keen awareness of events in financial markets and will know what to do if a further implosion becomes likely.
 ''The message was, I know as much about the financial markets as you do,'' Mr. Makin said. ''I think he did himself a lot of good with this speech.''
 A few economists remained skeptical about the certainty of a rate cut, noting that some Fed officials are not yet persuaded.
 Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist for IdeaGlobal, said that Mr. Bernanke would prefer to reduce the limited discount rate rather than cut rates more broadly.
 But Brian Bethune, an economist with Global Insight, said the speech suggested that the Fed was ''poised to move quickly.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



15 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Bush Plans a Limited Intervention on Mortgages

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
Democrats praised President Bush's proposals to help low-income homeowners on Friday but indicated they would continue to press measures opposed by the administration to expand the federal role in housing, making it likely that the issue will set off partisan battles this year and next.
 Mr. Bush, in formally announcing administration proposals that had been outlined the day before for a handful of news organizations, said the measures were intended to help families keep their homes through a mixture of actions, legislation and persuasion. But he said the administration would not bail out ''speculators'' in the housing industry. 
 ''The government has got a role to play, but it is limited,'' Mr. Bush said. ''A federal bailout of lenders would only encourage a recurrence of the problem. It's not the government's job to bail out speculators, or those who made the decision to buy a home they knew they could never afford.''
 Administration officials said that Mr. Bush's statement reflected the president's determination to oppose Democratic proposals for the federal government to help set up trust funds or use Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored housing companies, to rescue families in danger of losing their homes.
 The administration initiatives formally announced Friday included steps to make it easier for low-income homeowners to get federal mortgage insurance and plans for federal ''jawboning'' of private mortgage lenders to persuade them not to foreclose on homeowners without giving the borrowers a chance to renegotiate payments.
 Several of the administration's proposals were endorsements of existing Democratic measures, including a proposal to reduce taxes for homeowners whose debt is forgiven. Ordinarily, the amount of a loan that is forgiven is taxed as income. A chorus of prominent Democrats who have called for more federal action welcomed Mr. Bush's initiative, some of them saying that it represented the first sign that the administration was willing to engage in a bipartisan approach on a major budget or economic issue.
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said Mr. Bush and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, had adopted a more pragmatic approach on housing. In a speech in Wyoming on Friday, Mr. Bernanke said the Fed would take a more aggressive approach on the regulation of mortgages to discourage predatory practices.
 ''I think it's a major step by them,'' Mr. Frank said. ''They are basically acknowledging that they have been insufficiently aware of the need for more of a regulatory and institutional response to this situation.''
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, went further, saying that Mr. Bush sounded a little bit like a Democrat. ''The best point of all here is that the president has gotten out of his ideological straitjacket,'' the senator said.
 But Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, said Mr. Bush still needed to ''get serious about this problem'' and go further.
 Democrats say the plight of the estimated two million homeowners who face higher costs because payments on their adjustable-rate mortgages are expected to rise has become a potent political issue. They intend to keep it an issue as the 2008 election heats up, just as they have continued to assail the administration's response to Hurricane Katrina, even two years after the storm.
 But the administration says that it is one thing to help people caught between falling home prices and rising interest rates, and another to bail out speculators who find themselves unable to make a quick profit.
 An administration official who asked not to be identified said there would be no single solution for the problems facing lenders and borrowers. 
 This official estimated that of the two million mortgage holders facing new interest rates, 500,000 are at risk of foreclosure because of missed payments. 
 The administration's announcement Friday will affect only 80,000 homeowners through actions that it can take through the Federal Housing Administration, without Congressional participation. How many would be helped by future legislation was not clear to administration officials or others.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush, preceding Alphonso Jackson of Housing and Urban Development and Henry Paulson of the Treasury. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1)
 President Bush, with Alphonso Jackson, left, and Henry Paulson, proposes a federal response to the squeeze. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (66%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); HENRY PAULSON (73%); ALPHONSO JACKSON (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2007



16 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Once Ravaged by War, Now Vacation Spots

BYLINE: By KAREN ANGEL

 BODY:
Countries once torn by civil war are seeking to revive tourism, hoping to replace images of violence with those of hospitality and adventure travel. 
 The latest example is Rwanda, most closely identified in the minds of many Americans with the genocide that swept the country in 1994. The country's main attraction is still the mountain gorillas popularized in ''Gorillas in the Mist,'' the 1988 movie about the primatologist Dian Fossey. But now, aided by a newfound stability under Rwanda's first democratically elected president, the country's government, business leaders and entrepreneurs are trying to convey that Rwanda has more than primates to offer tourists.
 A chief attraction is Lake Kivu, one of Africa's largest and most striking lakes, surrounded by mountains and volcanoes. In February, Serena Hotels, which is based in Nairobi, Kenya, and owns 19 hotels in Africa, entered Rwanda for the first time, acquiring the Lake Kivu Serena Hotel and another in Kigali, now called the Kigali Serena Hotel.
 The company, a division of the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development, an international development company, plans $9.5 million worth of upgrades, including a high-end spa at the Lake Kivu Serena and 50 more rooms at the Kigali Serena. The company also plans to acquire more hotels in Rwanda, the company's managing director, Mahmud Jan Mohamed, said. 
 ''For us, there's a lot of potential,'' said Dixon Ondieki, a Kenyan who is general manager of Lake Kivu Serena. ''The government is doing a huge marketing effort. It's one of the safest countries in Africa. You can leave your gold earrings here,'' he added, pointing to a table in the hotel's lobby, ''and they'll still be here. And of course, the culture -- it's the best. Each person speaks four or five languages.''
 In large part, Rwanda is seeking to copy the success of Vietnam. The country is perceived as a safe, tourist-friendly destination, and services, including tourism, now make up about 40 percent of its gross domestic product. South Korea, Cambodia and Laos -- other Asian countries ravaged by war several decades ago --have also become popular among tourists and serious about promoting their offerings. At the end of July, Laos played host to an ecotourism conference for countries in the Mekong region.
 Some countries whose names are synonymous with more recent civil wars -- like Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Northern Ireland -- are giving tourism a big push, with mixed results.
 ''Tourism has developed into the key sector of the economy,'' said Arna Ugljen, a spokeswoman for the Tourism Association of Bosnia and Herzegovina. ''Its development has an extremely positive effect on the national economy and society on the whole, particularly in terms of the creation of new jobs.''
 Since the republic's three-year civil war ended in 1995, Bosnia and Herzegovina has doubled the number of tourists visiting to about 500,000 yearly, largely through presentations at trade shows, organizing trips for foreign journalists and creating marketing materials. ''Enjoy Life in Bosnia and Herzegovina,'' a whimsical promotional film that the tourism association produced last year, presents the republic as a vacationer's paradise.
 Still, the reality is somewhat different, said David Candler, 46, a New York journalist who visited Bosnia and Herzegovina for the first time in June with his girlfriend, a Bosnian refugee. ''The infrastructure of that country is still fairly primitive and struggling to get back on its feet after the war,'' Mr. Candler said. 
 ''Sarajevo has improved beyond almost all recognition from what it was at the end of the war, but they've still got problems with reconciliation between the ethnic groups. They now consider themselves almost forgotten by the West. They need investment, but nothing is moving.''
 Reconciliation in Northern Ireland is even more recent -- and shaky. It is too soon to say what the effect the new coalition government that took office in May will have on tourism. Since 2005, the number of tourists has held steady at about 1.7 million, 1.3 million of them from Britain -- even though Continental Airlines started the first direct daily service from New York to Belfast and the government's tourism agency, Tourism Ireland, is waging an aggressive marketing campaign.
 Inadequate investment and mismanagement by the former government has kept Northern Ireland from reaching its tourism potential, according to the Northern Ireland Tourist Industry Confederation. The trade group cites the relatively small number of visitors from Europe -- 209,000 in 2006, not significantly more than the 145,000 from North America -- and says they spend less money in the North than in any other area of Ireland.
 In contrast, Rwanda has taken some bold steps to encourage tourism from neighboring countries and enhance trade and economic opportunity. On July 1, Rwanda joined the East African Community, a bloc that includes Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda; much like the European Union, the group plans to introduce a single currency and relax border controls. Serena Hotels cited Rwanda's participation in the bloc as a factor in its decision to enter the country.
 Rwanda's president, Paul Kagame, was also a factor. Mr. Kagame was elected to a seven-year term by 95 percent of the vote in the country's first contested multiparty elections in 2003. Before that, there was always just one candidate. His economic and social reforms have started to take root, reducing corruption and improving public safety.
 That has made the country more attractive to investors. Its new Investment and Export Promotion Agency registered projects worth $245 million last year, compared with just $12.6 million in 2000, said Clare Akamanzi, the agency's deputy director general for investment promotion. Foreign investment rose to $120 million from $2.3 million in the period.
 Without a doubt, Rwanda's tourism industry has plenty of kinks to iron out, like the dead cow no one seemed in a hurry to remove at the water's edge a short distance from the Lake Kivu Serena Hotel. There are also few tourist-friendly hotels and restaurants and no Internet service outside the handful of town centers and resorts.
 In 2006, 37,000 tourists visited Rwanda, bringing in $35 million, up from fewer than 2,000 in 2000, said Rosette Chantal Rugamba, the director general of the Office of Tourism and National Parks, a cabinet post she filled in 2003. Last year, more than a third of the tourists were from the United States, which sends more tourists to Rwanda than any other country.
 ''There was no marketing,'' Ms. Rugamba said about the way the office operated in the past. In contrast, she and her staff members now attend several major trade shows a year to promote Rwanda as a site for conferences and they even took first place for their booth at the ITB tourism trade fair in Berlin last year. An international H.I.V./AIDS conference held in Kigali in June drew 2,000 participants, 1,500 of them from outside the country. The tourism office also advertises in travel magazines and cultivates tour operators and members of the media.
 Another of her main initiatives reserves a portion of tourism proceeds for local villagers, giving them tangible incentives to stop poaching wildlife, cutting trees and drawing water from the national parks. Five percent of tourism revenue goes to community projects, like the construction of water tanks, the cultivation of bamboo and the creation of handicraft and beekeeping programs so that villagers can sell their wares to tourists. Tourism proceeds are also used to build schools, community centers and clinics. 
 Consequently, poaching is largely a thing of the past; no gorillas have been killed by poachers since 2003, and the mountain gorilla population in Rwanda, Congo and Uganda has grown by 17 percent, to about 720, since the last census in 1989. ''One of the first mandates of the existing government was, 'Do not touch the gorillas,' '' Ms. Rugamba said.
 The gorillas are, after all, Rwanda's most precious natural resource. Safari outfits have sprung up to take people from Kigali to Volcanoes National Park, in the country's far northwest region, along the borders of Uganda and Congo, where the gorillas live.
 But Volcanoes is not the only attraction. Two other national parks, Nyungwe and Akagera, illustrate Rwanda's varied landscape. Nyungwe, in the southwest, encompasses a dense rain forest that is home to chimpanzees, colobus monkeys and a 70-foot waterfall.
 Tourists are starting to take it all in. ''Before we had a high and low season,'' said Alphonse Mwumuaneza, a receptionist at Volcanoes National Park. ''Now we're always busy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Natural beauty, like the stone islands in Halong Bay, help Vietnam's tourist industry thrive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); PRIMATES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LAKES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ECOTOURISM (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ZOOLOGY (71%); MAMMALOGY (71%); JOB CREATION (67%); LOBBYING (55%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

COMPANY: SERENA HOTELS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (79%) RWANDA (94%); KENYA (93%); AFRICA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); VIET NAM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (90%); CAMBODIA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009



17 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK OBSERVED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Dodging Potholes Along Memory Lane

BYLINE: By PETER MEHLMAN. 
Peter Mehlman, a former executive producer of ''Seinfeld,'' is a television and film writer.

 BODY:
ON trips back to New York, I visit a street sign outside my old apartment on East 63rd Street near First Avenue. ''Unnecessary Noise Prohibited.'' It's my sign, my permanent (whatever that means) contribution (whatever that means) to the city.
 Ex-New Yorkers invest lots of emotion in inanimate objects, so I never feel overly demented staring at a sign no one else notices. I once met a man who on business trips to the city makes a detour to a hydrant near Carl Schurz Park, a spot where a dancer once said she couldn't live without him. He lives in Santa Fe now, and last he heard, she's in commodities. 
 When you live in New York, it's hard enough claiming any chunk of the city as your own, but when you're part of the diaspora, you are really lost. You're among (it must be) thousands of people walking around who once lived here but for some reason -- love, ambition, allergies -- moved. And now, on your couple of trips back per year, you're in this nether-demographic. Not quite tourist, not quite resident. Your experience as a New Yorker, adjusted for inflation, has a street value of nothing.
 I bolted 18 years ago, and when I come back for a visit, the city is full of strangers who act as if the good old days are just beginning. Every time I come to town and take one of my strolls down repressed memory lane, my old landmarks not only offer little sense memory of my life in New York, they make me feel more detached.
 Still, I try to fit in: opting for a hotel on a neighborhoody street on upper Broadway (the room edges out my old apartment for square footage), taking subways (embarrassingly slow with a MetroCard), except when I don't (barking out unsure routes to cab drivers). The big thrill is being mistaken for a resident by tourists asking directions. 
 ''Do you know where there's a restaurant called Al Dente?''
 ''No idea.''
 I shrug and walk off. Al Dente. As if there's a restaurant in Rome called Undercooked. 
 The sad thing is, the inhabitants of the diaspora are even lower on the totem pole than tourists. At least tourists are wooed and/or accommodated and/or targeted. But no one invests in ex-New Yorkers. No one tries to make you feel as if you still belong. No one opens a restaurant aimed at people who lived in town during the '80s: A pasta-loaded joint with a smoking section, menus printed on junk bonds, waitresses in leg-warmers and photos of Bernhard Goetz on the wall. 
 No one runs a tour bus showing you around your old life: 
 ''This is where your office was when you worked at ABC Sports. It's now the headquarters of The Financial Times. And ABC Sports is now folded into ESPN, and your boss died 13 years ago.'' 
 ''This soon-to-be-new wing of Sloan-Kettering is on the site of the movie theater where you and your ex-girlfriend, who also happens to live in Los Angeles now with her husband and three kids, saw 'Hannah and Her Sisters' twice on the day it opened, Feb. 7, 1986.'' 
 ''This is where you found a $20 bill as you got out of the subway just before having breakfast at Windows on the World.''
 No, you're left to your own jangled memories. I walk around New York so full of retrospect, I feel as if I'm looking back on things that never happened. 
 The truly weird thing is, I invariably wind up spending a day with another ex-New Yorker who happens to be in town, someone I probably had lunch with a week earlier in Santa Monica. There is an ease in knocking around with someone in the same fogged-in boat. We can safely laugh at how out of it we are while grasping at personal histories.
 ON a trip last month, I met up with a friend (who lives one ZIP code over from me in Los Angeles) outside Time & Life (''You know, Sixth and 50-whatever''). As it was summer, we didn't even have the benefit of looking more tanned and healthy than everyone else.
 Walking east toward Madison Avenue, I flipped back to 1983 and recounted walking past the Hotel Elysee not two minutes after hearing that Tennessee Williams just died there. My friend remembered that day as if it were -- well, maybe the day before yesterday: ''Are you sure it was the Elysee and not the Warwick?'' 
 I was sure. He wasn't. It became such a point of ex-New Yorker pride, we considered going to the Elysee to ask. Surely so notable a death would be a big selling point. But instead of making a potentially touristy inquiry, we retreated back to our Hollywood selves, guessing that, if Williams were alive and living in L.A., Paramount would have him writing ''Suddenly Last Samurai.''
 We laughed about it the way New Yorkers do. During lunch, I almost mentioned to him how, on return flights, when the pilot says we'll be landing at LAX in 20 minutes, I always smile. Another trip back to New York. Over. 
 You must be wondering about that street sign. When I lived in New York, my apartment was on the ground floor, and the honking cars piling into the city from the Queensboro Bridge and converging into other cars trying to get out of the city made so much noise that friends would ask me why I was calling them from a phone booth. So in 1988, I wrote a letter of complaint to the mayor. 
 In the fall of 1989, I got a letter saying that the city would be putting up a sign on my street to discourage honking. The letter was forwarded to my new address in Venice, Calif., from my post office on 70th Street. That post office is still there, but my old ZIP code had changed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ILLUSTRATION BY JOHN CAYEA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (88%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



18 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2247 words

HEADLINE: Reeling In the College-Bound

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Newport, R.I.
 ON a sunny June morning, Daniel M. Meyers stands at the helm of the gleaming, 60-foot racing yacht he bought several years ago with part of the fortune he had earned as a pioneer in the private student loan industry.
 Heading out to sea, he joshes with his 16 crew members as they prepare for the start of a regatta. Mr. Meyers's love of finance is reflected in the name of his boat: Numbers. He also has a chase boat called Fractions and a dinghy called Decimals. ''I know, it sounds a little corny,'' he says.
 Corny, absolutely. But his knack for numbers allowed Mr. Meyers to unearth riches by marketing loans to college students who needed financial assistance after they had exhausted less expensive options offered through federally subsidized loan programs. 
 Mr. Meyers's student-lending niche has exploded into something of the norm as the cost of a college education has skyrocketed. And the company he helped to found 16 years ago, First Marblehead, is now one of the biggest in a $20 billion industry that occupies one of the most lucrative segments of consumer lending. 
 But such growth -- as well as the fact that debt levels for newly minted graduates have more than doubled over the last decade -- has drawn the scrutiny of Congress and regulators. Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York State attorney general, has helped expose financial ties between some lenders and colleges -- including kickbacks to financial aid officers -- that put their own interests ahead of those of students. (First Marblehead was not one of the companies implicated.)
 The student loan industry could be in for more jolts. Policy makers and regulators say that there are dangerous parallels between the private student loan and subprime mortgage markets. In both, there have been phenomenal profits, aggressive marketing and, until the recent credit market turmoil, a healthy appetite from Wall Street investors. 
 And, as was seen in the subprime market, many student loans that were made in the last couple of years are resetting at much higher rates. 
 Benjamin M. Lawsky, who is leading the state attorney general's investigation of student loans, says that certain practices in the business give rise to many questions. ''Are lenders making responsible loans?'' he asks. ''Or are they just saddling people with debt they will not be able to repay?''
 In the last few weeks, Mr. Cuomo's office has started a broader inquiry into the industry's marketing tactics, according to people close to the matter who did not want to be identified because they are not authorized to speak about a continuing investigation. These people say that First Marblehead, the company that Mr. Meyers helped found, is one of more than a dozen being examined, and that an inquiry into the incentives used by packagers of private student loans is coming next.
 In a statement, First Marblehead confirmed that it had received a subpoena related to its role in the student lending industry. ''We plan to cooperate fully with the attorney general's information requests,'' the company said.
 While Mr. Meyers said he was unaware of any specific investigation, he defended First Marblehead's practices, including the expanding trade in so-called direct-to-consumer, or D.T.C., loans that are made over the Internet. ''Any implication that the company has not stuck to its mission of access and affordability is wrong and unfair,'' he says. ''The people who choose the D.T.C. route make that choice. It is not foisted upon them.''
 A spokeswoman for First Marblehead, Janice Walker, said the company urges students to access federal aid first.
 Industry analysts say that students who seek private funding from a mail or Internet offer -- the very business that Mr. Meyers helped start through First Marblehead -- can wind up paying unnecessarily high rates and fees. While decades of deregulation have allowed lenders to offer students and homeowners more loans through a broadening array of financial products, those same forces have also curtailed government supervision of possibly abusive practices in the lending business, critics say.
 For his part, Mr. Meyers, who worked his way through college, says the industry helps far more people than it harms. Without access to loans, he contends, many students would be forced to drop out or even not to enroll. ''There have been populations of students who have been overleveraged for 40 years,'' he says. ''The bigger problem is that we have students who have been underleveraged.''
 Others, however, say they are concerned about the rise in student debt and the fact that college-bound applicants may not be aware that there are options other than relatively high-priced private loans. Even colleges themselves, analysts say, may have no idea how much debt students are taking on. 
 ''We find it very alarming,'' says Stephen Burd, a senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, a policy group that has been critical of the industry's practices. ''Colleges may not be aware the students are taking out the loans, so there is nobody giving any guidance.''
 THE attorney general's office is examining First Marblehead's marketing practices going back six years, when Mr. Meyers was still running the company, according to people close to the investigation. The regulators also asked the company to hand over documents related to his departure in 2005. That year, Mr. Meyers resigned as chairman and chief executive after the First Marblehead board accused him of giving gifts worth more than $32,000 to a female student loan executive at Bank of America, one of the company's two biggest clients. Mr. Meyers and Bank of America declined to comment. But several people close to Mr. Meyers say that he was simply being generous to a longtime friend, and they point out that he bought the gifts with his own money. 
 These days, Mr. Meyers, 44, says he splits most of his time between ''losing golf balls and losing sailboat races.'' He also oversees a program to help poor students attend college. 
 And he is building a new home here, on a 45-acre lot with breathtaking ocean views. It is less than 100 miles from Mr. Meyers's childhood home in Marblehead, Mass., but it is a world away. 
 His father died when Mr. Meyers was 10. And without scholarship money, his mother struggled to put four children through college. Mr. Meyers worked several full-time jobs to help cover the $7,500 tuition as an economics major at Brandeis -- giving him firsthand appreciation of the benefits a private loan could have provided. 
 Mr. Meyers, who described himself as a ''terrible'' student, landed a job the summer before college in the mailroom of a stock brokerage firm in Boston. After graduating in 1984, he became an options and arbitrage trader in New York. 
 While working on a project, he met Stephen E. Anbinder, who had previously led the bond trading group of Dillon Read & Company. Both Mr. Meyers, then in his mid-20s, and Mr. Anbinder, then in his late 40s, were fascinated with asset-backed securities. 
 These new investments had taken Wall Street by storm. Bankers pooled together loans for homes and automobiles, and then sold slices to investors, based on varying levels of risk. Their hunch was that this same brand of high finance could be applied to higher education. 
 Record numbers of students were enrolling in college. Tuition costs were rising much faster than inflation and median household incomes. Federal and state governments, meanwhile, were cutting back on financial aid. Those factors helped to create an ever-widening financing gap, and Mr. Meyers saw an opportunity.
 ''Peoplewere ignoring the numbers,'' Mr. Meyers said. There was a secondary market for credit cards, one for home loans, and even one for federal guaranteed loans. ''We couldn't really figure out,'' he said, ''why there wasn't a very developed marketplace'' for private capital in higher education. 
 Federal loans, which carried generous subsidies protecting lenders against default, as well as a profit guarantee courtesy of Congress, would almost always be a student's least expensive source of financial aid. But Mr. Meyers said he believed that private loans, if structured correctly, could be a much cheaper alternative to credit cards and consumer loans. He said he had envisioned offering interest rates of 5 to 7 percent (though he might charge more, depending on creditworthiness).
 In 1991, Mr. Meyers and Mr. Anbinder set up First Marblehead in a one-bedroom condo in Mr. Meyers's hometown. The loans were aimed at students who might not qualify for traditional loans because they had a shaky or nonexistent credit history and were unable to have a parent co-sign. 
 Rather than lending its own money, First Marblehead acted as an intermediary between banks and colleges. It orchestrated everything from the price and terms of loans to market research and customer service support. The bank and, to some extent, the colleges, originated the loan and agreed to share the risk if students defaulted. Then, First Marblehead bundled the loans and sold them to investors.
 Part of the appeal for colleges, say former executives, was that First Marblehead allowed these private loans to carry the brand name of the college, not the lender. This, proponents said, could be appropriate because colleges wanted students to know they were subsidizing the loans. 
 But critics said the practice could be deceptive: the average student had no reason to know that First Marblehead, and not the college, was orchestrating the process or that there might be other less expensive options that didn't carry the school colors. 
 Mr. Meyers also found that banks were interested in marketing loans directly to students. First Marblehead provided the tools, and business boomed. 
 In October 2003, Mr. Meyers took his company public. With turbocharged earnings and revenue growth, First Marblehead's stock rose 251 percent by the end of 2004. The company opened a new headquarters in a landmark Boston building, Prudential Tower, and had a work force of nearly 1,000. He forged partnerships with nonlenders like AAA of Southern New England and the College Board, which administers the SAT. Direct marketing firms also got into the act, moving aggressively onto the Internet.
 By early 2005, First Marblehead was online, too. Using the Astrive brand name and a Web site, it offered several private loan options. Today, most late-night viewers of MTV are likely to be familiar with Astrive, and direct-to-consumer lending now represents about 77 percent of First Marblehead's loan volume. 
 By the time he resigned two years ago, Mr. Meyers had become wealthy. Between 2003 and January 2006, he cashed in more than $86.4 million in stock, according to Equilar, a research firm. He still holds $188 million in First Marblehead stock.
 These days, however, his company's prospects are unclear. Its stock is now at $33.49, versus a high of $57.56 in early January. Competition has intensified as Sallie Mae, which had long focused on the federal loan market, has moved into private loans. 
 And, of course, there are Mr. Cuomo and Congress to worry about. Many private student loans, just like home mortgages, carry adjustable rates and are resetting to higher levels. 
 The costs of the loans that Mr. Meyers once had in mind, with interest rates of 5 to 7 percent, have since surged -- something he says is the marketplace reality. Today, the average rate in the First Marblehead pool is nearly 11 percent. Interest rates on federal loans, by contrast, are capped at 6.8 percent. 
 AND unlike credit card and other unsecured debt, private student loans cannot be wiped away in bankruptcy. Educators are also concerned that student borrowers are choosing private loans before borrowing the maximum from the government. Consumer advocates say that is because getting a private loan is much easier and faster, especially as private lenders move online.
 In fact, one in five student borrowers passes up a less expensive federal student loan, and half do not even bother to file the paperwork necessary to qualify for federal, state and institutional aid, according to a recent study by the American Council on Education, a lobbying group for colleges. That finding is even more surprising, the study noted, because many private borrowers are middle- and upper-income students who have the best access to information. 
 The direct-to-consumer channel, which Mr. Meyers helped to create, may be the most expensive option for students. 
 ''A private loan can cost a borrower 2 to 3 percent more if they acquire that loan through the direct-to-consumer channel compared to acquiring that loan through the financial aid office, and borrowers would in most cases pay higher upfront fees,'' said Matthew J. Snowling, an analyst at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey. ''From a lender's standpoint, the profits are close to double over the life of the loan.''
 In spite of several high-profile cases of abuse, Mr. Snowling said, the data suggest that ''most colleges have used their buying power to drive down the cost of a loan for a student -- you, as the individual, can't do that.''
 While Mr. Meyers says the industry can do more to educate students about financial options, he says they also need to educate themselves. ''If a student can go out and get a subsidized federal loan and it is lower cost,'' he said, ''they should do that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel M. Meyers, a co-founder of First Marblehead, was a pioneer in the private student loan industry. He resigned as chief executive in 2005 and spends a lot of time racing his yacht. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN T. CONATY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: (Students Pay. Who Profits?) To fill the gap between rising tuition and limited federal loan options, college students are increasingly turning to private loans, packaged by companies like First Marblehead. When a student takes out a $10,000 private loan with an 11 percent interest rate, many parties profit over the life of the loan. (Sources: The College Board
 Matt Snowling, Friedman, Billings, Ramsey)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); BOAT RACING (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); COLLEGE STUDENTS MARKET (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (64%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (62%)

COMPANY: FIRST MARBLEHEAD CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (59%)

TICKER: FMD (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (55%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (55%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (90%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



19 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: When Risk Is Home-Grown, Is It Time to Look Abroad?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to their investments, many Americans associate the word ''foreign'' with high risk. Advisers routinely recommend that foreign holdings amount to no more than 10 or 20 percent of a stock portfolio. Otherwise, the theory goes, investors risk heavy losses in the event of a foreign crisis, like the Asian financial upheaval of the 1990s.
 But the latest round of world financial problems started at home, in the United States, as a result of the subprime mortgage crisis. This time, the United States has exported volatility to the rest of the world. At least that's the argument of some financial experts, who say that individual investors should not necessarily look at the United States as a haven. Instead, they say that investors should hold a substantial percentage of their portfolios in non-American companies, through mutual funds or exchange-traded funds.
 ''If the recent volatility in the United States is what scares you into doing the right thing, great,'' says Uri Landesman, head of global growth and international at ING Americas, a subsidiary of the Dutch bank. ''But it's what you should have been doing all along.'' 
 Mr. Landesman, who is based in New York and oversees about $4.3 billion in investments, is keen on investing in Britain, but not Continental Europe or Japan. And he is enthusiastic about technology companies in Taiwan, where he has invested 5 to 6 percent of the portfolio he oversees. He urges caution in investing in places like Thailand or Turkey, which have been facing possible political crises. Mr. Landesman contends that individual investors should have 40 to 50 percent of their stock portfolios in international investments. ''Buy a fund that owns non-U.S. stocks that does its own allocation,'' he says. ''You can also buy an E.T.F. in a particular country or a fund in a particular country.'' 
 He says he does not believe that individuals should try to buy foreign equities by themselves. ''Most people do not want to watch a screen all day,'' he says.
 Vanguard, the mutual fund group, says that only about 11 percent of the typical 401(k) retirement plan is invested in international equities. Ellen Rinaldi, principal for investment counseling and research at Vanguard in Malvern, Pa., cautions that investors should not make rash moves just because of domestic market volatility, but adds that it makes sense for average investors to have 20 percent of their holdings in non-American stock funds.
 ''Moving to 20 percent would be a significant increase and a good diversification,'' Ms. Rinaldi says.
 But it does not make sense, in her view, for investors to go beyond about 30 percent. ''As you move up, and if you go over 30 percent, you're taking on additional risk and expense, so you're not getting as much diversification benefit,'' she says. Her firm offers a variety of international mutual funds like Total International, Pacific, Emerging Markets and Developed Markets. Emerging markets have traditionally been viewed as the riskiest in the world, but over the past several years, they have attracted a flood of capital and have performed strongly. ''These aren't your father's emerging markets,'' says Arthur P. Steinmetz, who manages $20 billion in assets at OppenheimerFunds, $5 billion of which is invested in emerging markets. 
 Mr. Steinmetz, based in New York, says that most emerging markets are far more sophisticated and stable than they were 10 years ago, when the Asian financial crisis hit. He notes that Brazil, for example, has $160 billion in foreign exchange reserves and that its foreign debt, once an issue of concern, has shrunk dramatically. It is much better able to withstand volatility. ''The sandbags that Brazil has around it against global flooding are much higher than they used to be,'' he says.
 Although Mr. Steinmetz says that now is a good time to buy emerging-market equities, Antoine van Agtmael, head of Emerging Markets Management in Arlington, Va., says that recent run-ups in their share prices mean that investors should wait.
 ''Emerging markets are fully priced,'' says Mr. van Agtmael, whose firm manages a family of funds with more than $20 billion in emerging-market investments. ''You don't want to go into these markets after they've had a big run.'' 
 He says he is convinced that emerging markets are a good bet over the next five years, just not in coming months.
 Although Mr. Steinmetz and Mr. van Agtmael may differ over timing, they share the view that further expected declines in the value of the dollar and other macroeconomic adjustments needed to reduce American borrowing in the world make investing in foreign securities increasingly important. ''I would argue that having exposure to international securities denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar is a useful hedge,'' Mr. Steinmetz says. ''Investors will have an asset that is appreciating,'' he said, even if the value of United States-based assets declines.
 Mr. van Agtmael, the author of ''The Emerging Markets Century,'' is credited with coining the term ''emerging markets'' in the early 1980s. He argues that structural changes in emerging markets mean that they are stable enough for average American investors.
 One such change is the investment opportunity offered by big infrastructure projects. ''Emerging markets now invest more in infrastructure than the United States,'' he says, citing the recent steam-pipe explosion in Manhattan and the bridge collapse in Minneapolis. ''That was not true just a couple of years ago. Their investments are going up at a rate of about 20 percent while ours has been growing at about 5 to 6 percent.''
 Although the American market is traditionally regarded as being so vast and deep that it is more stable than emerging countries' markets, those countries have made big strides in managing their foreign exchange reserves, current account deficits and currency positions. ''They've learned their lessons,'' Mr. van Agtmael says. ''Their economic policies have become a lot sounder than they were before and they have a hell of a lot more money.''
 Mr. van Agtmael is clearly more aggressive about emerging markets than many other investment professionals and argues that if emerging markets represent 23 percent of the world economy, investors should have at least 20 percent of their portfolios in these markets. ''That's neutral,'' he says. 
 And he has profited from his convictions: his fund has gained more than 30 percent in value over each of the past three years.
 PATRICK DORSEY, the director of equity research at Morningstar in Chicago, which rates mutual funds, says there is no one international investment percentage that all investors should embrace. ''It depends on age, risk tolerance and a whole list of factors,'' Mr. Dorsey says.
 But he agrees with money managers that Americans are ''overinvested'' in their home market. ''It's a familiarity bias,'' he says. ''But it may very well be that our home market is the riskiest. It's a mistake for investors to always think that foreign investments are always riskier.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); THAILAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



20 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Replacing Neglect With Peach Trees

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA
 ON a sweltering summer afternoon in August, Paul Glover rode his bicycle 12 miles to spread mulch around peach trees in a fledgling orchard -- in South Philadelphia. 
 Mr. Glover is founder of the Philly Orchard Project, a nonprofit organization established earlier this year with the goal of planting fruit trees on Philadelphia's vacant lots, creating ''edible community centers,'' Mr. Glover said. 
 Building on Philadelphia's tradition of community gardens and urban farms, Philly Orchard Project's leaders are hoping to emulate the success of longstanding urban orchard projects in Boston, Los Angeles and Austin, Tex. 
 Scott Harris, the executive director of TreeFolks, based in Austin, said his group's Urban Orchard Program has changed the culture of the city. The increase in residential food gardens has drawn children outside, away from television and video games, he said, and because people are outside more, there is less vandalism and crime.
 In Philadelphia, where the population has declined by more than 25 percent over the last half-century, there is no shortage of vacant land. 
 Domenic Vitiello, an assistant professor of city planning at the University of Pennsylvania, is president of the Philly Orchard Project's board. He said the population decline had occurred because the city lost nearly all of its industrial economy. 
 While everyone agrees that the city's thousands of vacant lots could serve a better purpose, there is no consensus on what should be done with them.
 Most tracts make up the small footprint of a row house and are interspersed in a line of occupied homes, their small size making them unattractive to developers. 
 The lots are also located in less desirable neighborhoods like South Philadelphia and New Kensington, where gentrification has been slow to take hold. Developers are more attracted to Center City, said Joanne Davidow, a vice president at Prudential Fox & Roach Realtors, where they are ''building on every little inch of ground.''
 It is these less-desired lots that the Philly Orchard Project is targeting. And environmentalists would like to see the vacant lots preserved as green space. Philadelphia Green, a program of the Pennsylvania Horticultural Society, began to ''clean and green'' many of these lots in 1974. ''The city didn't have a land management program in place to take care of those parcels,'' said Michael Groman, the organization's senior director. When vacant land is neglected, the resulting blight ''exacerbates the downward spiral in the neighborhood,'' he said. 
 Susan M. Wachter, a professor of real estate finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, set out to quantify the impact of vacant land on the housing market in a 2005 study. Her study examined New Kensington, an industrial neighborhood hit especially hard by the deindustrialization of the city. She found that cleaning up vacant land raised the value of adjacent homes by 20 percent.
 And in a 2006 study, Ms. Wachter and Grace Wong, an assistant professor of real estate at the Wharton School, found that planting trees on residential blocks citywide raised property values on the block by almost 10 percent. The increased market values are attributable to a ''combination of landscape changing dramatically, and also a signal that someone is reinvesting in the neighborhood,'' Ms. Wachter said.
 Real estate professionals in the city know that green space sells houses. Heather A. Petrone, associate broker for Joseph D. Petrone Real Estate and president of the Greater Philadelphia Association of Realtors, said she regularly includes proximity to community gardens in property descriptions. People who may be moving back to the city from suburban areas, where ''everybody has an acre,'' are especially interested in the gardens, Ms. Petrone said.
 As the population in Philadelphia and other cities continues to decline, city officials and urban planners are eager to retain existing city residents and attract new ones. 
 ''Philadelphia will not prosper by merely refilling with people,'' said Mr. Glover of the Philly Orchard Project. ''Real progress requires that agriculture becomes a prominent part of the structure, economy and culture of the city.'' He sees urban agriculture as a way to combat poverty by creating jobs and inexpensive food, while reducing the environmental impact of food production. 
 A veteran activist, Mr. Glover is best known for founding Ithaca Hours in 1991, an alternative currency designed to strengthen the local economy in Ithaca, N.Y. 
 Mr. Glover and his organization already have two orchards under way in Philadelphia, and they are planning several more to be planted this fall, when fruit trees can tolerate transplanting.
 They expect to plant primarily on land acquired through transfers of development rights, where owners retain the title but give up the right to develop the land. The project also plans to help existing neighborhood groups, like schools and community centers, plant their own orchards. 
 In South Philadelphia, for example, the group provided peach trees and expertise to a group of youth interns who had started a community garden on land owned by United Communities Southeast Philadelphia, a community development agency that provides educational and leadership opportunities.
 Laura Smoot, a youth development specialist who works with the volunteers who planted that garden, said the project had been welcomed by area residents. ''Litter and vandalism have drastically reduced since we started planting gardens and fruit trees,'' she said. 
 For 35 years, Sharon Robinson has lived opposite the lot where the new orchard planted this spring is already producing peaches. She remembers when an apartment building on the lot was abandoned. After the city tore it down, the lot sat empty for years, accumulating debris.
 Ms. Robinson used to go to a park across town when she wanted to be outside. But since Ms. Smoot and her interns began cleaning up the lot, Ms. Robinson said, she spends time outside on her front porch and contributes to the garden by watering it on weekends. 
 The group is in the process of finding more sites appropriate for fruit trees, and the city is a possible source of land. Darlene Messina, Philadelphia's coordinator for environmental and urban sustainability initiatives, said that the city may consider allocating land for orchards or other urban agriculture initiatives, but ''it has to make economic sense.''
 The city has started a new initiative, GreenPlan Philadelphia, to preserve open space and reduce greenhouse gas emissions citywide. ''Orchards are part of that plan,'' Ms. Messina said. 
 In the meantime, volunteers recently gathered to plant perennials around the young trees and layer wet newspaper and compost to keep the weeds down. They lined the beds with broken bricks salvaged from the apartment building that stood in the empty lot before the city tore it down.
 ''Beauty in cities is not a luxury,'' Ms. Wachter said. ''It's a necessary public good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GROUNDWORK: Clockwise from left, Paul Glover, in foreground, with Philly Orchard Project volunteers in a vacant lot between row houses in South Philadelphia, where gentrification has been slow. Laura Smoot works in the garden with Steven Ngo, a volunteer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION DECLINE (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GARDENING (78%); HORTICULTURE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); CITIES (70%); VANDALISM (54%)

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FOX & ROACH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



21 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: Watching Every Step Of the Joyce at 25

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA LA ROCCO

 BODY:
THE Joyce Theater has been dark for two weeks. The crowds that congregate under its pink neon marquee eight times a week, disrupting foot traffic at Eighth Avenue and 19th Street in Chelsea, won't return until the Martha Graham Dance Company opens there on Sept. 11. 
 These shuttered weeks, used for maintenance work, are just a breather for the 472-seat Joyce, which celebrated 25 years in operation on June 1. In honor of that anniversary the Joyce has awarded 25 commissions of $25,000 each, a gift from the Joyce's board chairman, for companies to create new work atop of the theater's regular commissions. Its Chelsea space will have performances for 49 weeks, one more than usual, in the 2007-8 season. And there are residencies at its Mercer Street satellite, the 74-seat Joyce SoHo theater and studio complex, which will soon undergo major artistic and structural renovations.
 Perhaps most significant, the Joyce remains the only arts organization involved in a complex proposed for ground zero. 
 In an economically shaky art form, the Joyce is a bastion of growth and stability. Outside New York it has ''the Good Housekeeping seal,'' said Dorothy Gunther Pugh, the founder of Ballet Memphis. Companies like hers, which made a critically and economically successful debut at the Joyce in the spring, benefit from the theater's loyal audience of subscribers, who save 25 percent when they see four or more shows a season. The system allows subscribers to take a chance on something unfamiliar, like Ballet Memphis, in addition to the regulars: a passel of New York-area companies, like Garth Fagan Dance, Pilobolus and the Stephen Petronio Company, which perform there every year, or close to it. 
 ''It's incredibly rare for an organization like the Joyce to take a curatorial role with an artist, investing in art over the long term as opposed to 'buying' into the next 'successful' show,'' Mr. Petronio said. But he added: ''While having that kind of subscription audience is really important, of course you don't want art to be business as usual. You want it to be transformative.''
 Mr. Petronio was referring to the tensions artists feel as they seek to develop audiences, but his comment touches on a concern among many in the dance world: that too often the Joyce makes safe artistic choices. As one choreographer said, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of alienating the theater, the Joyce ''books stuff that goes down easy.''
 Linda Shelton, the Joyce's executive director, disagreed. She conceded that it's a struggle to create an audience for challenging dance but insisted that the Joyce strikes a good balance. ''We are trying to serve a very broad range of different kinds of work,'' she said, ''because we think that's what attracts a broad audience.''
 Of course one person's staples are another's staid choices, and the Joyce knows the hopelessness of pleasing everybody. It was conceived to serve a very specific constituent: the midsized dance company.
 In 1978 Eliot Feld and Cora Cahan, then the executive director of Feld Ballet, had a ''Field of Dreams'' moment at ''a wonderful theater'' that was, Mr. Feld said, ''seemingly in the middle of a cornfield.'' How could it be, they wondered, that Ames, Iowa, had a theater more economically and artistically appropriate for midsize dance companies than New York had? 
 Enter the abandoned Elgin Theater in Chelsea, which was up for sale. Ms. Cahan and Mr. Feld surveyed the Elgin, formerly a pornographic cinema. The Original Ballets Foundation, the Feld Ballet's parent unit, took title of the building in January 1979. With the backing of LuEsther T. Mertz (the theater is named after her daughter, who died in 1974), the building was renovated, a subsidized rental system was created and, in 1984, a presenting element was added. Soon the Joyce had more rental applications than it could accommodate. Last season it presented 10 productions itself and had 24 rentals. 
 ''The genesis of the Joyce was really market driven,'' Mr. Feld said. ''The model was a practical model that offered aesthetic and artistic fulfillment for our institution. I hoped it did for others as well, but frankly what I really wanted to do was create a theater that was lit a lot because that made the theater economically viable. And I think that that is both its strength and its weakness.''
 Ms. Cahan called the Joyce a ''service organization in the shape of a theater,'' a sentiment echoed by its current staff. But some say it may be time to make the model more responsive to the economic and artistic realities of 2007.
 ''When we started the Joyce,'' said Lisa Post, who worked in several positions at the Joyce from 1983 to 1991 and is now senior vice president of the New 42nd Street, ''the thought was that it was a steppingstone, that companies would grow, and they would become more established, and they would build their audiences and go on to larger venues.''
 ''I'm not sure that ever happened,'' she said. Instead the Joyce is host to companies that return year after year, ''so it's a little bit of a static situation.'' 
 For the Joyce's critics things became more static in 2004, when the theater dropped Altogether Different, a festival begun in 1991 and dedicated to exposing audiences to more contemporary, challenging choreographers, and added Evening Stars. That September festival, presented with the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council in Battery Park, has helped the Joyce establish a presence in Lower Manhattan and often features classical modern choreographers, like Doug Varone and Lar Lubovitch, whose companies regularly perform on the Chelsea stage and are established with a mainstream audience. 
 Ms. Shelton and Martin Wechsler, the Joyce's director of programming, say Altogether Different confused audiences, left many seats empty and compromised Joyce debuts for artists because they had to share a program. Both said that smaller theaters like Dance Theater Workshop were better suited to such programming.
 But the loss is felt. The festival, the choreographer Luciana Achugar said, ''was a good way of possibly introducing audiences that are thinking of dance only as Pilobolus or Ballet Hispanico, to educate them in other things that are happening.''
 The Joyce does present a wide range of work, from tap to contemporary ballet to the French choreographer Maguy Marin, whose conceptual, politically charged work the theater staunchly supports even though some viewers have walked out. Depending on whom you ask, the presence of a choreographer like Ms. Marin is either proof of the theater's open-mindedness or the exception that proves the rule. 
 Ms. Shelton cited Pilobolus as a gateway company that draws in dance novices. Anecdotal evidence, she said, suggests some people then come back for different kinds of dance. But it's difficult to know for sure. 
 ''I've been in conversations with American presenters who have said to me, 'I can't afford not to present Pilobolus because their fees are low, and I'm guaranteed that I'm going to sell the house and make money,' '' said the choreographer John Jasperse, who participated in Altogether Different and has received one of the $25,000 commissions. ''So it fits into a context of a season that makes other things possible.
 ''But my retort to that is, yes, you get people to come and to come back, but you're building a loyalty of a particular kind of audience member. You're shaping an idea of what dance and performance is and should be, and then you're frustrated you have a problem. 
 ''It's a delicate balance, and one, I think, that in this country is not easy. But you can't just say, 'Oh, well.' You have to own in some way your participation in the creation of the situation.''
 Mr. Jasperse is a co-founder of the planned artist-run Center for Performance Research in Brooklyn; like the Joyce it hopes to address problems facing dance in New York. He is both respectful and critical of the Joyce, but for others, any criticism simply reflects the impoverished state of dance presenting in America.
 ''It's not that the Joyce is doing anything wrong,'' said Karole Armitage, whose Armitage Gone! Dance company has performed at the Joyce three times since 2001, starting with Altogether Different that year, and is to return in January with a premiere. ''It's that there's just not enough room to go around.'' 
 ''There are other places whose role is to be more edgy, but these are usually associated with young people,'' she added. ''What we really need in this city is another space for mature artists.''
 This sentiment is echoed by Ms. Shelton, who is keenly aware of the burden of expectation placed on the Joyce. The proposed theater at the ground zero site is desperately needed to alleviate the crunch for space, she said. It would, she argued, provide an appropriate house for larger companies like Miami City Ballet, which ''dance around'' New York in regional and suburban theaters, and a bigger stage for some of the companies that currently call the Joyce in Chelsea home, thus allowing it more programming flexibility. 
 Many in the dance world now assume that the ground zero complex won't be built, and some have questioned whether the energy and resources could be better spent. But a 1,000-seat theater for dance in such a visible location is ''one of the best things that the Joyce could ever do for the field,'' Ms. Shelton said. 
 Neither she nor Kate D. Levin, the city's commissioner of cultural affairs, would offer a timeline. Ms. Shelton insisted that the complicated venture was on track; Ms. Levin gave no guarantees. But Ms. Levin said that the institution's ''extraordinary track record'' is one of the main reasons for the city's support of another space for the Joyce organization.
 Mr. Feld's company has not proved as durable as his brainchild of the Joyce; he disbanded it in 2003 over money, making the Chelsea space, where he has first right of refusal for up to 90 days of performances a year, less integral to his career. Now, he said, he ''might be more motivated to build a theater that had a really strong point of view.'' 
 This ''might be'' is troubling for the Joyce's current leadership, whose initial, $1-a-year lease with the Ballet Tech Foundation, once known as the Original Ballets Foundation and of which Mr. Feld is president, expires in 2016. 
 Mr. Feld and Ms. Cahan, now president of the New 42nd Street, remain emeritus board members. She was not re-elected in 1998, and Mr. Feld resigned in 1994, to remove himself before the LuEsther T. Mertz Charitable Trust sought to have the ownership of the building transferred to the Joyce Theater Foundation. This transfer, and the $10 million endowment the trust would have given to both foundations under the deal, fell through, with the Joyce foundation unwilling to enter binding arbitration talks. 
 The foundation has since raised an endowment of more than $13 million on its own, but the loss was a blow to Mr. Feld, who refused to say what would happen in 2016. The date looms, Ms. Shelton acknowledged, but the board is aware of it. 
 It's a safe bet that the Joyce will persevere. As Ms. Shelton said of the theater's tenacity to stay part of the ground zero plans, ''we're in it for the long haul.''
 What started as a dream by two ''upstarts,'' as Mr. Feld said, has become an institution, both cherished and disdained. Ms. Shelton called the criticism hurtful but conceded that it might be healthy, in this shakiest of art forms, to have a theater stable enough to incite eye rolling, not least so a new generation of upstarts can propose its own audacious solutions. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dance companies in performance at the Joyce Theater in Chelsea: Ballet Memphis, left
Garth Fagan Dance, below
and the Stephen Petronio Company, bottom left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Linda Shelton, the executive director of the Joyce Theater. ''We are trying to serve a very broad range of different kinds of work,'' she said, ''because we think that's what attracts a broad audience.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CHERNIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DANCE (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); ART COLLECTING (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



22 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: A Tool To Organize Our Many Organizers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FITZGERALD. 
Michael Fitzgerald is a Boston-area writer on business, technology and culture. E-mail: mfitz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN he started his software company, Faizan Buzdar and three friends worked from a spare bedroom in the home of another friend. Their view was inspiring: the lovely house of an entrepreneur who had made a mint from his own start-up. ''We would look at it and say we would buy it when we succeeded,'' Mr. Buzdar said last week.
 He may get the chance. His start-up, the Scrybe Corporation (www.iscrybe.com), which developed a personal information manager, recently said it had received an undisclosed amount of venture funding from Adobe Systems and L.M.K.R., an information technology services company based in Dubai. 
 Scrybe might have seemed a long shot to get even this far. Mr. Buzdar, 31, is based in Pakistan's capital city, Islamabad, hardly known as a haven for software entrepreneurs. And Scrybe is trying to enter a well-established market dominated by Microsoft Outlook in the business world and by Google, Yahoo and a host of smaller companies on the Web. But Mr. Buzdar's product, which is also called Scrybe and made its debut in a seven-minute YouTube video in October 2006, has drawn sustained interest. The reasons suggest he has figured out something fundamental about how we want access to schedules and related information. 
 Scrybe's tools include a clever interface that features zooming calendar boxes that become bigger when scrolled over, the ability to print in multiple formats, including wallet- and pocket-friendly versions, and a novel notepad that accepts text and images from the Web as well as the usual typed-in notes. It also works offline, something that Outlook and other existing programs cannot do. 
 One user, David Gerboni, who works for a community bank in New York, said he had adopted Scrybe because of its interface and because it did a better job of pulling together data than any other calendar he has used, including Outlook.
 All of this has made Scrybe, which remains in beta testing, the most anticipated software at the Museum of Modern Betas, a Web site that tracks emerging Web 2.0 projects. More than 300,000 people have watched the YouTube video. Given that the company had a public relations budget of zero dollars, Mr. Buzdar had told his co-founders (three friends he knew from the Pakistani outsourcing industry), that they might attract 10,000 users in six months. Instead, he said, ''we had about 100,000 users in a few weeks.'' 
 Of course, Scrybe is not the only new company trying to build a better way to organize personal information. Last week, the Open Source Applications Foundation released a much-delayed preview version of a product called Chandler. Another such tool that is planned to emerge this month is IWantSandy, which aims to handle calendar functions via e-mail. 
 While calendar sharing may sound mundane, the problem vexes people like David Weinberger, a research fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard Law School and author of ''Everything Is Miscellaneous,'' a book that looks at how things should be organized -- or not -- in the online age. ''I go through contortions like everybody else to sync up my BlackBerry with my Google calendar,'' he said. 
 Mr. Weinberger said that the calendar issue symbolized a much bigger problem with information: It is atomized into various databases and hard to pull together. 
 ''What we need is the ability to associate the people and the times and the places of our lives with the broad messy context of our lives,'' he said. He added that the new tools are an early but important step toward giving people and companies a better way to manage their increasingly complicated existence.
 A McKinsey & Company study of United States economic activity in 2005 said that 40 percent of labor activity, the biggest chunk, came not from making things or from traditional transactions but from what McKinsey called ''the interaction economy,'' the part in which people collaborate, solve problems and design products and such. One might also call it ''the meeting economy.'' It is the least commoditized part of the economy, and the hardest to measure and manage -- and it involves the highest-priced labor.
 ''The nature of work has changed, and so has the technology that matters to businesses,'' said James M. Manyika, a senior partner at McKinsey. Personal productivity applications like Scrybe matter more than big companywide applications like enterprise resource planning systems. ''You're not trying to automate the task a human does; you're trying to complement what the human is doing,'' he said.
 MR. BUZDAR acknowledged that Scrybe might never solve the problems of large companies. Indeed, John Leckrone, director of venture development at Adobe, said he expected Scrybe to expand the market for organizing software rather than displace existing products. Scrybe's initial version is basically a personal organizer. But Mr. Buzdar said that he plans to link the tool more closely with Outlook in the near future, and that a version for small and medium-size businesses was in the works.
 For its part, Microsoft is certain to continue to adapt its products for the increasingly collaborative world of Web business, as is I.B.M., the other large provider of corporate calendar and information sharing tools.
 Paul Saffo, a technology forecaster in Silicon Valley, says Scrybe is among a wave of companies that are forcing businesses to rethink what they do with information. Doing business increasingly means pulling together people across different time zones and companies. E-mail and phones aren't efficient ways to organize these things, so there is pressure to create publicly viewable calendars. 
 Mr. Saffo said the big difference between these new personal information managers and those of the past ''is that these new things share.'' 
 He said the situation reminded him of the way personal computers broke down corporate information bureaucracies and gave all workers greater access to data. Companies are being forced to deal with such sweeping change again, and it will create confusion and consternation, but ultimately more effective communication. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The Prototypes column last Sunday, about Scrybe, a personal information management software program, misspelled the surname of a Scrybe user who said he had adopted it because of its interface and because its calendar did a better job of pulling together data than others. He is David Gerbino, not Gerboni.
 The column also referred incorrectly to Web-based calendars that can work offline. While Scrybe's is the only one that can do so without additional technology, other calendar tools can be configured to do so or to be accessible from the Web, including Google Calendar and those that come with Microsoft Outlook, I.B.M. Lotus Notes and Domino, and Zimbra. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scrybe's tools include time-zone management, top, calendar boxes that become bigger when scrolled over, left, and a notepad that accepts text and images from the Web, bottom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); OUTSOURCING (74%); BUDGETS (73%); WEB 2 (72%)

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (84%); ADB (FRA) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (71%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (76%); UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



23 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Rich Get Richer While Poor Hold Their Own

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
THE short trip from downtown Yonkers to the stately homes of Bronxville crosses a canyon of income inequality rivaled by few places in the country, new census data show.
 Westchester County has one of the sharpest contrasts between rich and poor in the nation, a vast gap in fortunes exceeded only by a few other places, led by Manhattan but most of them poor counties in the deep South and far West, according to measures that the Census Bureau released for the first time last week. 
 The highest-earning fifth of households in Westchester made $341,544 on average, 20 times as much as the bottom fifth, whose average was $17,388, according to the Census Bureau. The top 5 percent in Westchester made $666,222, on average, third highest in the country after Fairfield, Conn., and Manhattan. 
 In much of the country, places with wide gaps between rich and poor have them because poverty there is extreme. For instance, Apache County, Ariz., which contains Navajo and Apache Indian reservations, was the second-highest in income inequality, and the income of the bottom fifth of households was $2,835. In Tuscaloosa County, Ala., which ranked seventh, it was under $6,000.
 But in the New York metropolitan region, and in the Northeast in general, inequality is driven by the great wealth of the top-earning group. Manhattan had the most unequal income distribution in the country, with the top fifth making 40 times the average of the bottom fifth. Westchester ranked 29th in the country, while Essex County, N.J., which includes Newark, ranked 12th. 
 ''In general, inequality has gotten worse not because people in the middle or bottom have lost, but people at the top have gained enormously,'' said Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell University's Johnson School of Management, a contributor to The New York Times and author of ''Falling Behind: How Rising Inequality Harms the Middle Class.'' 
 In Fairfield County, Conn., which had the 14th largest gap in income distribution, the top 5 percent of earners made $746,726 in 2006, by far the highest in the country.
 Some economists say the inequality in the region is a natural outgrowth of the area's heavy reliance on property taxes to finance local government, because people with means move to places that have better services, paid for by higher taxes, stratifying income and privilege by geography.
 ''If you start with a system of heavy reliance on the local property tax and have mobile populations, you're going to end up with geographic distributions that are unequal,'' said Frank S. Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''People in jurisdictions where there's not a lot of money are left to fend for themselves.''
 Some of that imbalance is addressed by state aid to education and by court-ordered equalization of spending on schools. In New York, a large infusion of state money intended to help address inequities between rich and poor schools this year produced only a modest equalizing effect after a legislative compromise. 
 But in New Jersey, Newark and some other poor urban school districts now spend as much per pupil as the richest districts because of a court order. And Newark's poverty has actually eased recently, according to the new census data; it posted one of the biggest gains in median income of any city in the country. 
 But inequality in close geographic proximity leads to other potential problems, economists say. Spending by the wealthy not only drives prices up for the less wealthy, but also creates pressure to spend. 
 ''The context is always local, so if you live in Nepal, the kind of house in which you feel it's O.K. to live is vastly different from some other place,'' Dr. Frank said. When someone lives in a better place nearby, he said, people feel the pressure to spend on better housing. 
 The spectacular gains at the top create pressure all the way down the income ladder to spend more, which puts more people under financial duress, Dr. Frank said. 
 ''We looked at county data from 1990 to 2000, and the counties where income inequality grew the most, even after controlling for other factors, had higher increases in divorce rates and bankruptcy filings, and in the proportion of those taking long commutes,'' Dr. Frank said.
 There are also studies that show that people's health is worse in places with high income inequality, even after controlling for the bad health effects of being poor. ''Being in the bottom of a group is just stressful,'' Dr. Frank said.
 Apart from the issue of inequality, the new census figures show that New Jersey relinquished its rank as the state with the highest median income to Maryland in 2006. But four of the top 10 counties in the country in median income are in the New York metropolitan area, including three in New Jersey: Hunterdon, with median income of $93,297, was fourth; Somerset, at $91,688, was sixth; and Morris, at $89,587, was seventh.
 Nassau County ranked 10th and, at $85,994, had the highest median income among counties in New York in 2006.

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''Income, and Income Disparity, in the Area'' Median household income in 2006 for counties in the metropolitan area and their rank among the 786 largest U.S. counties. The disparity between the wealthy and poor was especially wide in some counties. The wealthiest 20 percent in Fairfield County earned 23 times more than the poorest 20 percent, for example. (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (91%); CENSUS (91%); COUNTIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



24 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: New York Retools Its Loans

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THANKS to the softening real estate market, first-time buyers may be having an easier time finding houses in their price range, and in New York, they may have an easier time finding an inexpensive mortgage, too.
 The State of New York Mortgage Agency -- Sonyma (pronounced Sony Mae) -- offers low-cost loans to low- and moderate-income buyers, and in August, it unveiled a pair of significant changes.
 The new regulations take aim at two major hurdles that Sonyma's prospective borrowers have encountered in recent years. 
 One is the requirement that Sonyma borrowers in New York City and Westchester and Rockland Counties and on Long Island buy houses costing $427,000 or less. Because of this stipulation and the run-up in house prices, just 7 percent of the agency's loans have typically gone to borrowers in New York City, even though 40 percent of the state's population lives here.
 To address the situation, the agency bumped up that limit to $467,000 for existing homes (including co-ops and condos) and to $460,300 for new homes.
 The second major change will remove a penalty for Sonyma borrowers who sell their homes for significant gains within nine years. The federal government levies a so-called ''recapture'' tax on such gains, if the borrowers' incomes and housing profits exceed a certain amount. Now, Sonyma will reimburse borrowers for the tax, which varies according to how long the borrower keeps the house. 
 George Leocata, a Sonyma senior vice president, said that very few borrowers had to pay the recapture tax in the past, because the income limits and capital-gains thresholds were relatively high. 
 For instance, to qualify for the tax, borrowers who sold their homes in the first year of the loan would have to see their incomes rise by 32 percent during that year. 
 But, Mr. Leocata said, many lenders and real estate agents used the threat of the tax as an excuse to steer borrowers away from Sonyma loans and toward other mortgages on which the lenders made higher profits and which they could close more quickly. Sonyma loans typically take 75 days to process, he said, a month longer than most others. 
 But given Sonyma's interest rates, its loans are worth the wait. Late last month, a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage carried a 5.625 percent interest rate, while the agency's other product, the 40-year fixed-rate loan, carried a 5.75 percent rate. That was nearly three-fourths of a percentage point lower than similar loans from commercial lenders. 
 Income limits for those who qualify for the program have not changed. In New York City, for instance, borrowers who live in households with two or fewer people must earn $85,080 or less to qualify, while those with three or more people must earn $99,260 or less. Mr. Leocata said the average income for his New York City borrowers last year was $63,370.
 Programs to help first-time home buyers are common in many states, but of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, only New York has made significant changes to its program. 
 Chris Donnelly, a spokesman for the New Jersey State Banking and Insurance Department, said that it was considering changes similar to New York's, but no roll-out date has been set.
 Even in the absence of such changes, though, interest in other states' programs is picking up, said Rose Holbrook, a spokeswoman for the Connecticut Housing Finance Authority. 
 ''We're seeing more demand for our product, especially now with what's happening in the subprime market,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH (SOURCE: HSH ASSOCIATES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



25 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE TESTING LAB; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3821 words

HEADLINE: Safety Agency Faces Scrutiny Amid Changes

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
In March 2005, the Consumer Product Safety Commission called together the nation's top safety experts to confront an alarming statistic: 44,000 children riding all terrain vehicles were injured the previous year, nearly 150 of them fatally. 
 National associations of pediatricians, consumer advocates and emergency room doctors were urging the commission to ban sales of adult-size A.T.V.'s for use by children under 16 because the machines were too big and fast for young drivers to control. But when it came time to consider such a step, a staff member whose name did not appear on the meeting agenda unexpectedly weighed in.
 ''My own view is the situation is not necessarily deteriorating,'' said John Gibson Mullan, the agency's director of compliance and a former lawyer for the A.T.V. industry, according to a recording. The current system of warning labels and other voluntary safety standards was working, he said. ''We would need to be very careful about making any changes.'' 
 Robin L. Ingle, then the agency's hazard statistician and A.T.V. injury expert, was dumbfounded. Her months of research did not support Mr. Mullan's analysis. Yet she would not get to offer a rebuttal. 
 ''He had hijacked the presentation,'' Ms. Ingle said in an interview. ''He was distorting the numbers in order to benefit industry and defeat the petition. It was almost like he still worked for them, not us.''
 Under the Bush administration, which promised to ease what it viewed as costly rules that placed unnecessary burdens on businesses, industry-friendly officials have been installed at agencies that oversee the nation's workplaces, food suppliers, environment and consumer goods.
 Top officials at the Consumer Product Safety Commission say they have enhanced protections for the American public in recent years. But they have also blocked enforcement actions, weakened industry oversight rules and promoted voluntary compliance over safety mandates, according to interviews with current and former senior agency officials and consumer groups and a review of commission documents. 
 At a time when imports from China and other Asian countries surged, creating an ever greater oversight challenge, the Bush-appointed commissioners voiced few objections as the already tiny agency -- now just 420 workers -- was pared almost to the bone. 
 At the nation's ports, the handful of agency inspectors are hard pressed to find dangerous cargo before it enters the country; instead, they rely on other federal agents, who mostly act as trademark enforcers, looking for counterfeit Nike sneakers or Duracell batteries.
 At the agency's cramped laboratory, a lone employee is charged with testing suspected defective toys from across the nation. At the nearby headquarters, safety initiatives have been stalled or dropped after dozens of jobs were eliminated in budget cutbacks.
 Other workers quit in frustration. The head of the poison prevention unit, for example, resigned when efforts to require inexpensive child-resistant caps on hair care products that had burned toddlers were delayed so industry costs could be weighed against the potential benefit to children. 
 ''Buyer beware -- that is all I have to say,'' Suzanne Barone, the poison prevention expert, who left in 2005, said.
 Like a number of longtime former and current officials at the agency, she said she believes that it is failing to fulfill its mission. ''There is only so much that the few people there can do,'' she said. ''So much damage has been done.''
 Agency officials defend their record. ''The commission is currently doing more to protect consumers than it has at any prior time in its history,'' said Nancy A. Nord, the acting chairwoman. ''Even more could be done with greater resources, but the media's portrayal of a crippled and impotent agency, unable to deal with basic problems, is reckless and just plain wrong.''
 Congress intended the agency to protect the public by working with the industry and others to establish voluntary standards. Ms. Nord and industry executives say that system is largely effective, in no small measure because it is in companies' self-interest to avoid turning out products that cause harm. When hazards arise, Ms. Nord says, she is confident that the agency acts to deal with them appropriately.
 For the first time in years, the commission has drawn sustained attention because of the headlines generated in recent months by the seemingly endless recalls of Chinese-made products: Thomas & Friends toy trains, Mattel Sesame Street toys, propane grills, high chairs, computer batteries, lawn trimmers, children's jewelry and tool kits.
 But the agency has hardly been a priority of the Bush administration. The commission's shrinking budget is just $62 million this year, even though the agency regulates an industry that sells $1.4 trillion annually. The Food and Drug Administration, with a $2 billion budget, spends nearly twice as much monitoring the safety of animal feed and drugs than the Consumer Product Safety Commission spends to ensure the safety of products as diverse as toys, tools and televisions used every day by millions of Americans. 
 Ms. Nord acknowledges that the agency has to limit its focus; it investigates only 10 percent to 15 percent of the reported injuries or deaths linked to consumer goods; the number of such reports has grown in recent years. But she ticks off achievements: a record number of recalls -- 471 products -- last year. Increased fines for safety violations. A rise in reports from companies disclosing product safety problems. A new standard to prevent mattress fires, a leading killer, and more mandates under review than ever before.
 Consumer advocates say the increased recalls and hazard reports make a different case: that too many flawed products are in the marketplace because the agency is not doing its job.
 ''Once there is a recall, it is too late,'' said Rachel Weintraub, the director of product safety at the Consumer Federation of America. ''Consumers are already exposed to the potential harm.''
 New Chairman and New Era
 Even one of the two current commissioners agrees that the agency is falling short, and warns that it is in peril.
 Speaking to lawmakers earlier this year, Thomas H. Moore, that commissioner, said, ''The commission can either continue to decline in staff, resources and stature to the point where it is no longer an effective force in consumer protection, or with the support of Congress, it can regain the important place in American society that it was originally designed to have.'' 
 Mr. Moore, who was appointed by President Bill Clinton, has often found himself outvoted in recent years as he pushed for tougher standards or more aggressive enforcement. In his appearance before Congress, he argued that the need for government protection of consumers is greater than ever before. 
 ''It is suggested in some circles that the modern, sophisticated marketplace of today can effectively regulate itself for product safety,'' Mr. Moore said. But, he added, ''competition and voluntary actions of today's businessmen do not always suffice to safeguard the public interest.'' 
 Mr. Bush began delivering on his deregulatory agenda soon after arriving in Washington. He named Harold D. Stratton, a former attorney general of New Mexico, to head the consumer protection agency. Created by Congress in 1972 in the fervor of Ralph Nader's consumer movement, the agency was long seen as an irritant by manufacturers and business groups.
 A conservative Republican and a Bush campaign volunteer, Mr. Stratton strongly objected when he was an attorney general to counterparts in other states bringing consumer protection cases, saying they were trying ''to impose their own antibusiness, pro-government regulation views.'' Later, he was co-founder of a nonprofit group, the Rio Grande Foundation, which says it promotes ''individual freedom, limited government, and economic opportunity.''
 Soon after becoming commission chairman in 2002, Mr. Stratton told the National Association of Manufacturers that he was determined to ''break the barrier of fear'' by assuring industry leaders -- whose political action committees and executives had just donated millions of dollars to Mr. Bush's campaign -- that a consumer complaint would not automatically result in a product recall. The era of the ''federal nanny,'' as a Republican commissioner described the agency during the Clinton years, was over.
 Many industry officials applaud the administration's emphasis on encouraging voluntary compliance on safety issues. In a changing marketplace, they argue, mandatory standards would be cumbersome and damaging.
 ''It would take years to adopt them,'' said Charles A. Samuels, a Washington lawyer who represents makers of home appliances.
 In 2003, Mr. Stratton moved to reverse an enforcement action started two years earlier against the Daisy Manufacturing Company that sought to force it to remove 7.2 million air-powered BB guns from the market. 
 The guns were flawed, the agency staff had argued, because a BB could become lodged within the barrel even when the chamber appeared to be empty, a condition that agency research showed had caused at least 15 deaths and 171 serious injuries, most of them involving children.
 Citing Daisy's ''precarious financial condition,'' Mr. Stratton rejected the recall plan -- and the court proceeding that is necessary any time the commission wants to force a company to accept a recall -- saying, ''I consider this administrative legal proceeding to be burdensome and inefficient.'' 
 In an unusual step, he personally negotiated an agreement with the company to put a bigger warning label on its guns and spend $1.5 million on a safety education campaign. William B. Moran, the administrative law judge hearing the case, condemned Mr. Stratton's alternative as toothless and said the deal would ''create the risk that the public could perceive its decision as driven by its political makeup.'' But the commission approved the settlement in a two-to-one vote in November 2003.
 Several months later, Mr. Stratton appointed Mr. Mullan the agency's general counsel. He came from Kirkland & Ellis, a Chicago law firm with a large office in Washington. Under Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel who investigated President Clinton, the firm's Washington office became a magnet for members of the conservative Federalist Society and a hiring pool for the Bush administration.
 Among the firm's lobbying clients was the National Association of Manufacturers. Mr. Mullan had represented General Motors, which he helped defend against claims that fuel tanks on its pickup trucks were flawed and led to side-impact explosions. He also helped represent Polaris, a maker of A.T.V.'s, against consumer commission accusations that it failed to report safety defects in two of its vehicles that had resulted in hundreds of complaints and at least 25 injuries.
 Roy Deppa, an engineer who retired last year, said it was a little odd at first to work with Mr. Mullan as a colleague.
 ''It is like having someone you fought against what you are trying to do then come to your side,'' he said.
 Not long after Mr. Mullan arrived, he became the agency's director of compliance. It is one of the safety commission's highest-profile posts, with oversight of all investigations and enforcement actions.
 In that role, he argued against a ban on sales of A.T.V.'s for use by children, and a staff report concurred. Adults could still buy the machines and permit children to ride them, Mr. Mullan said, and the agency did not have enough staff to enforce the mandate. Agreeing, the commission rejected a ban.
 Mr. Mullan said he is permitted to participate in agency debates over A.T.V. rules or even enforcement matters related to Polaris, his former client, as long as he was not involved in that specific matter when he represented the company.
 ''The ethical rules are pretty clear on this,'' he said in an interview. ''And I think I have been far beyond reproach on these issues.''
 Reporting Defects 
 Once in his new post, Mr. Mullan helped narrow the requirements for reporting safety defects to the commission, a move long sought by manufacturers. Companies are obligated to notify the agency within 24 hours if they learn that their products could pose a substantial threat to the public. Seeking to better balance industry interests with safeguards for consumers, the commission, with Mr. Mullan's support, adopted new rules. 
 Companies would no longer be required to report a product if the risk of injury was considered obvious or predictable, or if misuse played a role. They could also weigh whether the product was no longer in wide use or had not been sold for many years.
 Consumer advocates, the nation's fire marshals and even some former agency employees had objected to the change, citing flawed baby cribs as an example of when a manufacturer improperly blamed misuse or improper assembly for several deaths. The new rules, they said, would let companies hide evidence about such defects.
 ''I find these proposed revisions not only unnecessary, but potentially dangerous for consumers,'' wrote Catherine E. Downs, a former senior official at the agency. ''Many in management positions at C.P.S.C. have lost their contact with the consuming public who they intended to serve.''
 Agency officials, including Mr. Mullan, rejected those claims, saying all they were doing was clarifying the rules, not relaxing them. 
 Other agency officials, including Ms. Barone, the project manager for poison prevention, and Art McDonald, the director of the hazard and injury data section, found that priorities had shifted. A database of burns caused by consumer products was closed. And agency officials stopped asking for regular briefings on emerging product hazards, Mr. McDonald said. ''There was just a lack of interest,'' said Mr. McDonald, who retired in 2004.
 Ms. Barone and her staff, after noticing a rise in reported injuries from the active ingredient found in certain powerful hair relaxers, started an effort to require that they be packaged with child-resistant caps. 
 Unlike other mandates, new rules in involving poison prevention could be set by the agency without conducting a cost-benefit study, according to federal law. But Ms. Barone was told that the economic analysis was being pushed by the White House Office of Management and Budget, agency documents show.
 ''We are talking one to two cents per package here for something that we know is toxic,'' said Ms. Barone, who now works for the F.D.A. ''The other option is just to wait for more children to get hurt. It is just kind of sad.''
 Enter the Chinese
 The cranes that hover like a swarm of giant praying mantises over the piers at the Long Beach, Calif., port are concrete evidence of how global trade has transformed the safety commission's task in keeping American consumers safe.
 The towering cranes lift container after container of goods from China, which sends more products through the neighboring Los Angeles and Long Beach ports than to any others in the United States. In just the last decade, imports of Chinese consumer products nationwide have surged to $246 billion from $62 billion, according to agency statistics. Nearly 20 percent of the consumer products for sale in the country today are Chinese-made, compared to 5 percent in 1997.
 And some of them may be dangerous. By law, the commission can mandate safety standards only after voluntary measures have failed. Chinese officials and factory owners have said, however, that they do not feel compelled to meet the voluntary standards.
 ''Time and again, through the translators, they made clear they did not understand this concept,'' said Nick Marchica, an engineer and former agency senior aide. ''What they told us was, 'As far as we are concerned, voluntary means we don't have to.' '' 
 Mr. Marchica said some Chinese products, like electrical extension cords or children's jewelry, frequently violate the standards. But the consumer agency is handicapped in finding those goods or blocking them from reaching American buyers. The commission has no inspectors at factories overseas. And at ports in the United States, the agency is overwhelmed. 
 In Los Angeles area ports, through which 15 million truck-size containers move a year, a single agency inspector, working two or three days a week, spot-checks incoming shipments. Agency officials would not permit the inspector to speak with a reporter, but colleagues said her assignment was all but hopeless. ''It is completely ineffective,'' one agency official said.
 Beyond examining only a sliver of the imports, the inspector has few tools in the field to detect problems. The F.D.A., for example, is trying out new equipment at some ports to automatically check if lead is present in food or drugs under inspection. The consumer agency, though, has no such devices in the field. Even if problems turn up, agency inspectors also frequently do not have clear legal authority to seize noncompliant products that violate voluntary standards.
 In New York harbor, a safety commission inspector rarely shows up, said two customs officers who check imports to see if they comply with trade laws. Asked recently when he last saw a commission inspector, Ted Fronckowiak, a customs supervisor, responded: ''It was around December.'' 
 Agents from Customs and Border Protection do what they can to help. But that usually means simply looking for counterfeit products, instead of goods that might not comply with safety standards. And when products are headed for major retailers, like KB Toys, the agents usually figure they are safe. ''We sort of assume they are tending to business,'' said Mr. Fronckowiak.
 Agency officials blame the small staff for the shortage of inspectors. Back in the 1970s, the safety commission had nearly 1,000 employees, which meant workers in field offices could regularly perform spot checks of factories, warehouses and stores and investigate injuries or accidents, said Martin B. Bennett, an inspector in the New York field office from 1973 until 2002.
 ''We could handle a lot of products. We could cover the landscape,'' he said.
 During the Reagan administration, the work force was slashed nearly in half. Under Mr. Bush, it has reached a low of about 420, a 12.5 percent cut since 2002.
 Today, 81 field inspectors work out of their homes, compared with a network of field offices with 133 employees in 2002. While agency records show that they have increased the number of on-site investigations into reported deaths or injuries, in 2006 it took much longer -- weeks or even months -- to determine whether certain products were at fault and to recommend corrective action. The records also show that compliance investigations -- to determine if products on the market meet standards -- dropped 45 percent from 2003 to 2006. 
 Mr. Moore, the commissioner appointed by Mr. Clinton, told Congress in March that it would take years to recover from the loss of employees with expertise in toys, fire-related hazards, drowning prevention and chemical risks, among others. 
 A senior agency official was more blunt. ''It is a complete disaster,'' said the official, one of nearly a dozen who spoke anonymously because the agency had instructed employees not to talk to reporters. ''There is just no other word for it.''
 At the agency's product testing lab, which operates out of a former missile defense radar station in Gaithersburg, Md., the impact of the tight budgets is apparent.
 One lab worker used a magnifying glass and a mechanical stop watch to help conduct a fabric flammability experiment -- the same equipment she has used for three decades. The toy laboratory, down the hall, is an office so cramped that the only space dedicated to a drop test to see if toys will break into small pieces and cause a choking hazard is the spare space behind the office door. ''This is the toy lab for all of America -- for all of the United States government!'' said Robert L. Hundemer, the one agency employee who routinely tests toys, as he held up his arms in the air. ''We do what we can.''
 New Initiatives
 Spurred by the recalls of flawed Chinese-made products, Democrats in Congress, consumer advocates and even industry groups are demanding that the commission be given more power and money to do its job.
 Congress has begun by adopting budgets that allow for modest funding increases for the agency next year. The Bush administration proposed more cuts, which would have forced the agency's staff to shrink still more. 
 Mr. Stratton stepped down last year to take a job as a product safety lawyer in Washington law firm and the president has yet to replace him. In March, Mr. Bush nominated Michael E. Baroody, but he withdrew after lawmakers attacked his record as a longtime lobbyist for the National Association of Manufacturers. The vacancy has prevented any action on proposed regulations or mandatory recalls. The agency, for example, found a Chinese-made A.T.V. unsafe but could not take it off the market.
 Eager for action, several environmental and business groups are pushing for new mandatory standards. The Sierra Club, backed by toymakers, is seeking a ban on lead in children's jewelry, which the agency has agreed to consider. 
 And cigarette lighter manufacturers, finding themselves at a competitive disadvantage to Chinese companies that ignore the voluntary standard, are seeking safety rules for lighters. The consumer commission, though, has declined so far to move ahead, saying the 90 injuries and 10 deaths linked to fires caused by defective lighters were not enough to justify the mandate. 
 Ms. Nord, the acting chairwoman who was appointed in 2005 after working as a lobbyist for Eastman Kodak, has come up with her own reform plan. She wants to gradually increase the cap on civil penalties for violating agency rules to $10 million from $1.8 million. She also wants to give inspectors power to seize or block entry to some unsafe imports at ports.
 The agency is also negotiating with toy makers and officials in China to try to ensure that many more products meet United States standards. They would be inspected overseas by independent testing companies, and the costs would be borne by manufacturers or importers.
 Patrick MacRoy, the director of the Chicago Health Department's lead poisoning prevention program, said any move to strengthen the consumer product agency would be welcome. To date, he said, it has lagged state and local health authorities in the effort to remove lead-tainted children's products from the marketplace. 
 ''It requires a coordinated national response to make sure dangerous products stay off the shelves,'' he said. ''To date, we haven't seen that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SCANT RESOURCES FOR SAFETY TESTS: Robert L. Hundemer, right, the sole full-time tester for toys on the market in the United States, conducts an impact test in a one-room lab while Andrew G. Stadnik, the lab director, watches. Former employees of the Consumer Product Safety Commission say products from China frequently violate standards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: CUTS AT A CONSUMER PROTECTION AGENCY MAY HAVE AFFECTED PRODUCT SAFETY: The Consumer Product Safety Commission suffered severe cutbacks in funding and staffing during the Reagan administration. The commission's funding has not increased significantly since, and the agency has suffered further cuts in personnel in recent years...The number of recalls and hazard reports issued for products, along with deaths and injuries related to consumer products, has also increased in recent years. Consumer advocates say that too many flawed products are in the marketplace because the commission is not doing its job adequately. (Sources: Consumer Product Safety Commission
U.S. International Trade Commission)
 Charts showing the number of recalls in flawed products. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRODUCT LABELING (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); PEDIATRICS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); PETITIONS (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%); COUNTERFEITING (60%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (94%); US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: JOHN W GIBSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



26 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Don't Deny Health Care to Our Kids

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Stiff-Arming Children's Health'' (editorial, Aug. 26):
 The State Children's Health Insurance Program, or S-chip, is a model federal initiative designed to help states provide expanded coverage for children who would not otherwise qualify for Medicaid. Efforts to curtail this successful, cost-effective program are ill conceived and misdirected.
 Since 1997, S-chip has helped reduce the percentage of children without insurance by over a third, while the number of adults without coverage has continued to rise. 
 Despite this accomplishment, nearly nine million children in this country are still uninsured, almost 90 percent of them living in working households.
 We know that S-chip saves money by promoting prevention, early intervention and continuity of care. It is also 31 percent less expensive than comparable coverage from private insurance plans.
 Meaningful health care reform is most likely to begin at the state level. The federal government should encourage the development of innovative programs geared to local needs and economic realities. 
 David Fassler, M.D. Burlington, Vt., Aug. 26, 2007
 The writer is a clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of Vermont.
 To the Editor:
 It is ironic and very sad that an administration that has spoken so vehemently about leaving no child behind when it comes to education would do the very opposite when it comes to health.
 Bohdan A. Oryshkevich, M.D. New York, Aug. 27, 2007
 To the Editor:
 I share your dismay with the Bush administration's misguided policies for uninsured children.
 As a pediatrician, I can testify that timely access to care, vaccinations and management of chronic diseases, like asthma, can only improve the overall health of our country's future citizens. We will also save capital and resources with fewer hospitalizations and emergency room visits.
 Many employers provide health coverage only for employees and not for their dependents, leaving difficult choices for families.
 I would ask why we can provide universal health coverage for our citizens over the age of 65, regardless of their income or wealth, but balk at the notion of extending that safety net to the young.
 Michael Taymor, M.D. Palo Alto, Calif., Aug. 26, 2007
 The writer is a clinical associate professor of pediatrics at Stanford University School of Medicine.
 To the Editor:
 You write, ''The heated political debate over S-chip sometimes leaves the impression that it is a free handout to middle-income Americans.'' 
 This made me think of the mortgage interest deduction, which benefits the entirety of middle-income America (except those who fall prey to the alternative minimum tax's increasing bite). 
 Will that be the next free handout that President Bush clamps down on? Oh no, we can't touch our suburban McMansions. 
 Whatever happened to the country I grew up in? 
 Richard Wolfe Cumberland, Me., Aug. 26, 2007
 To the Editor: 
 Will there ever come a time when people are willing to accept that there are more worthy things to be done than there are resources to do them? 
 The idea that the health care of a helpless class, old or young, is dependent on income is incongruous.
 If health care is the problem you want to solve, require all people to have health insurance, but not from the system of insurance we have today. Create a national health care system, but only for catastrophic costs. 
 Beyond a certain point, the government begins to pick up an increasing percentage of the cost of care. The particular point for each person can be based on income, and can be adjusted. 
 For children and the aged, basic care can be free. Optional care must be purchased. When relieved of these more onerous costs, insurance companies can and should lower rates, but may have to be encouraged.
 There must be limits on what we force one person to do for another, or we will degenerate to doing only what we are forced to do. 
 Don Reid Round Rock, Tex., Aug. 26, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Can someone explain to me why taxpayers pay the health insurance coverage and medical care for administration appointees, the president, vice president and members of Congress, but we cannot support health insurance for children whose families do not earn sufficient income to purchase health insurance for them? 
 This administration and Congress should purchase their own individual health insurance coverage until such time as they can agree on legislation and financing to provide health care for all Americans. 
 If this were the case, there would be new priorities for spending and universal health care coverage in the United States. 
 Barbara Hood Louisville, Ky., Aug. 26, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM GOUGH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); CHILDREN (91%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); WRITERS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); PEDIATRICS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); FAMILY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (74%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); VACCINES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); POLITICAL DEBATES (65%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (55%) VERMONT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



27 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: An S.U.V. Pioneer That Left Before the Party Began

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
THE question of exactly which automaker created the muscle car or just what company gave birth to the minivan may never be answered satisfactorily. The origins of the sport utility vehicle seem to be more certain, however. 
 In 1953, International Harvester, a manufacturer better known for its farm tractors and commercial trucks, introduced the Travelall, a truck-based passenger wagon. True, the Chevrolet Suburban had a similar layout (and a name that dates to the 1930s), but the Suburban didn't acquire four-wheel drive, a hallmark of the S.U.V. category, until 1960; the Travelall was available with four-wheel drive by 1956. 
 Dodge's Town Wagon wasn't offered with four-wheel drive until 1957. Willys, Kaiser and later American Motors sold civilian versions of the Army jeep, but these spartan vehicles were hardly the forebears of the modern soccer-mom S.U.V.
 International's head start was little help in the long run. By the time S.U.V.'s became must-have accessories for suburban families, the company had decided to focus its efforts on commercial vehicles and was long gone from the consumer market. Chevy, Dodge and Jeep still sell utility vehicles, of course, and have earned tidy profits from the category that International defined. 
 Now producing buses, large trucks and diesel engines under the Navistar name, International traces its roots to the invention of the reaper by Cyrus McCormick in 1831. In 1907, the company began production of the Auto Buggy, a versatile passenger car with a removable back seat that let it serve double duty as a pickup. Before long, it was producing the Auto Wagon from the same basic structure, complete with a bed that could haul an 800-pound load. 
 International's century of truck making is chronicled in a colorful tribute published in June, ''Milestones in the Company That Helped Build America'' (Graphic Arts Center Publishing, $60). Historic photographs and reproductions of advertisements illustrate the company's close ties to the farm economy and its contributions to the country's growth; by 1910 International was the fourth-largest company in America by the value of its assets.
 Farm implements and work trucks of all sizes and shapes helped International to prosper. A wide range of specially bodied vehicles, from armored cars to gasoline tankers, were built on International chassis. Mainstream pickups delivered industry's goods, and one of its school buses became an icon of popular culture as the psychedelic Furthur bus of Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters. 
 But taking the reputation for ruggedness to a new market of private buyers was another challenge altogether. With advertising that emphasized four-wheel-drive practicality, International wisely initiated a marketing campaign directed at suburban families rather than at farmers or tradesmen. Unfortunately, the timing wasn't ideal.
 Al Ries, chairman of a marketing strategy firm and a prolific author of business books, has said that ''strategy and timing are the Himalayas of marketing; everything else is the Catskills.'' International's rugged Travelall -- and later the Scout -- may have been capable of tackling the Himalayas, but from a timing standpoint, they never left the Catskills.
 Even if its timing was off, International's strategy was prescient. Travelall marketing campaigns often featured women; later ads pictured preppy couples loading their Travelall with furniture at a New England antiques shop. 
 According to Dee Kapur, president of the International Truck Group at Navistar, no one is really sure how or why the Travelall was approved for production. Although it seems incredible today, there was no market research or shopping-mall focus groups, just a hunch that a need might exist. 
 According to Mr. Kapur, International Harvester thought that it could hit on a winning formula by infusing the DNA of its rugged commercial trucks into a passenger vehicle. And in fact, the Travelall started out as a modified R-Series commercial panel truck with side windows and a new tailgate design. It sold moderately well and was on the market from 1953 until 1975. Its only major restyling took place in 1969. 
 Roughly comparable in size to today's Suburban, the first Travelalls were two-door models. In 1957-61, they had a third door on the passenger side; later, all Travelalls came with four doors. Ansel Adams used one to travel the United States, often photographing his magnificent landscapes from a custom-built platform on the roof.
 Collectors seem to prefer the vintage look of the first series, but it is unusual to see Internationals of any kind at collector car auctions. 
 Charles Kuhn, a Chicago classic-car dealer, said that was a result of rather low survivorship. ''Most probably lived long, hard lives in the hands of tradesmen and outdoors types and were just used up well before there was any thought about collectibility,'' he said. 
 Still, Mr. Kuhn said that a restored Travelall is truly a usable collector vehicle that makes a much different statement about the owner than a new Grand Cherokee or Explorer. 
 The Travelall was followed by the smaller Scout in 1961. The Scout came only with two doors in various hardtop and soft-top configurations. In size and concept, it was similar to the Ford Bronco II of two decades later. But according to Mr. Kapur, everything was built to a more rugged standard, as would be expected from a company building commercial trucks. 
 If a vehicle is a reflection of the owner's personality, then Chris Chelios is the archetypal Scout owner. Mr. Chelios -- a defenseman for the Detroit Red Wings and a durable veteran of 24 N.H.L. seasons -- has owned seven Scouts. He currently has two, one of which stays at his off-season home in California. 
 Mr. Chelios enjoys their tough and trouble-free nature. ''I can leave them sitting for a long time, and they always start right up,'' he said. ''The one in California hasn't had its top up in 12 years. Their design makes them better-looking when the top is down.'' 
 Mr. Chelios said that finding parts was not an issue. Although Navistar no longer supplies them, various specialists have filled the void.
 According to Mr. Kapur, International's dealer network, and a recession, were responsible for the company's decision to leave the passenger vehicle market. Scouts and Travelalls were sold alongside commercial trucks through International Harvester's dealers. Most were in rural areas rather than in the urban and suburban markets that International sought to crack. 
 In addition to its large trucks, Navistar today sells the XT series of gargantuan pickups for extra-heavy-duty service. These could provide the platform for a supersize S.U.V.
 Mr. Kapur said that it was not impossible that Navistar might return to claim part of the market it pioneered. ''If we do, it will certainly be something different and worthy of our heritage in the truck industry.'' 
 International Harvester's departure from the consumer truck market in 1980 came years before vehicles like the Ford Explorer and Jeep Grand Cherokee changed the suburban landscape. Had it been able to hold out a while longer, International, a company with a real heritage and a history in rugged commercial trucks, would probably still be a player in an S.U.V. market successfully populated by such unlikely truck makers as Porsche and BMW. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JUMBO: The XT series of monster pickups went on sale in 2004
RUGGED: An International S-110 pickup of 1955-56, left
the 1909 Auto Wagon, right
the original R-110 Travelall of 1953-54, below
PSYCHEDELIC: Furthur, the converted countercultural bus of Ken Kesey's Merry Pranksters
SPORTY: A 1966 advertisement promoting the Scout, above
 a streamlined tanker from 1939, left. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (89%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); SUBURBS (76%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%)

COMPANY: GRAPHIC ARTS CTR PUBLISHING CO (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



28 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Its Mill Days Gone (and Not Coming Back), a Small Town Tries Plans B and C

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BERLIN, N.H., Aug. 27 

 BODY:
For generations this was a city of mills, its skyline dotted with smokestacks rising from the banks of the Androscoggin River, its economy aligned with the fate of the paper industry.
 Nearly all the paper mills have closed, taking thousands of jobs, many residents and a sense of identity from this city of 10,000 in the northernmost reaches of New Hampshire.
 Plagued by high unemployment, vacant buildings and a recent string of fires, Berlin (pronounced BUR-lin) is trying to reinvent itself, betting that a new 1,280-bed federal prison and New England's first all-terrain vehicle park will be the economic shot in the arm it desperately needs. 
 The decline of a mill town is a familiar story in New England, but Berlin is hoping the two very different projects will help spur growth, bringing back residents, start new businesses and introduce tourists to the region.
 ''We're trying not to put all our eggs in one basket,'' Mayor Bob Danderson said. 
 Construction of the prison is expected to begin this fall, and dozens of people showed up at a recent job fair to find out about prison-related employment. Some 300 to 400 people are expected to work on the construction. About 300 permanent jobs will open up once the prison is built, and officials see a boon for local restaurants and merchants.
 The A.T.V. park is expected to hold about 136 miles of trail and numerous campgrounds when it is completed in the next five years. About 20 miles are open now on the 7,500-acre tract, most of which the state bought from a logging company for $2.1 million in 2005. The state has estimated the park will eventually generate $694,000 in annual revenue.
 ''People see things coming down the pike,'' said Mark J. Belanger, manager of the Berlin office of the New Hampshire Department of Employment. ''For the first time in years there's hope.''
 The state offers financial incentives to businesses that move to Berlin and surrounding Coos (pronounced CO-os) County. A third of the county's population lives in Berlin, which is 115 miles from Concord, the capital, and about 180 miles north of Boston.
 But there is concern about the direction the city is taking. Berlin already has a state prison, and there is opposition to the federal prison. 
 A more controversial but much smaller project is a proposal to build a 50-megawatt power plant that would run on wood chips on a mill site in downtown Berlin. Mr. Danderson said the private development project would stabilize the city's industrial tax base while creating about 40 jobs. 
 Business owners, however, think the project, known as a biomass plant, represents backward thinking and will stifle the city's growth. 
 ''We were the community where it stank. We got an inferiority complex, and it still exists,'' said Richard Poulin, a gift shop owner and former state representative who worries that the plant may prevent shoppers from coming downtown. 
 Norman Charest, the city director of economic development, said Berlin needed to look beyond industry. 
 ''I think biomass serves a purpose,'' Mr. Charest said, ''but not in downtown Berlin. Being a mill city has had some negative consequences because it stifled creativity, it stifled entrepreneurship and we developed a culture around that mill that now bites us in the backside.''
 Mr. Charest said some people would always see Berlin as a place where only mills and heavy industry will thrive, a view he said would only keep the city's economy stagnant. 
 ''What makes this such a challenge,'' he said, ''is that we're having to change the culture of the community, and the culture of the region,'' Charest said. A visible sign of that change is to take place on Sept. 15, when some of the old smokestacks are to be dismantled.
 The loss of the mill industry has also left the city with a glut of housing. Vacant buildings abound, and the city is starting to crack down on absentee landlords. A string of fires occurred, leaving homeowners and renters on edge, and Berlin has also been attracting people from around New England who are looking for cheap housing but not necessarily employment.
 ''The low cost of housing has attracted many people of lesser means, without jobs and on disability and welfare,'' Mr. Danderson said. ''Hopefully all this will change some of that tide.'' 
 While it seems everyone admits there are obstacles to overcome, there is agreement that for the first time in a long time residents are more optimistic about the city's future. ''The mountains cause the tourists, the tourists bring in dollars, and tourism brings in business and employers like us who want to hire the smart people who are here and the smart people who move up here because they like to hike,'' said Katie Delahaye Paine, who moved her communications research and public relations company, KDPaine and Partners, to Berlin from Durham, N.H. 
 Claudette Boutin, 56, was raised in Berlin, left and moved back with her husband a few years ago. 
 ''The prison and the A.T.V. park are a start,'' Ms. Boutin said. ''I think this place really wants to change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anastasia Bunker, 6, in the shadow of a defunct paper mill in Berlin, N.H., a struggling city of 10,000 that has pinned its lagging economic hopes on a new prison and a 7,500-acre A.T.V. park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LORI DUFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Berlin is seeking to trade its industrial image for tourism. Map showing the area of Berlin in New Hampshire. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PRISONS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); MAYORS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (67%); BIOMASS (62%); POWER PLANTS (62%); PLANT CLOSINGS (58%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); CONCORD, NH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



29 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Suffolk Loses Ground In '06 Census Report

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
SUFFOLK COUNTY dropped to 29th in median household income in 2006, from 21st in 2005, on a national list of large counties in a 2006 census report released last week, and its reported poverty rate jumped.
 Nassau County, however, climbed four spots in the ranking of income to 10th, and its poverty rate was unchanged. Nassau had the highest median income among counties in New York in 2006, at $85,994. 
 The rankings come from the American Community Survey, which reported results for 786 counties with populations of more than 65,000. 
 The import of the new numbers was not fully clear last week, because changes in the way the Census Bureau reports data make it hard to compare 2005 and 2006 directly. But economists said the numbers might reflect a growing strain among families who have moved to the periphery of the region's suburbs.
 ''The outlying suburbs generally have the youngest families, the most first-time home buyers, and these are people who are operating closest to the financial margins,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, chief economist for the Long Island Association, a business group.
 In a year in which the national poverty rate dropped for the first time in President Bush's tenure, Suffolk's rate climbed to 6.5 percent, from 4.8 percent in 2005. The 2006 numbers at the county level include people living in institutions, like group homes and treatment centers, who were not included in 2005, and it was unclear what impact the change might have had.
 Nassau's poverty rate was unchanged at 5.2 percent. 
 ''Nassau has a large proportion of mature households in their prime earning years,'' Dr. Kamer said. ''These people have more discretionary income.''
 Several counties on the edges of the region, like Warren in New Jersey and Putnam and Rockland in New York, experienced increases in reported poverty rates and apparent decreases in median income. The income changes in most cases were within the margin of error of the census surveys, meaning that there is a possibility that the changes were a result of chance.
 Putnam's median income, $81,907, ranked 14th nationally in 2006, down from 12th in 2005. Rockland's income, $76,710, was 30th, down from 18th in 2005. 
 But, like Nassau, Westchester's income ranking climbed, to 35th from 37th. Its median income was $75,472. Westchester's poverty rate also declined, to 7 percent from 7.9 percent.
 ''The demographic segment that's growing fastest is the baby boom echo, the group in their 20s,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. ''Those are young households, and they're probably below the median, so they may be bringing the median down in some outlying areas.''
 New York City's poverty rate was virtually unchanged at 19.1 percent. 
 The county with the highest median income in the country was Fairfax in Virginia, at $100,318, and Loudoun County in Virginia was second, at $99,371. The two counties, both suburbs of Washington, were reversed in 2005, with Loudoun at the top. 
 Five of the top 10 were suburbs of Washington and four were in the New York metropolitan area. Three counties in New Jersey had higher incomes than Nassau: Hunterdon, with a median income of $93,297; Somerset, at $91,688; and Morris, at $89,587.
 The only county in the top 10 outside the Washington and New York metropolitan areas was Douglas County, Colo., a Denver suburb where the median income was $92,125.

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''Income in the Area'' Median household income in 2006 for counties in the metropolitan area and their rank among the 786 largest U.S. counties. (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); POOR POPULATION (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



30 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Rich Get Richer While Poor Hold Their Own

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
THE trip from Bridgeport's poor neighborhoods to the mansions of Greenwich crosses a canyon of income inequality rivaled by few places in the country, new census data show.
 Fairfield County has one of the sharpest contrasts between rich and poor in the nation, a vast gap in fortunes exceeded only by a few other places, led by Manhattan but most of them poor counties in the deep South and far West, according to measures that the Census Bureau released for the first time last week.
 The highest-earning fifth of households in Fairfield made $362,103 on average, 22 times as much as the bottom fifth, whose average was $16,019, according to the Census Bureau. The top 5 percent in Fairfield made $746,726, on average, the highest in the country. 
 In much of the country, wide gaps between rich and poor occur because poverty there is extreme. For instance, Apache County, Ariz., which contains Navajo and Apache Indian reservations, was the second highest in income inequality, and the income of the bottom fifth of households was $2,835. In Tuscaloosa County, Ala., which ranked seventh, it was under $6,000.
 But in the New York metropolitan region, and in the Northeast in general, inequality is driven by the great wealth of the top-earning group. Manhattan had the most unequal income distribution in the country, with the top fifth making 40 times the average of the bottom fifth. Fairfield ranked 14th in the country, while Essex County, N.J., which includes Newark, ranked 12th. Westchester was 29th. 
 ''In general, inequality has gotten worse not because people in the middle or bottom have lost, but people at the top have gained enormously,'' said Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell University's Johnson School of Management, a contributor to The New York Times and author of ''Falling Behind: How Rising Inequality Harms the Middle Class.'' 
 Some economists say the inequality in the region is a natural outgrowth of the area's heavy reliance on property taxes to finance local government, because people with means move to places that have better services, paid for by higher taxes, stratifying income and privilege by geography.
 ''If you start with a system of heavy reliance on the local property tax and have mobile populations, you're going to end up with geographic distributions that are unequal,'' said Frank S. Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''People in jurisdictions where there's not a lot of money are left to fend for themselves.''
 Some of that imbalance is addressed by state aid to education and by court-ordered equalization of spending on schools. In Connecticut, an infusion of new state dollars to local school district this year actually had the effect of shifting the proportion of state aid to rich suburban districts, who were demanding tax relief. Urban districts have filed a lawsuit to get more state money.
 In New Jersey, Newark and some other poor urban school districts now spend as much per pupil as the richest districts because of a court order. And Newark's poverty has actually eased recently, according to the new census data; it posted one of the biggest gains in median income of any city in the country. 
 But inequality in close geographic proximity leads to other potential problems, economists say. Spending by the wealthy not only makes the price of things higher for others, but also creates pressure to spend. 
 ''The context is always local, so if you live in Nepal, the kind of house in which you feel it's O.K. to live is vastly different from some other place,'' Dr. Frank said. When someone lives in a better place nearby, he said, people feel the pressure to spend on better housing. 
 The spectacular gains at the top create pressure all the way down the income ladder to spend more, which puts more people under financial duress, Dr. Frank said. 
 ''We looked at county data from 1990 to 2000, and the counties where income inequality grew the most, even after controlling for other factors, had higher increases in divorce rates and bankruptcy filings, and in the proportion of those taking long commutes,'' Dr. Frank said.
 There are also studies that show that people's health is worse in places with high income inequality, even after controlling for the bad health effects of being poor. ''Being in the bottom of a group is just stressful,'' he said.
 Apart from the issue of inequality, the new census figures show that Connecticut remains in third place in the nation in median income, at $63,422. New Jersey, with median income of $64,470, relinquished the distinction as the state with the highest median income, falling to second behind Maryland, with median income of $65,144, in 2006.
 Four of the top 10 counties in the country in median income are in the New York metropolitan area, including three in New Jersey: Hunterdon, with median income of $93,297, was fourth; Somerset, at $91,688, was sixth; and Morris, at $89,587, was seventh.
 Nassau County ranked 10th and, at $85,994, had the highest median income among counties in New York in 2006. Fairfield's median income was $76,671.

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''Income, and Income Disparity, in the Area'' Median household income in 2006 for counties in the metropolitan area and their rank among the 786 largest U.S. counties. The disparity between the wealthy and poor was especially wide in some counties. The wealthiest 20 percent in Fairfield County earned 23 times more than the poorest 20 percent, for example. (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (91%); CENSUS (91%); COUNTIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (68%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



31 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: How Eminent Should Domain Be?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
YORKTOWN
 NICHOLAS J. BIANCO has a strong sense of place, having sampled many local landscapes and ending up comfortably in a town where he can often breathe country air. The son of Italian immigrants, he grew up in the 1950s in the jostling streets of the Bronx, and, after marrying, warily walked a cop's beat in his next home, Yonkers.
 For the past 35 years, he has watched Yorktown peel off its lingering pretensions of butter churns and blacksmiths and slip on the trappings of a standard-issue suburb -- shopping centers and subdivisions included. 
 The United States Supreme Court ruled in 2005 that a government could use eminent domain to seize private property for economic development, including commercial uses like malls. (Some of the property for the new headquarters of The New York Times was acquired through eminent domain.) Mr. Bianco felt the ruling was wrong, even un-American, violating the near-sanctity of a place of one's own. So did fellow townsfolk who asked him, as a member of the Town Council: ''Will you ever do that?''
 ''Not on my watch,'' he promised.
 Last January, he went further and engineered passage of a law barring the town from condemning private property for commercial purposes, while allowing it for traditional public uses, like the building of roads, sewers and schools. A vague declaration that a neighborhood is blighted or dangling a promise of jobs and taxes could not be used to expropriate a home or shop for a developer's benefit. 
 ''It's not the government's right to say that you've got to move, you, a person who lived here and paid taxes here,'' Mr. Bianco, 63, said in a Panera Bread store. ''My belief is the individual is just as important as the mass. That's our Constitution. Every citizen is important.''
 He compares limits on property expropriation to the limits he faced as a police officer (he rose to detective sergeant, and now works as an investigator for Westchester's Legal Aid Society.) ''You can't just go up and search somebody,'' he said. ''We protect the individual's rights.''
 ''Let's face it,'' he went on. ''It's usually done to the lower socioeconomic parts of the population -- the people who can't fight it, don't have the means. It's not happening on one-acre homes in Scarsdale. And that's distasteful. You're picking off the weak.''
 No other Westchester municipality has followed Yorktown's example, according to Valerie O'Keeffe, president of the Westchester Municipal Officials Association, even though there remains tension in Port Chester years after a developer, armed with the village's power of condemnation, cleared away 400 businesses along Main Street for a waterfront mall containing a Costco and Loew's multiplex. 
 New Rochelle's mayor, Noam Bramson, says that eminent domain should be used for development, though ''judiciously and only when the broad public interest demands it.'' Forswearing it entirely, he said, would make it difficult to assemble land to revitalize downtowns, forcing cities and towns to build on their outskirts. The new law in Yorktown, which used eminent domain more than three decades ago to spruce up Commerce Street with new businesses, passed without much of the fury that has sometimes characterized the nationwide debate. Linda Cooper, the town supervisor, said that while she supported the law to calm anxieties, she thinks it is superfluous. The town's business district, she said, has been thoroughly developed, with residential and commercial zones marked and no room for growth. Besides, she said, the Town Board could revoke the law in the future. 
 But for many of Yorktown's 37,000 residents, the idea that their part-time representatives -- people who roll out their garbage on pickup days just like they do -- could take away a fellow citizen's home chafed. ''We have a small-town mentality,'' Tony Romano, an architect who has lived here since 1969, said as he ran into Mr. Bianco outside Panera's. ''We don't want the government giving the store away.''
 Mr. Bianco took a visitor to Front Street, where among a UPS. warehouse, a school bus lot, a car wash and other industrial-grade properties, Bruno Cusentino's modest ranch house stood out as if it had been attired for the wrong party. He fears that the house and its land could be candidates for condemnation.
 Mr. Cusentino's son, Bruno Jr., a barber, said the family would be willing to listen if some company wanted to negotiate a fair price. But having the government take it on behalf of a business seemed unfair to him. ''It's common sense,'' he told Mr. Bianco.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY LAW (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); LEGAL AID (70%); RETAILERS (70%); RETAIL BAKERIES (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: PANERA BREAD CO (65%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (57%)

TICKER: PNRA (NASDAQ) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (65%); NAICS445291 BAKED GOODS STORES (65%); NAICS311811 RETAIL BAKERIES (65%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



32 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2699 words

HEADLINE: Can the Mortgage Crisis Swallow a Town?

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Maple Heights, Ohio
 TAMMI and Charles Eggleston never took out a risky mortgage, never borrowed more than they could afford and never missed a monthly payment on their neat, three-bedroom colonial in the Cleveland suburbs. But that hasn't prevented them from getting caught in the undertow of the subprime mortgage mess now submerging this town. 
 Over the last 18 months, the Egglestons have watched one house after another on their street, Gardenview Drive, end up foreclosed and vacant. Although lawns are still tidy and empty homes are not boarded up and stripped as they are in inner-city Cleveland, the Egglestons say Maple Heights no longer feels safe after dark. Nor do they have the confidence they had when they moved in a decade ago that this is the ideal place to raise their 6-year-old twin girls, Sydney and Shelby. So, in May 2006, they put their home on the market in order to move closer to Mrs. Eggleston's parents in another middle-class Cleveland suburb, Richmond Heights. 
 They have had no takers. Although they lowered the asking price to $99,000 from $109,000, no one has even come to look at it in more than six weeks. ''My heart panics every time I drive down the street and I see another for-sale sign,'' says Mrs. Eggleston, pointing past the placards in front of her porch to others that dot surrounding yards like lawn furniture. ''Some people on the street couldn't pay, so they just left. The competition to sell is just ridiculous.''
 It is a scene being repeated in cities and towns across America as loans that were made to borrowers with little or no credit history, many of whom could not even afford a down payment, fail in ever-growing numbers. It is also a story of how local economic trends are intersecting with national politics, with local foreclosures drawing the attention of Democratic presidential candidates, including John Edwards and Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio. 
 On the Republican side, President Bush announced on Friday several steps aimed at alleviating the impact of the subprime crisis on homeowners. In a Rose Garden appearance, he ruled out a federal bailout, citing both ''excesses in the lending industry'' and unduly optimistic homeowners who took out ''loans larger than they could afford,'' as reasons for the mortgage woes.
 Indeed, what was once a problem confined mostly to economically struggling areas is quickly becoming a national phenomenon. Last year, there were 1.2 million foreclosure filings in the United States, up 42 percent from 2005, according to RealtyTrac, a firm that analyzes such data. At current rates so far this year, RealtyTrac expects foreclosure filings to hit two million in 2007, or roughly one per 62 American households -- a rate approaching heights not seen since the Great Depression. 
 Analysts also say that the fallout from mortgages gone bad is spreading well beyond borrowers now in default. It has begun to engulf middle-class communities like Maple Heights, where nearly 10 percent of the houses -- or 910 properties -- have been seized by banks in the last two years. And it foreshadows what could lie in store if mortgage holders default on what the Federal Reserve conservatively estimates to be $100 billion in risky subprime loans. Many of these loans were made in 2005 and early 2006, when standards were at their most lax and cities like this were blanketed with aggressive pitches from mortgage providers. 
 ''I don't think we've hit bottom,'' says Michael G. Ciaravino, the mayor of Maple Heights. ''My fear is that foreclosure rates could go to double where they are today.''
 IN terms of the subprime mortgage meltdown, Ohio has been among the hardest-hit states, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. In Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland and surrounding suburbs, roughly 30 percent of subprime mortgages are either delinquent or in foreclosure, says Jim Rokakis, the county treasurer.
 But this leafy community of bungalows and small family homes built after World War II could be described as its epicenter. Already, Maple Heights, with a population of 27,000, ranks No. 1 in Cuyahoga County in foreclosures per capita, according to Policy Matters Ohio, a nonprofit research group. Ranked by ZIP code, the number of foreclosures here puts Maple Heights in the top one-half of 1 percent nationally, RealtyTrac says.
 Mayor Ciaravino has already had to shut his town's two swimming pools, cut the ranks of police officers and firefighters and eliminate services like free plowing for senior citizens with snow-covered driveways. 
 With so many houses vacant, says Michael H. Slocum, the finance director of Maple Heights, ''it puts a big question mark out there; historical collection patterns for taxes are becoming less reliable.'' 
 In fact, when the town made its annual assessment on homes for garbage collection last month, receipts came in 15 percent below projections, forcing a 50 percent rate increase.
 ''There is truly a cascading effect,'' says Mr. Ciaravino, 43, who grew up in Maple Heights and was a local prosecutor before being elected mayor four years ago. Sitting in his 1950s-style wood-paneled office in City Hall, he says that ''the folks living next to these empty homes get discouraged, and middle-class people are leaving.''
 For a mayor presiding over a town in crisis, Mr. Ciaravino doesn't seem angry, but beneath an affable exterior is barely concealed frustration that the danger of subprime debt became a national issue only after Wall Street began to wake up to the threat this summer. ''We've been warning of problems for years,'' he says. ''I'm just a small-town mayor. Where was the foresight?''
 That same question is echoing among politicians with constituencies far larger than Mr. Ciaravino's. In July, Mr. Edwards came to Cleveland to tour a neighborhood hammered by foreclosures. Two months earlier, Mr. Kucinich took reporters on a walking tour of the neighborhood where he spent part of his childhood, Slavic Village, pointing out boarded homes and criticizing what he called ''predatory lenders.''
 What's more, Cleveland is key in a crucial battleground state in the next presidential election, so it is a good bet that more candidates from both parties will be here touring neighborhoods dotted with foreclosed homes, much the way Ronald Reagan went to the South Bronx in 1980 to highlight what he called the failure of Jimmy Carter's economic policies. 
 ''There's plenty of blame to go around,'' warns Mr. Ciaravino.
 TWICE a week, the East Side Organizing Project, an advocacy group in an industrial neighborhood midway between downtown Cleveland and Maple Heights, is host to what its executive director, Mark Seifert, calls ''the cattle call.'' The group helps mortgage holders keep their homes, and these afternoon sessions are when new clients first go over their cases. 
 Until this year, he says, about 80 percent of the people who came for help lived in the city, with the balance from close-in suburbs like Maple Heights. Today, the mix is split evenly between city and suburb. 
 So, in a windowless conference room in late August, as ceiling fans buzz overhead, James Jones, an intake specialist, tells newcomers: ''We're in the business of trying to save your home. The information we get from you is what we use to negotiate.''
 The group uses other resources, too -- like a bit of street theater to coax recalcitrant banks into renegotiating loans going sour. Mr. Seifert and his colleagues have scattered plastic sharks on the lawns of regional Countrywide Financial Corporation managers, and organized protests outside their offices. ''We have cellphone numbers of the folks in the ivory tower making decisions, and we can call them at 1 a.m.,'' Mr. Jones promises the group.
 It usually doesn't come to that. The project holds conference calls with Countrywide, CitiFinancial and others, mediating between the lender and individual mortgage holders. In successful renegotiations -- which happen in about 85 percent of the cases the project handles -- Mr. Seifert and his team persuade lenders to accept lower interest rates, or even a reduction in the total value of the loan, instead of foreclosing. 
 Lenders have incentives to negotiate. In addition to the plastic sharks and bad publicity, Mr. Seifert says, they can avoid the loss that comes with the seizure of a property. ''Let's say the loan is for $100,000,'' he explains. ''The banks know that if the house ends up getting foreclosed, they'll only walk away with $50,000 or $60,000.''
 If foreclosures ultimately harm underlying property values and cause losses to both lender and borrower, why are they still so prevalent?
 ''Some lenders understand; others don't,'' Mr. Seifert says. ''Countrywide doesn't.'' Out of 120 recent mortgages cases with Countrywide, Mr. Seifert says, 15 have resulted in work-out deals, only two of which he said were ''very good.''
 One of those loans belonged to Audrey Sweet, a Maple Heights resident and a first-time home buyer who borrowed $118,000 from Countrywide in late 2004 without putting any money down. Because of Mrs. Sweet's poor credit history and lack of assets, the adjustable loan's rate was 10.25 percent, but she says she was told that if the couple ''just proved themselves,'' they could quickly refinance at a lower rate.
 Mrs. Sweet says Countrywide advised her that the monthly property tax bill would be $100, but it turned out to be $230 and the Sweets quickly fell behind. Countrywide stepped in and paid $3,493 in back taxes in March 2007, and the next month raised the Sweets' monthly mortgage bill to $1,713 from $1,055.
 That was far beyond the budget of the couple, so Mrs. Sweet turned to the East Side group in April. She says Countrywide finally budged in late July, the day before she testified before Congress at a Joint Economic Committee hearing about her experiences with Countrywide. Working with a local lender, Third Federal Savings and Loan, the Sweets managed to refinance the loan at a fixed rate of 7.2 percent, and the original $1,055 monthly payment now covers the property taxes the Sweets couldn't afford before. 
 Countrywide says it has tried to work with East Side but ''has been met with nothing but derision and grandstanding,'' adding that it does not believe ''these efforts help to save anyone's home from foreclosure.'' Nationally, Countrywide has completed 35,000 successful renegotiations so far this year, including 50 in Cleveland in a two-day period last week, according to Rick Simon, a Countrywide spokesman.
 ''We have made a tremendous effort to avoid foreclosures and work with customers,'' he says.
 It is also clear that the Sweets bear some responsibility for their predicament. ''I do blame myself a little bit,'' Mrs. Sweet acknowledges. ''I feel dumb.'' She explains that she was focused on the monthly payment when she borrowed from Countrywide, not the interest rate or taxes due. ''Once we got the loan documents at the closing, I just came home and stuck them in a drawer.''
 Although the Sweets' story has a happy ending, some neighbors have not been nearly as lucky. Three houses on their street have gone through foreclosure, including one home three doors down, where their neighbor's possessions were dumped onto the lawn. ''And I live on the better end of town,'' Mrs. Sweet says.
 AS he drives through the Slavic Village neighborhood, passing homes stripped of aluminum siding, copper pipes and other remnants, Marc A. Stefanski says, ''There are still S.& L.'s and banks that lend with a conscience, but, man, you got to find them.'' 
 Mr. Stefanski should know: as the chief executive of Third Federal Savings and Loan, a Cleveland thrift that his parents founded in 1938, he has an unusual perspective on the mortgage mess. Unlike most of his competitors, Mr. Stefanski resisted the urge to cash in on the subprime lending boom.
 His bank never offered no-money-down loans, piggyback mortgages, exploding adjustable-rate mortgages or the other financial exotica that ultimately tripped up the Sweets and millions like them. Third Federal pays its loan officers salaries, rather than commissions, so there is no incentive to go for volume. Even more remarkable is that Third Federal holds onto a sizable portion of its mortgages and keeps them on the books, rather than selling them to Wall Street to be sliced and diced into asset-backed securities owned by investors on the other side of the globe. 
 The result is that unlike many other mortgage lenders, Third Federal has a vested interest in making sure its loans do not go bad, so foreclosure is a last resort. 
 ''The model has shifted,'' says Mr. Stefanski. ''It became very lucrative. But it was totally irresponsible for the sake of greed.'' Not that Mr. Stefanski didn't notice the profits to be had. ''Absolutely, we were tempted,'' he acknowledges. ''We arm-wrestled and talked, but we decided not to change the model. We felt it wasn't the right thing to do.''
 Mr. Stefanski is no social worker. He lives in an affluent suburb of Cleveland and earned nearly $2 million last year. But he does not hide his feelings about just what went wrong in places like Maple Heights. ''The whole system was based on raping the public,'' he says, matter-of-factly. ''Not everyone should own a home -- just those who can afford it.''
 Third Federal has a branch in Maple Heights, Mr. Stefanski says, and in the past, ''we owned Maple Heights.'' But in recent years, he says, ''The predators just jumped on it.'' 
 Third Federal's share of the mortgage market in northeastern Ohio fell to a low of about 11 percent by 2001 from more than 30 percent in the early 1990s.
 Tammi Eggleston also watched the more aggressive lenders move in, albeit from a different vantage point. ''They were canvassing the neighborhood,'' she recalls. ''Letters in the mail, knocking on the door, calling on the phone. They were everywhere.''
 Now, with other lenders pulling back and some fighting to stay in business, Third Federal has increased its share of the mortgage market to 24 percent, picking up mortgages like that of the Sweets and earning praise from community activists like Mr. Seifert. Perhaps even more significantly, Third Federal has created a program for more risky borrowers like the Sweets, with required classes so that mortgage holders understand exactly how their loans work and what they will owe.
 WHY has the impact of the subprime meltdown been so much more severe in communities like Maple Heights than in other parts of the country? Mr. Rokakis suggests that it is a combination of Cleveland's underlying economic problems and a lack of the steadily appreciating housing prices that other areas enjoyed. That shut off a crucial safety valve -- in other regions, overwhelmed borrowers could often turn around and sell their homes for at least a slight profit. 
 In Maple Heights, the situation is now reversed: with so many properties on the market, home values are dropping, and some delinquent mortgage holders owe more than their homes could now fetch in a sale. ''The tax base is eroding,'' says Mr. Ciaravino, the mayor. He warns that property values may soon have to be reassessed downward, further crimping tax revenue and raising the heat on Maple Heights' remaining property owners. ''This has affected virtually every aspect of community life, like increasing the rate of transient students in the schools,'' he says.
 All of these factors are reasons the Egglestons want to move, but they are not sure they will be able to do so anytime soon. ''We're torn,'' says Mrs. Eggleston, who works as an executive assistant at a Cleveland nonprofit organization. ''You can see and feel the change in the neighborhood. We're really not sure what to do.''
 Mr. Ciaravino is torn, too. He understands the Egglestons' fears but needs middle-class families like them to stay if Maple Heights is to have a decent future. ''We're not giving up the fight here,'' he says, with a trace of weariness in his voice. ''It's frustrating because this could have been avoided. We as a nation are capable of much better than this.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Charles and Tammi Eggleston, with their daughters, Shelby and Sydney, have been trying to sell their home in Maple Heights, Ohio, since May 2006. Nearby houses sit vacant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 1)
Members of the East Side Organizing Project help mortgage holders work out new terms with lenders.
Mark Seifert, left, executive director of the East Side Organizing Project, with Nathaniel Marshall during a meeting with homeowners.
Michael Ciaravino, mayor of Maple Heights, has had to cut services.
 Unlike most of his competitors, Marc Stefanski, chief of Third Federal Savings and Loan, resisted the urge to cash in on the subprime lending boom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); TRENDS (76%); CITIES (76%); BAILOUTS (68%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (68%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (61%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

PERSON: DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); JOHN EDWARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



33 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: Admit It. You Love It. It Matters.

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
DEPENDING on who is doing the talking, fashion is bourgeois, girly, unfeminist, conformist, elitist, frivolous, anti-intellectual and a cultural stepchild barely worth the attention paid to even the most minor arts. 
 With Fashion Week beginning in New York on Tuesday -- the start of a twice-yearly, monthlong cycle of designer presentations on two continents and in four cities that will showcase hundreds of individual designers -- it is worth asking why fashion remains the most culturally potent force that everyone loves to deride. 
 ''Everyone'' is not here intended to imply the deeply initiated, those pixie-dust people for whom the shape of a dress or the cut of a sleeve is a major event. There is certainly a place for those types, whether they are cuckoos like the late fashion editor Diana Vreeland (who once wrote, ''I'm told it's not in good taste to wear blackamoors anymore, but I think I'll revive them''), or extravagant mythomaniacs like John Galliano, the Dior designer -- who plays a pirate one season, a gypsy the next -- or even the young celebrity brand pimps who would probably be offering paparazzi a lot more gratuitous crotch shots if designers didn't provide them with free clothes. 
 No, everyone means the rest of us, those who scorn fashion outright and those who don't but who nevertheless have the uneasy sense that this compelling world of surfaces and self-presentation is unworthy of regard. 
 ''There is this suggestion that fashion is not an art form or a cultural form, but a form of vanity and consumerism,'' said Elaine Showalter, the feminist literary critic and a professor emeritus at Princeton. And those, Ms. Showalter added, are dimensions of culture that ''intelligent and serious'' people are expected to scorn. 
 Particularly in academia, where bodies are just carts for hauling around brains, the thrill and social play and complex masquerade of fashion is ''very much denigrated,'' Ms. Showalter said. ''The academic uniform has some variations,'' she said, ''but basically is intended to make you look like you're not paying attention to fashion, and not vain, and not interested in it, God forbid.''
 When Valerie Steele, the director of the museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York, declared an interest at Yale graduate school in pursuing the history of fashion, colleagues were horror-struck. ''I was amazed at how much hostility was directed at me,'' Ms. Steele said. ''The intellectuals thought it was unspeakable, despicable, everything but vain and sinful,'' she added. She might as well have joined a satanic cult. 
 And that, substantially, is how a person still is looked at who happens to mention in serious company an interest in reading, say, Vogue.
 ''I hate it,'' Miuccia Prada once remarked to me about fashion, in a conversation during which we mutually confessed to unease at being compelled by a subject so patently superficial. 
 ''Of course, I love it also,'' Ms. Prada added, and her reason said a lot about why fashion is a subject no one should be ashamed to take seriously. ''Even when people don't have anything,'' Ms. Prada said, ''they have their bodies and their clothes.''
 They have their identities, that is, assembled during the profound daily ritual of clothing oneself; they have, as Colette once remarked, their civilizing masks. And yet, despite its potential as a tool for analyzing culture, history, politics and creative expression; as a form of descriptive shorthand used through all of written history (including the Vedas, the Bible and the Koran); as a social delight, fashion is just as often used as a weapon, a club wielded by those who forget that we are saying something about ourselves every time we get dressed -- not infrequently things that fail to convey the whole truth.
 Why else was Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign moved to attack the fashion critic of The Washington Post for attempting to read the candidate's clothes? The editorial blitz that followed Senator Clinton's outraged response to some blameless observations about a slight show of cleavage on the Senate floor was instructive, as was Mrs. Clinton's summoning up of feminist cant about the sexism of focusing on what a woman wears to the exclusion of her ideas.
 But clothes are ideas; to use a fashionism -- Hello! Scholars like the art historian Anne Hollander have spent decades laying out the way that costume serves to billboard the self. One would have thought that few people understand this truth as well as the woman occasionally known as Hairband Hillary, who, after all, assiduously recast her image from that of demure and wifely second-banana to power-suited policy wonk, dressed to go forth and lead the free world.
 Politicians are far from the only people who act as though the concerns of fashion are beneath consideration. When the Italian film legend Michelangelo Antonioni died recently, film critics and obituary writers went into raptures about his classic ''L'Avventura,'' a movie few people outside of cinema studies classes are likely, at this point, to have seen. Some remarked that the Antonioni of that early film had already begun losing his edge by the time he detoured into films like ''Blowup,'' whose plot revolves around the fashion world.
 Never mind that ''L'Avventura'' is a sharply stylish movie and that in Antonioni's hands wardrobe does the work dialogue would for more talk-prone directors. Absent plot, clothes are used by Antonioni to frame the mood of upper-class anomie and to make graphically his distaste for the Italian neorealists, who all seemed to have costumed their movies using the same set of Anna Magnani's hand-me-downs.
 Like most Italians then and now, Antonioni had a sympathy for the role clothes play in human theater. And while ''Blowup'' is set in a fashion (or ''mod'') milieu, it is less about fashion, really, than about an accidentally photographed murder and the instability of what is seen and known. Even 40 years on, the film's surfaces remain so stylishly assured and so cool they automatically arouse intellectual suspicion. Trusting in appearances, Antonioni always seemed to suggest, may be a losing proposition. 
 But investing in them, as Ms. Steele said, can be far worse. 
 ''In our deeply Puritan culture, to care about appearance is like trying to be better than you really are, morally wrong,'' she said. 
 It is to be driven by the dictates of desires and not needs. And yet the appetite for change so essential to fashion is a more culturally dynamic force than is generally imagined. Luxury, and not necessity, may be the true mother of invention, as the writer Henry Petroski observed. This proposition is an easier sell when the luxury in question is an iPhone, and not a Balenciaga handbag, but the same principles hold. 
 In places like Silicon Valley the quest for newer and better stuff results in technology patents, a clear measure of economic robustness. Fashion innovations may be harder to patent or track, but it seems obvious that huge sectors of the New York City economy would churn to a halt if all the Project Runway types suddenly stopped migrating here in the belief that the world could be changed by the sort of innovation inherent in how a garment is cut.
 ''Fashion is so easy to hate,'' said Elizabeth Currid, a professor at the University of Southern California's School of Policy, Planning and Development and the author of ''The Warhol Economy: How Fashion, Art and Music Drive New York City'' (Princeton University Press). 
 ''Cultural industries like fashion are sometimes seen as something only the skinny girls in high school think about,'' said Ms. Currid -- and less often as a fascinating field for cultural study and also the bill-payers keeping thousands of seamstresses, cutters, pattern makers, truckers, real estate brokers and publicity hacks employed. 
 Analyzing Bureau of Labor statistics, Ms. Currid arrived at the not-altogether-startling conclusion that the densest concentration of fashion designers in the United States is in New York. A glance at the roster of foreign designers showing at New York Fashion Week, Sept. 4 through 12 -- Russia, Turkey, India and Brazil are represented -- suggests a good reason for that. 
 ''Even if, on some level, fashion is fantasy, the concentration of events that go into producing it and the resulting social spillover,'' as Ms. Currid said, can result in a huge cumulative economic advantage for a city. While the seasonal shows in the tents in Bryant Park, with their enforced passivity and aura of feminine spectatorship, lend themselves to derision, enforcing the sense that all those fops and dandies and flibbertigibbets, all the socialite geishas and second-rate celebrities and editorial priestesses are little more than idlers and dupes, big business goes on. Odds are that the same journals whose critics score easy points off fashion are economically propped up by the life-support provided by advertising for dresses and bags and shoes. 
 One of the most startling findings of her research, Ms. Currid said, was how powerful something as superficial, girly, bourgeois, unfeminist, conformist, elitist and frivolous as fashion can be in creating the intangible allure that attracts money, talent, beauty and enterprise to cities. 
 ''How does one place make itself different from another in a world where there's a Starbucks on every corner?'' she asked. ''People have to believe that this is the place to be.'' Fashion has that effect. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WE ARE WHAT WE WEAR: Some people forget that we are saying something about ourselves every time we get dressed, whether at home or at a London show, above, in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS JACKSON/GETTY IMAGES)
 VANITY OR ART: A Dior show in Paris in February. New York Fashion Week begins on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); LITERATURE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); LITERARY CRITICISM (50%); CULTS & SECTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



34 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 6252 words

HEADLINE: The Former-Insurgent Counterinsurgency

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
Checkpoint 20 was the last piece of American-controlled terrain on the road to Hawr Rajab and our linkup point with Sheik Ali Majid al-Dulaimi. Before heading out, Lt. Col. Mark Odom surveyed the terrain from the rooftop of the nearby American combat outpost, a heavily sandbagged structure surrounded by concrete walls to guard against car bombs. A dusty town on the southern outskirts of Baghdad, Hawr Rajab had a strategic importance that belied its humble appearance. It straddled the infiltration routes used by Sunni militants to circumvent Lion's Gate, the grandiloquently named system of checkpoints, canals and other obstacles designed to stop the suicide attacks that had brought havoc to the Iraqi capital. 
 Hawr Rajab had been under the dominion of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, a predominantly Iraqi group that took its inspiration from Osama bin Laden and whose senior echelons are filled by foreign jihadis. The group's fighters in Hawr Rajab were armed with AK-47s, machine guns, rocket-propelled grenades, mortars and a seemingly endless supply of homemade improvised explosive devices (I.E.D.'s), many of which were concocted from urea fertilizer and nitric acid. They were hard to detect and yet powerful enough to destroy an armored vehicle. Odom's soldiers had never driven into the town without encountering some form of ''contact,'' as his soldiers matter-of-factly referred to the clashes. 
 This day in early August, however, was to mark a turning point. Just a month earlier, the Americans acquired a new ally: Sheik Ali, a leader of the Dulaimi tribe. In an extraordinary development, a growing number of Sunnis who had sympathized with the insurgency or even fought American forces were now more concerned with removing Al Qaeda from their midst -- so much so that they had chosen to ally with their supposed occupiers. Such expedient confederations were emerging across Iraq. They began last year when Sunni tribes and former insurgents in western Anbar Province began cooperating with American forces, cropped up later in the violent Diyala Province and even emerged in the sharply contested Ameriya neighborhood in Baghdad. 
 The sheik was relatively new to the game. Like many Sunnis, he insisted that Iraq had been more secure under Saddam Hussein. He told me he had no formal military credentials: his father paid a bribe so that he could avoid military service. With his penchant for track suits, the chain-smoking sheik seemed a most unlikely partner for Odom, the cerebral commander of the First Squadron, 40th Cavalry Regiment. But Ali had a powerful motivation to work with the American troops. Al Qaeda militants had killed his father, kidnapped his cousin, burned his home to the ground and alienated many of his fellow tribesmen by imposing a draconian version of Islamic law that proscribed smoking and required women to shroud themselves in veils.
 Ali had already provided valuable intelligence on Al Qaeda operatives and had been recruiting members of his tribe for what was to be a new, American-backed security force. Al Qaeda's hold on the town had been weakened, and the sheik was one reason why. The trip to Hawr Rajab was to be a further demonstration that the group's days there were numbered. 
 Still, a series of broader concerns lingered in the background. Could the Americans' success with the Sunni tribes in the provinces of Anbar and Diyala be transferred to other areas of the country? Even if the sheik delivered, did he and the Americans share the same long-range vision for Iraq? If they did, would the Shiite-dominated government in Baghdad accept the emergence of new Sunni forces just outside the capital? Were the new local Sunni forces the key to stabilizing Iraq -- or the prelude to a fiercer civil war? 
 The American strategy to stabilize Iraq is outlined in a several-inches-thick document called the Joint Campaign Plan. The stated goal is to achieve ''localized security'' (that is, in Baghdad and other critical parts of Iraq) by the summer of 2008 and to establish ''sustainable security'' nationwide by the summer of 2009. War critics at home have bemoaned the two-year time line, but meeting the objectives in such a short period would be an extraordinary accomplishment. The mission has been made all the more complex by the fact that the United States' adversaries in Iraq are well aware that the ''surge'' of American reinforcements has placed a considerable strain on the Army and Marines and will probably run its course by early 2008. Yet the surge has also provided a chance to forge alliances between American forces and Sunnis who were fed up with Al Qaeda militants and uneasy about the Shiite-dominated government. The additional troops have enabled the United States to push into Sunni areas where American forces had not operated for many months and to stay there rather than sweeping through and leaving. 
 Before leaving Baghdad to embed with the troops, I stopped by the fortified Green Zone to talk with Maj. Gen. Paul Newton. A British officer with eight tours of duty in Northern Ireland, Newton recently joined the staff of Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq, and headed the Force Strategic Engagement Cell with Donald Blome, a senior aide to the U.S. ambassador, Ryan C. Crocker. It was part of the determined effort to exploit the willingness of local Sunnis to work with the American-led coalition. To my ear, it sometimes sounded as if the command had an assistant secretary of war for peace. Yet this effort was being carried out with hardheaded practicality and was potentially of enormous significance. The basic strategy was to persuade sheiks and former insurgents to submit lists of potential recruits for local security forces. These new recruits would be fingerprinted, photographed and given retina scans; all this would be entered into a database to help monitor the new forces. 
 Once accepted, the recruits would be organized into local neighborhood watches. (American commanders call these Concerned Local Citizens, or C.L.C.'s.) Every member could use the one AK-47 that each Iraqi household is allowed to retain but would not be issued any arms by the American military. The longer-range plan was to run the volunteers through a brief training program and institutionalize the arrangement by securing the Iraqi government's agreement to transform them into the local police. Recruits would be vetted by the American authorities and the Iraqi government. But having taken up arms against the American-led coalition in the past -- or even having American blood on your hands -- was not necessarily a barrier. 
 ''I draw the line at war crimes,'' said Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the No. 2 commander in Iraq, meaning that no one who has committed war crimes could join the force. ''Local commanders can and will draw a more stringent line if they believe it is necessary. They understand the dynamics of their area better than I do. We reconcile at the end of any war. If we are able to buy time from the bottom up, that is a start. That will help us buy time for the government of Iraq to continue to mature. As those pockets of security get larger and larger, and we stitch them together, that buys time.'' It was hoped that under the program Shiites, too, would eventually be recruited, but so far there had been little interest. 
 The fact that the patience of American politicians was running out had at least concentrated Sunni minds. For many Sunnis, the American troops were the most reliable protectors they had, and the Americans were looking less like long-term occupiers with each passing day. The development of new Sunni security forces was a way to blunt any Al Qaeda and Shiite militia countersurge when the Americans eventually pulled back. 
 That was the vision, and the relative success of recruiting efforts among the Sunnis had been the most favorable, if unexpected, development since the surge began. Executing the policy, however, has been extremely tricky. In effect, the American command has been moving on two parallel and possibly conflicting tracks. One represented a decentralization of power, as the American military organized Sunnis into local security forces. The second track was to centralize power in the Shiite-dominated government in Baghdad and to strengthen national institutions like the largely Shiite Iraqi Army. 
 The key to squaring the circle is to establish a link between the new Sunni forces in the field and Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki's risk-averse government. At first, the American effort to work with the tribes in Iraq's Anbar Province was not much of an issue; Iraqi officials were happy to see them take on Al Qaeda militants and did not seem overly concerned about the role of the tribes in a remote western region that had no valuable resources and few Shiites. But the closer the strategy came to Baghdad, the more anxious the Iraqi government seemed to be about new Sunni groups, and the process has sometimes been a matter of two steps forward, one step back. In Baquba, the capital of Diyala Province north of Baghdad, where I spent much of June, more than a thousand Sunni locals, including former insurgents, had joined the ''Baquba Guardians.'' They have not hesitated to challenge Al Qaeda, which, while just one of many insurgent organizations, has been linked to spectacular car bombs and other suicide attacks that have fanned sectarian tensions in Baghdad. 
 But the project ran into resistance from local Iraqi officials after some Guardians tried to take the next step and join the police. Capt. Ben Richards, the commander of Bronco Troop, First Squadron, 14th Cavalry Regiment, who was the first American officer to organize Sunnis in Baquba, told me that the Shiite provincial police chief had used ammunition as a means of political control. When the province received a large quantity of ammunition from the Interior Ministry, the police chief distributed 40,000 rounds to the predominantly Shiite police force in the nearby town of Khalis. Much of it is believed to have found its way to the Shiite Mahdi Army of Moktada al-Sadr. Richards said the Sunni police in eastern Baquba had received nothing.
 To oversee the engagement process, the Maliki government recently established a nine-member committee for national reconciliation. The panel is headed by Safa al-Sheik, the deputy national security adviser and a former Air Force engineer during Hussein's rule; it includes Bassima al-Jaidri, a Maliki aide with a reputation for sectarianism, along with security and intelligence officials. When I met with Safa in his office in Hussein's old Military Industrialization Ministry, he insisted that the reconciliation panel had made progress in the month it had been in existence. American officials say it has approved 1,738 of the 2,400 Sunnis who had been put forward to serve as policemen in the town of Abu Ghraib, just west of Baghdad. Still, Safa acknowledged that many Iraqis are worried that the Americans might be inadvertently establishing new Sunni militias that would rise up against the authorities in Baghdad.
 Newton, the British officer who was a leader of the Force Strategic Engagement Cell, had the job of bringing the Iraqi government along. ''We don't dress it up,'' he told me. ''Insurgent groups fear that if they cooperate, they will be targeted by the government of Iraq, and the government fears that the insurgent groups will turn on them after Al Qaeda has been dealt with. So that is the risk. We are not minimizing it. The best way to deal with that risk is to hook these groups close to you. By doing that, you bring them under a degree of control. You have the opportunity to learn how they work, which amounts to an insurance policy of future reasonable behavior.
 ''In Northern Ireland, reconciliation occurred in 1998, but we probably missed at least two earlier opportunities to resolve that conflict,'' Newton added. ''In Iraq, there is huge risk, and various people argue against taking those risks. What we are trying to explain to the government of Iraq is that this is one of those moments in a military campaign that it is sometimes difficult to realize it when you see it.''
 When Colonel Odom's squadron deployed in October of last year to Sunni territory south of Baghdad, there seemed to be little opportunity to work with the locals. His unit was assigned about 40 square miles, which included the Arab Jabour region, southeast of the capital, and a largely rural area to the west. It was a region of fish farms, narrow roads, palm trees and tall grasses -- terrain that provided good hiding places for the enemy and that restricted the mobility of armored vehicles. There were no locals willing to ally themselves with the soldiers, no police officers and only a small number of Iraqi Army troops, who were largely confined to checkpoints. There were no State Department-led Provincial Reconstruction Teams -- the bands of advisers who were supposed to help jump-start the Iraqi economy and build government institutions. The region was a mini-failed-state in the midst of a broader sectarian war.
 Nor were there many American troops. Odom's cavalry squadron, including support units, has 550 soldiers. The squadron's operations south of Baghdad were what the military calls ''economy of force,'' which is a polite way of saying that it has few troops to carry out a demanding mission.
 When I first arrived at the squadron's headquarters at Forward Operating Base Falcon, there were already eight ''Denali heroes,'' as the unit described the soldiers who were killed in action. They included three combat engineers who were killed in May when an I.E.D. destroyed a Buffalo -- one of the most heavily armored vehicles, used by explosive ordnance units -- and two soldiers who died when a suicide bomber slammed an explosive-laden vehicle into the barriers surrounding Patrol Base Dog, an outpost that has since been abandoned, and collapsed the soldiers' living quarters. 
 Odom understood the complexity of the situation and appeared to be soldiering on with grim determination. He seemed the very model of the scholar-warrior. He attended Middlebury College and later completed a master's thesis on the Balkans conflict at King's College, London. Most of his career had been in Ranger and airborne infantry units. During the 2003 invasion of Iraq, he served as operations officer for the 173rd Airborne Brigade, which parachuted into the Kurdish-controlled sector of northern Iraq. 
 Odom's office at Forward Operating Base Falcon contained an impressive library of national security literature, including an inscribed copy of Zbigniew Brzezinski's ''Second Chance,'' Raphael Patai's tome on ''The Arab Mind'' and a well-thumbed copy of Samuel P. Huntington's ''Political Order in Changing Societies,'' which created a furor when it was published during the height of the Vietnam War. (Huntington argued that the establishment of order was a paramount goal for developing nations, perhaps even more important than whether the society was democratic.) Odom, 42, was private about his family history, but he bore an obvious resemblance to his father, retired Lt. Gen. William E. Odom, a director of the National Security Agency under President Reagan, military aide to Brzezinski during the Carter administration and former military attache in Moscow. Colonel Odom grew up in a household in which Russophiles, political scientists and prominent journalists held forth at the dinner table on world events. One of the most vociferous critics of the war, General Odom wrote an op-ed column for The New York Daily News on Iraq earlier this year, headlined ''Know When to Fold 'Em.'' Colonel Odom was more circumspect about his views. But citing Huntington, he saw the effort to secure Iraq and encourage political reconciliation as very much an uphill struggle. 
 The colonel also had a copy of Jean Larteguy's out-of-print classic, ''The Centurions.'' The novel, about French paratroopers who served in Vietnam and later fought in the battle of Algiers, has a memorable passage in which one officer says to another: ''We no longer wage the same war as you, colonel. Nowadays it's a mixture of everything, a regular witches' brew . . . of politics and sentiment . . . religion and the best way of cultivating rice, yes, everything, including even the breeding of black pigs. I knew an officer in Cochin-China who, by breeding black pigs, completely restored a situation which all of us regarded as lost.'' 
 With insurgents rife in the area, Odom's fight in Hawr Rajab and the Arab Jabour had elements of conventional war, but it needed a witches' brew of force and politics to succeed. Odom's soldiers made headway in neutralizing the local Al Qaeda leadership during the first half of the year, and the emergence of Sunni security organizations in Anbar and other parts of Iraq provided a model for the residents of Hawr Rajab. 
 But an infusion of troops in June also facilitated a new approach: the surge policy brought a thousand-soldier-strong battalion. Commanded by Lt. Col. Kenneth Adgie -- an effusive New Jersey native who played fooball for Trenton State -- the First Battalion, 30th Infantry Regiment had fought its way south on the bomb-infested routes to Arab Jabour. By the time I arrived in July, they had lost six soldiers, including a tank driver who died of heat exhaustion as the temperature soared to more than 115 degrees. The unit set up tactical headquarters along the Tigris, which I visited before making my way to Odom's squadron, and called in a series of artillery and air strikes against local Al Qaeda militants. 
 Adgie had made contact with some of the local sheiks and a former Iraqi general who had served in Hussein's army, and they had provided several scouts to help the Americans sort out the militants. But the effort to recruit a more substantial volunteer force had moved slowly, with the local sheiks insisting that the Americans provide arms and Adgie explaining that recruits needed to be assembled, vetted and trained before the Americans could work with them and that under no circumstances could the U.S. military give them weapons. 
 The battalion's effort nonetheless had a positive effect for Odom's squadron. With less ground to cover, the unit was able to concentrate on Hawr Rajab and to develop contacts in the town. The fighting in Arab Jabour also had the effect of displacing some insurgents to the west, including militants who imposed a severe version of Islamic law and who used the region as a transit point for sneaking explosives into Baghdad. The Sunni residents of Hawr Rajab were soon confronted with American forces who were becoming regular visitors -- and Al Qaeda insurgents from out of town who were more ruthless than the homegrown militants. 
 In early July, Capt. Chad Klascius, the commander of Apache Troop and one of Odom's officers, received a call from Sheik Ali, who requested a meeting. A West Point graduate, Klascius spent several years before his Iraq duty as a member of an Opfor unit, the opposing force in the Army's war games in Europe. The young officer had played the role of Islamic insurgent, complete with a suicide belt. Now for the first time he was going to meet with a former insurgent who wanted to make common cause with American soldiers. 
 The sheik, by his own admission, had led somewhat of a carefree life during the Hussein years. But he wanted payback for the murder of his father, and he wanted to restore his tribe's authority in Hawr Rajab. The insurgents' leaders there -- unlike the foreigners who dominate Al Qaeda nationally -- were Iraqis. According to local residents, they had grabbed control of one of the town's few resources: the local gas station. Fuel from the Oil Ministry was trucked to the station several times a month, though the station was rarely open, and when it was, it sold gas for an inflated price. The station, the townspeople complained, was little more than a fuel distribution point for the militants and a revenue-raising operation for their cause. 
 Each side was apprehensive about a planned midnight meeting at the sheik's home. Ali wanted to bring five armed bodyguards. The Americans were worried that they might be led into an ambush and warned that any males with weapons would be shot on sight. It was agreed that the sheik could have only unarmed protectors. To protect the sheik against retaliation, the Americans concocted an elaborate ruse. A platoon of soldiers cordoned off the home as if it were a raid, pulled Ali outside and then went into the home seemingly to conduct a search. 
 Once the meeting began, the sheik came to the point. According to Klascius, Ali acknowledged that he had been a supporter of Jaish al-Islami, the Sunni insurgent group. But that was in the past. He wanted Americans to set up a permanent base in Hawr Rajab and to drive Al Qaeda out. He was eager to participate in the offensive, but needed several thousand dollars in financing. He wanted a local police station to be set up in the town. He asked the Americans to distribute food and toys to the town's residents to encourage them to support his effort to work with the Americans. And he wanted Klascius to give him a pistol to symbolize the new relationship. 
 Klascius insisted that the sheik provide several names to show that he was serious. He gave them the names of two members from his own tribe who lived just a few houses away. (The Americans later took them into custody.) He also gave them a 17-page, blue spiral notebook in which the sheik and his military adviser had recorded information about Al Qaeda's activities in the town. 
 With a limited number of troops, the cavalry squadron was not prepared to set up a permanent presence in the town. Nor would the sheik receive his pistol. But the Americans promised there would be regular patrols and were able to distribute reward money for tips on the whereabouts of Al Qaeda militants. It was clear that the sheik's resources were limited: one of his scouts wore shoes held together with Scotch tape. 
 Soon a fellow sheik came forward: Sheik Mahir Sarhan Morab al-Muini, a leader of another tribe in Hawr Rajab, who had been in prison for two years for hiding a cache of weapons. In a region of shifting alliances, Mahir was also looking to re-establish his authority in the town. Since Klascius had only 71 soldiers to deal with 8,000 townspeople and several hundred insurgents, the assistance the sheiks were offering was vital. It was not long before the sheiks and the Americans were planning joint military operations. The Americans called in an air strike on an ice factory that the militants used for their meetings, and Ali and his men raided it the next day. 
 The first large-scale mission was set for late July. Ali and several dozen of his men would try to establish security in Hawr Rajab by going after the Al Qaeda militants. American Apache helicopters would provide air support. Ali ignored one piece of advice from the squadron's intelligence team: not to give his fighters advance word of the operation. The day before the operation was supposed to take place, Al Qaeda attacked. They had their own moles among Ali's ragtag band of fighters and mounted a pre-emptive strike. 
 When the insurgents attacked, high winds had grounded the American choppers, forcing the sheik and his men to fight without the promised air support. After taking the risk to reach out to the Americans, Ali found he was essentially on his own. As gunfire echoed through the streets, the Iraqi commander at Checkpoint 20 funneled ammunition to Ali. But the supply soon ran out, and Ali's fighters began to pull back. 
 One of the sheik's aides threw his sister and her young children in a van and raced past Al Qaeda fighters toward the checkpoint. The militants machine-gunned the vehicle. The woman and two of her children had their wounds treated at the checkpoint and then were driven by Iraqi soldiers to a hospital in the Sunni town of Falluja, 40 miles west of Baghdad. (The hospitals in the Iraqi capital, while much closer to Hawr Rajab, are controlled by the Shiite-dominated Health Ministry, and Sunnis are terrified of being treated there.) Ali finally beat a retreat, heading south with his fighters to Yusifiya, where he linked up with Sheik Abd al-Sattar, a prominent tribal leader who was working with the Americans in Anbar. It was a low point for the new alliance. The American military was very powerful, but there were times, Ali told me somewhat ruefully, when it was slow to act. 
 The day after the Al Qaeda victory, Captain Klascius carried out a series of raids to beat the militants back. The Americans' relationship with Ali was also helped by an unexpected turn of events the following week. The sheik was taken into custody at a National Police checkpoint near the squadron's headquarters at Forward Operating Base Falcon. The Shiite-dominated police force was on the verge of turning Ali over to the Mahdi Army, an all-but-certain death sentence, when he reached the Americans on his cellphone. The soldiers from Klascius's Apache Troop rushed to the scene. There was a tense standoff as the soldiers kept their weapons at the ready until the police handed the sheik over to his American protectors. 
 Much in Iraq was not the way it seemed. The former Sunni insurgent had become the Americans' most trusted partner in Hawr Rajab, while many of the United States' nominal allies in the Iraqi police were untested and untrustworthy. 
 By the beginning of last month, the alliance had been rebuilt, and it was time to resume the battle for Hawr Rajab. On Aug. 1, Ali led 29 fighters to Checkpoint 20 around midnight. The fighters were fingerprinted, and retina scans were taken so the biometric information could be entered into an intelligence database. To identify them as ''friendly,'' the soldiers gave them numbered orange reflector belts, the kind used by traffic crossing guards. Ali, Mahir and Odom huddled inside a nearby building to discuss the tactical situation in the town, while an American soldier and a newly minted concerned citizen exchanged past military experiences in a Tarzan-like amalgam of English and Arabic.
 On the morning of Aug. 4, the Americans were to drive downtown. The day before, Klascius sketched out the plan. Two platoons, including combat engineers with heavily armored mine-detection vehicles, would clear the road to the town. Then two more platoons would head to the town square with shipments of food and a psychological operations unit. Fliers would be distributed urging the people to take back their community from the Al Qaeda militants by cooperating with the American-backed sheiks. The captain added in an offhand manner that every mounted operation the troop had conducted had encountered enemy fire. Ali's men were to let the Americans know if I.E.D.'s had been seeded along the route, and Mahir's men were to alert them if Al Qaeda fighters were active in the town. 
 We pulled out from Forward Operating Base Falcon at 5 a.m. and arrived at Checkpoint 20 only to see that Odom was already there. Ali and a couple of his men were there as well, prepared to make a triumphant entry. While the colonel and I waited for the ''route clearance'' team to sweep the road of I.E.D.'s, a frown crossed his face. The radio traffic reported that the operation had had its first casualty. Specialist Jose Collazo was driving a Husky mine-detecting vehicle -- he had already found one I.E.D. that day -- when he hit a buried bomb. The driver's cab was thrown 50 feet. Collazo had an open head wound and had been rushed back to a sand lot in front of Checkpoint 20 to await a medevac helicopter. 
 The militants had resorted to the same sort of chemistry that Timothy McVeigh used in the Oklahoma City bombing. Odom explained that they had combined fertilizer and nitric acid, boiled the concoction and then extracted a white explosive substance that was laid out to dry. The explosive was very powerful, and the American military had already given the weapon a name: HME, for ''homemade explosive.''
 The fact that there was only one route into town must have simplified the enemy's task. But soon word came that the ordnance team had cleared the route. The soldiers lumbered into the armored Humvees, wearing their standard kit: Kevlar helmet, body armor, ballistic glasses and Nomex gloves to protect against fire. Ali, who was wearing a track suit with ''England'' emblazoned across the front, had no protective gear as he settled into the cab of the lightly armored truck carrying the food. Several Iraqi soldiers also made the trip. 
 With the wind whipping the sand, the helicopters were grounded again. We would not have Apache gunships above us, and any medical evacuation would need to occur by ground. As we headed to town, I glanced up at our gunner and saw he was wearing a small, black memorial bracelet for one of the soldiers killed in the April suicide bombing at Patrol Base Dog. It was one way soldiers have been honoring their fallen comrades and is increasingly common. Klascius observed that the stores were shuttered. That was a bad sign. The residents tended to clear out when trouble was expected. 
 After we reached the town center, the Humvees and the food truck formed a protective circle. The soldiers jumped down and began scanning the streets for militants. Ali got on a loudspeaker to urge the residents to come get the food. A few residents nervously approached. A soldier waved a metal detector over them to check for bombs after they entered the perimeter. But the citizens did not seem threatening, and the soldiers were preoccupied with the threat of snipers. The soldiers handed out several bags of rice, some cans of tomato paste and powdered milk. 
 As I was scribbling some notes, there was a boom in the distance. Klascius ran over to me and instructed me to get back in the Humvee. ''The colonel's been hit,'' he said. 
 We drove back toward Checkpoint 20 and came upon a terrible sight. The twisted wreck of a Humvee was in the middle of the road. Combat medics were hovering over two soldiers lying in the grass. One was the turret gunner. The other was Odom, whose face was swathed in bandages. The wounded soldiers were lifted by stretcher into waiting Humvees and driven back. 
 Another Humvee, meanwhile, drove down from Checkpoint 20 to guard our flank. Suddenly there was a massive blast. Much of that Humvee disintegrated into fragments that rained down around us. Nobody could survive such a blast. The radio traffic reported three killed in action. 
 We were trapped on a ''Tier 1 I.E.D. site''-- a stretch of road chockablock with buried bombs -- with no air cover. There was no heading back to town: the soldiers who had stayed there had been attacked by small arms, and two had been wounded. They would need to be evacuated as well. Yet heading back to Checkpoint 20 was still problematic. A Humvee started to make its way, only to set off another bomb. This blast, at least, was not catastrophic. The front end of the vehicle had been blown off, but there were no casualties. 
 As we sat in the captain's Humvee and waited to make our return on the road, Ben Lowy, an experienced combat photographer, asked me for a pen and wrote his blood type on each of his Nomex gloves. With no Apaches on call, the soldiers called in a ''show of force'' mission. A jet flew by and bombed an empty field to show the adversary the Americans could call in an air strike if necessary. It was not clear if the enemy was still around to absorb this message -- or if he would care. 
 We had no choice but to leave. A few vehicles made their way back, and we followed. After driving a short stretch, our vehicle stopped by the side of the road, and Captain Klascius walked back to supervise the scene. There were vehicles to recover and the grim business of collecting human remains. Several soldiers took black bags out of the Humvees and began to walk the fields in search of body parts. The road was a tableau of destruction. There were a soldier's soft cap, a can of chewing tobacco, part of a notebook and the twisted end of a gun. 
 ''I need another body bag,'' a soldier called out. 
 A trooper asked if he had found another body. 
 ''Don't know,'' the first soldier replied. 
 The three Iraqi soldiers who came with the mission -- cigarettes in their mouths, cradling their weapons -- pointed out some of the remains to the American soldiers but refrained from picking up the pieces. Ali sat in the front cab of the food truck, staring straight ahead.
 As the soldiers went about their task, Klascius raised his weapon and peered through the scope at two men peering at our position from the roof of a building in the distance. ''Best 1,200 bucks I ever spent,'' he muttered. Since his troops had been supplied with only 10 high-powered scopes, he had bought his own. Klascius got on the radio and reported that the stricken convoy was being watched. The Americans needed to get back before they were attacked again. 
 When we got back to Checkpoint 20, the outpost was silent. The soldiers had lost three of their comrades. Another eight had been wounded. The enemy had suffered no casualties. Food had been given out to 40 residents. 
 At Forward Operating Base Falcon, the commanders imposed ''River City'' -- they shut down the unclassified Internet connection the soldiers used to chat with their families and to blog so that word of the casualties would not spread until the next of kin were notified. That night, I went to the airfield at the base for the ''angel flight.'' A formation of soldiers lined up and saluted as the caskets of the three dead soldiers were carried to the tarmac so they could be flown away. 
 It was later determined that the militants had laid a defensive belt of seven I.E.D.'s. Hidden wires enabled them to activate the bombs so that they would not be blown up by civilian traffic. After being activated, the bombs were set to explode when the vehicles rolled over pressure-plate detonators. It was an ingenious and low-cost defense, and that day they had owned the road. It was, Klascius observed, his most violent day in Iraq, but it was but one day in a long war and not the end of the battle for the town.
 I stayed in contact with Colonel Odom's squadron and received an update two weeks later. Ali and Mahir had stayed in the fight and recruited an additional 25 fighters. The squadron had killed two militants and detained 22 more, including some who were believed to have been involved in the Aug. 4 attack. Some $2,800 in reward money had been paid for useful tips. The Concerned Local Citizens had detained more Al Qaeda militants -- and had lost one of their own men, who was captured and beheaded. The sheiks were planning continued operations to clear the town. 
 From Arab Jabour, Colonel Adgie reported that 170 concerned citizens had been recruited by the former Iraqi general who had allied himself with the Americans. Adgie's battalion had continued to press the fight against the militants but paid a high price on Aug. 11 when one soldier was shot and killed by a sniper; four others died when they went to search a nearby building that turned out to be rigged with bombs. Still, Adgie said he thought the effort to build a local security force was making headway. ''We are still in the crawl stage, but I believe we're on the right track,'' he told me in an e-mail message.
 I tracked down Specialist Collazo, the Husky driver, who was an outpatient in Texas and sounded as if he was recovering well. As for Odom, he had returned to his home base at Fort Richardson, Alaska. His left arm and his nose were broken, and he had suffered a concussion. Despite the Hawr Rajab setback, he said that the cooperation with the sheiks had the potential to reduce the attacks on his soldiers and stabilize the town. 
 But he was philosophical about the way ahead. The political gridlock at the national level had made the recruiting and organizing of Sunni groups around Iraq all the more important. But what would happen once bands of concerned citizens were organized, trained and equipped? If the Iraqi government embraced the strategy, the effort to work with tribal leaders and local insurgents could lead to a broader political reconciliation. ''At the local and national level, it could provide impetus to force some reconciliation,'' Odom observed. ''In other words, the Sunnis could come to have some sort of legitimacy through us.'' 
 But if the effort to forge a link between the central government and the new security groups falters, the United States might simply be laying the groundwork for a heightened round of civil strife. The Iraqi government and the security forces it controls might become alarmed if Sunni security organizations were to sprout around the country and begin to network, and Shiite militias might also respond by stepping up their attacks. 
 ''We have not made political progress at the national level,'' Odom said. ''We have taken on a decentralized effort with the concerned citizens at the local level and somehow hope that we can tie it back into the local and national government at the end of the day.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); RELIGION (70%); FERTILIZERS (66%); SMOKING (63%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); BRIBERY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



35 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS

 BODY:
New Opportunity For Activist Investors
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Will the Credit Crisis End the Activists' Run?'' (DealBook, Aug. 26): 
 I do not, as the column indicates, lament the current state of affairs, nor do I plan to ''recast myself yet again, this time as a 'distressed activist investor.' '' Quite to the contrary, I think that the credit crisis will create opportunities for activists knowledgeable in bankruptcies and distressed debt. And few will dispute that I have already been ''cast'' in the role of activist in this area over the last decade. 
 My second complaint concerns the idea that activists' real mission is to ''have the company sold, break the company up or push it to take on debt so it can buy back stock or issue a big dividend.'' Activists' most important mission, if they do their jobs properly, should be making boards and shareholders cognizant of management's shortcomings and their fiduciary responsibilities to do something about them. 
 Carl Icahn
 New York City, Aug. 28
 What Regulation Can Do
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''A Psychology Lesson From the Markets'' (Economic View, Aug. 26), in which Robert J. Schiller contended that the Federal Reserve could not control the speculative cycle among home buyers: 
 It is not just a question of what the Fed can do, but also of sound public policy. Congress can control reckless lending by setting limits on lenders' interest rates -- including those on credit cards as well as mortgages -- and by barring misleading practices. The Fed can prevent ''irrational exuberance'' in the stock market by setting limits on speculative margin purchases. 
 Wise regulation can avoid a great many dangers to our economy. 
 Emil Scheller
 Fort Lee, N.J., Aug. 26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (68%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



36 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: For Struggling Tribe, Windfall Has a Dark Side

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: KLAMATH, Calif. 

 BODY:
You do not have to drive far into the town of Klamath to see the poverty and the potential of the Yurok Indians, the largest tribe in California and one of the poorest.
 Just off Highway 101, past an understocked grocery and an overstocked bar, sits a row of ragged mobile homes behind a chain link fence topped with barbed wire. Beat-up cars sit along the gravel drives, as does the occasional bored teenager.
 There are also signs of change. A handsome tribal headquarters and a crisp new gas station anchor the reservation. And slot machines are on their way, 99 of them approved by the state, expected to be housed in a new building near tribal headquarters. 
 But in many ways, the Yurok people have already hit the jackpot. This spring, the Department of the Interior paid the tribe $92.6 million in logging proceeds, a figure roughly six times the tribe's annual budget. 
 Yet even the silver cloud, it seems, has a dark lining. The money, which had been held in trust by the government for nearly two decades, has sharply divided the Yurok people, pushing them into two passionate camps: those who prefer long-term community projects and social programs and those who want the money handed up now. 
 It is a dispute that has echoed through meetings and conversations for months, and one that has upset elders who watched the tribe battle all manner of enemies -- settlers and neighbors, white men and fellow Indians -- only to find themselves fighting one another.
 ''We're a culture people, we're a fishing people and a ceremony people,'' said Raymond Mattz, 64, a member of the tribal council. ''But it's a rough time for us because everybody is so poor, and the money is making everybody a little goofy.'' 
 On one side of the issue are leaders like Maria Tripp, the tribal chairwoman, who favors programs to address the myriad problems the tribe has struggled with over the years, including high unemployment, flagging fishing, drugs and alcohol, and the dwindling of lands, traditions and hope.
 ''We're not going to get another $92 million dropped in our lap,'' Ms. Tripp said. ''This is an opportunity for us.'' 
 On the other, some here feel that the money could -- and should -- be used to alleviate the day-to-day problems for hundreds of the tribe's 5,000 members. 
 ''We've got tribal members right now who have been waiting all their life,'' said Willard Carlson Jr., 57, a tribe member. ''And the thing about it is, it's not the tribal government's money. It's the people's money.'' 
 The settlement was a result of a 1988 act of Congress that established the Yurok reservation. The law provided payment for the pre-1988 sale of logs on their land, some 63,000 acres about 325 miles north of San Francisco that snake along the fog-shrouded, and once salmon-rich, Klamath River. To gain the timber payment, the Yurok leadership only recently agreed not to sue the government in regards to the 1988 law, said Douglas Wheeler, a lawyer with Hogan & Hartson in Washington who is representing the tribe.
 The issue of how to spend the money is up for a vote this fall, and the tribal council is required to put forth a plan. But at a tribal meeting in early August, several speakers were already expressing impatience about the pace of progress. At the annual salmon festival on Aug. 19, the tribe's biggest event of the year, one parade float included a large sign reading: ''Lump sum for all tribal members -- 100 percent of settlement, 100 percent of interest!''
 Various per capita proposals being floated include adults-only allotments, as well as payments for all members, plans that could result in payments of roughly $15,000 to $20,000.
 That sort of opinion infuriates tribe members like Tom Willson, who works at the town fishery and said the settlement should be ''seed money, to buy some of our lands back, to run programs, to ensure that the Yurok people go on forever.'' 
 ''If we squander that money, we'll be in bad shape in a couple of years,'' Mr. Willson said. ''We'll be nowhere.'' 
 It was not always this way. Tribal lore holds that the Yurok were once one of the most prosperous tribes in the West. Their lands were -- and still are -- spectacular: lush green mountains reflected in the placid waters of the Klamath, which flows into the Pacific through a narrow sand channel. Legend has it that the passage is guarded by Oregos, an outcropping of rock resembling a mother with a child on her back, and that the Klamath beyond her was once so full of salmon a person could walk across the river on the backs of the fish. 
 And sure enough, for many generations, the fish and the redwoods provided jobs and prosperity, members say.
 But while Yurok fisherman still use traditional nets to catch salmon -- which can bring more than $3 a pound at market -- commercial fishing has largely faded, they say. The main culprit, in their opinion, is four upstream dams, structures the tribe wants removed, especially after a 2002 fish kill in which tens of thousands of adult salmon and steelhead trout died after low water levels caused disease to spread. Some members of the tribe have sued the dams' owners. 
 Logging has also suffered over the years, even as the tribe has been victim to other sorts of bad luck and policy. A 1964 flood devastated Klamath, as did a period of relocations after World War II. The tribe was not officially organized until 1992; it split from the neighboring Hoopa tribe as part of the 1988 act. 
 ''Day to day, there are no jobs here,'' Ms. Tripp said. ''Fishing is bad. We have a lot of methamphetamine on the reservation. There are a lot of elders who wait year after year for help with housing, for help with a lot of programs. So there's that feeling that they've waited long enough.''
 Of the tribe's 5,000 or so members, only about 1,500 live on the reservation, Ms. Tripp said, including those in remote upstream villages. About one-third of the tribe on the reservation lives off the electric grid, using gasoline generators, kerosene lamps and candles to fight the night.
 Cultural differences between those on and those off the reservation have also been aggravated by the $92 million, as have tensions between older, more traditional members and more independent-minded youth. 
 Iska George, 20, a student who goes to college in Eureka, 65 miles away, said he wanted his share of the settlement to pay for tuition and living expenses. Mr. George said he could see spending 15 percent of the money on educational scholarships, but argued that the bulk should go to tribe members. ''So I can get out of here and have a life,'' he said, ''and not be stuck on the reservation like everybody else is.''
 Others want a compromise, with some money for programs and a per-capita payment. ''I think I'd give out nine pieces of pie,'' said Paul Van Menchelen, 47, a former drinker who pulled his life together and now sells salmon jerky by the side of Highway 101. He would divide the money, he said, into ''$10 million each for elders, alcoholics, business owners. And I'd save some for that rainy day.'' 
 Ms. Tripp said she would support a little money for both sides.
 Right now, however, the Yurok heart seems conflicted. In July, the tribe held a brush dance, traditionally used to help heal a child, in this case a young member with asthma. Mr. Mattz, the councilman who was the plaintiff in a 1973 Supreme Court case that won for the tribe the right to fish in the Klamath, said attendance was larger than he had seen at a ceremony for a long time. 
 ''It seemed like people needed that dance so bad, and I haven't felt that in years,'' he said. ''I think it's because of this money and people fighting. I think they needed the ceremony to get their thoughts on the river and the culture. It was a good feeling.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yurok tribe members preparing to cast nets on the Klamath River. Its land is about 325 miles north of San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP (MAP BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) Map showing the Klamath region in California. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); GAS STATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); BUDGETS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



37 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Dangers of a Turbocharged Economy

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KOTKIN

 BODY:
IT'S Labor Day weekend, so let's talk about labor. (Capital absorbs our attention most of the other 364 days of the year.)
 Around 140 million people are employed in the United States. They are engaged in work like governing, manufacturing, health care providing, retailing and researching (as well as suing).
 This gigantic army of laborers, argues Robert B. Reich, has morphed into a nation of consumers and investors, rather than citizens. ''Supercapitalism'' (Knopf, $25), his 11th book, seeks to explain why this supercharged economic system is a civic problem, and what can be done about it. 
 Mr. Reich, who teaches at the University of California, Berkeley, does not rip into opaque hedge funds and demand their regulation. Nor does he harp on lax government regulation of credit and mortgage practices. On the contrary, he criticizes many of the usual liberal fixes directed at the ''excesses of the market.'' His book is smart and compelling, if ultimately toothless.
 Born in 1946, Mr. Reich served as labor secretary under President Bill Clinton, the avatar of the have-it-all baby boom generation. Equally significant, though, is that Mr. Reich's government service dates back to the administrations of Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter -- that is, to the 1970s, the decade when America's immediate postwar economy, a middle-class bonanza like no other, began to give way to today's upper-class bacchanalia.
 It was during what Mr. Reich aptly calls the Not Quite Golden Age, from 1945 to 1975, that America prospered, income inequality fell and most people trusted in government. Then, thanks to technologies like shipping containers and the Web, companies suddenly confronted brutal competition. After that, there was no going back.
 Consumers got more choice and lower prices, while the people on Main Street became investors. Together, newly powerful shoppers and shareholders of this supercapitalism drove a decline in labor unions and a frenzy by corporations desperate to buy some market advantage in Washington.
 ''You and I are complicit,'' Mr. Reich writes. Our ''great deals'' are somebody else's lower pay and some corporation's lobbying.
 We are hypocrites, too, he says. 
 One of the book's examples of consumers' hypocrisy has to do with canned tuna. J. W. Connolly, former president of Heinz U.S.A., which was the parent company of StarKist, explains that ''consumers wanted a dolphin-safe product,'' but ''if there was a dolphin-safe can of tuna next to a regular can, people chose the cheaper product. Even if the difference was a penny.'' The company terminated its higher-cost effort to protect dolphins. After all, it's a business, beholden to consumers and shareholders.
 With such vignettes culled from the news media, Mr. Reich disembowels proponents of corporate ''social responsibility.'' He shows that companies like Wal-Mart are operating legally yet being shamed into incurring social costs that their competitors are not. Critics' campaigns are a misleading diversion, he argues, because they confuse businesses with what they can never be: public interest bodies.
 Public-relations skirmishes are no substitute for democracy. The ritual scolding of corporations in front of Congressional committees, Mr. Reich says, goes hand in hand with Congress's failure to pass follow-up laws that reward businesses for safeguarding the environment or walking away from deals with serial human rights abusers.
 Washington is all about the money, he writes. In 2005, the Census Bureau listed seven suburban counties around the capital as among the 20 richest in the country. And it's not just Republicans cashing in on their service. ''Upon leaving office,'' he notes, ''more than half of the senior officials in the Clinton administration became corporate lobbyists.'' 
 Would-be analysts of this trend, Mr. Reich says, have it backward; government is not historically bigger now, relative to gross domestic product, and politicians are not more corrupt. Rather, market competition is greater, which means that public policy contests -- over organic labeling, for example -- have more than ever become just brawls among business rivals.
 Here, however, we arrive at a cul-de-sac. Mr. Reich argues that the ''most effective thing reformers could do is to reduce the effects of corporate money on politics and enhance the voices of citizens.'' But he also writes of the lock that corporations have and how ''the system cannot repair itself from the inside.'' 
 So he opts for consciousness-raising. The public and the media, he writes, must understand the obscured truths laid bare in his book and demand change. In passing, Mr. Reich comes out in favor of decoupling health insurance from employers and raising the minimum wage to about half the average worker's wage. He mentions runaway C.E.O. pay but offers no prescriptions.
 Capping executive compensation is liable to be rejected as un-American, which it is. So here's my suggestion: a legally binding maximum on C.E.O. multiples of their own workers' salaries. Let's pick a multiple of 300, well above the historical average. If chief executives want to be paid hundreds of millions, and boards comply, no problem; the C.E.O.'s task would be to figure out how to pay the company's lowest worker hundreds of thousands.
 That would be supercapitalism. Chief executives could devote their formidable talents to raising the skills and living standards of loyal work forces and avoiding the huge self-imposed costs of labor turnover, rather than gaming quarterly reports. Shareholders would remain empowered to invest or divest based on performance.
 A lot of American businesses are already well in line with the proposed pay multiple. Companies that insist that they could never compete under the mandated guideline would have an option: look abroad for a cheaper C.E.O.
 To provide an incentive, Congress could enact one of Mr. Reich's best-argued proposals: elimination of the corporate income tax. But only for companies in compliance with the pay-scale multiple. Happy Labor Day. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 30, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A book review on Sept. 2 of ''Supercapitalism,'' by Robert R. Reich, which examines how the economy is shaped by citizens acting as consumers and investors, included an incorrect statement based on the book's description of an effort by StarKist to sell dolphin-safe tuna. While Heinz U.S.A., the former owner of StarKist, found that consumers were not willing to pay additional money for dolphin-safe tuna, the company elected to sell only such tuna and never abandoned the practice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert B. Reich (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US LABOR DAY (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); LOBBYING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); SEAFOOD (76%); CREDIT REGULATION (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); JIMMY CARTER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Supercapitalism (Book)>; Supercapitalism (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



38 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Subprime's Fallout

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
WALL STREET is debating whether difficulties in the credit markets will have a material impact on economic growth. If forecasts for this week's data prove accurate, the economy would seem to be getting off lightly. 
 Benign, even encouraging, reports are expected on employment, inflation and manufacturing, with the highlight likely to be the snapshot on Friday of employment conditions in August. A Bloomberg News poll of economists estimates that 115,000 net jobs were created last month, up from 92,000 in July.
 That prediction sounds about right to Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup Investment Research, but he advised investors to be circumspect about the report. Steady, even robust, job growth could be a sign that the subprime mortgage crisis is not producing subpar economic performance -- but it's also possible that it will take longer than expected for damage to surface.
 ''A lot of the issue is not whether we can see economic weakness at the moment, but will a lack of availability of credit become an economic problem?'' he said. ''If businesses can't borrow at reasonable terms, will we have economic fallout with some lag, maybe a month or two?''
 An important factor is how picky banks will become about lending. A tightening of lending standards, gleaned from a quarterly bank survey that the Federal Reserve compiles, tends to be followed by softness in job creation, he said.
 More surveyed banks are reporting tightening standards than less restrictive ones, though the gap has expanded only modestly, Mr. Levkovich said. Whether it keeps widening, seriously jeopardizing the economy, may depend on what the Fed does about interest rates. A cut in its target for the federal funds rate, which banks charge one another on very short-term loans, is essential, he said. 
 ''A fall in employment is unlikely to happen immediately, but it will happen eventually if the Fed doesn't respond to the messy credit conditions,'' he warned. ''Trimming the Fed funds rate should add liquidity and fend off the tightening of lending standards, but there are no guarantees, of course.''
 DATA WATCH In recent statements, Fed officials have played down the threat of inflation. Two bits of data this week are expected to confirm their assessment.
 The Bloomberg poll forecasts that a revision on Thursday in the second-quarter productivity report will show labor costs rising 1.6 percent, annualized, after the preliminary 2.1 percent announced last month. 
 A modest decline is foreseen on Tuesday in the Institute for Supply Management survey of manufacturing conditions. A reading of 53.0 is expected for August, versus 53.8 for July. A bigger drop, to 63.0 from 65.0, is seen in the survey component indicating prices paid by manufacturers for parts and raw materials. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



39 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Teresa Clarke and John Ellis

BYLINE: By LOIS SMITH BRADY

 BODY:
GROWING UP in southeastern Queens, John Edward Ellis was nicknamed the Brain. By age 10, he was proficient at trigonometry and chess and inclined to discuss the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther's King Jr.'s theory of nonviolence with playground bullies. He spent his ''play time'' capturing bugs, then conducting pain management experiments on them.
 ''John would provide us with jars that held nail polish to sedate the insects,'' said his sister Tracy Ellis. ''Even then, he was an anesthesiologist.''
 Now 49 and a professor in the department of anesthesiology and critical care at the Pritzker School of Medicine at the University of Chicago, he became better known in recent years as the Bachelor: unattainable but rarely unaccompanied. ''John would have to bat away girls,'' said Dr. Michael Roizen, a colleague. 
 Six years ago, he met Teresa Hillary Clarke at a party on Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts, where both spent summer vacations with the same African-American crowd, many of who, like they, went to Harvard, teach at Harvard or have children studying there.
 Ms. Clarke, for instance, has three Harvard degrees: a B.A., an M.B.A. and a J.D. Now 44 and a managing director in global research at Goldman Sachs in New York, she grew up in California and seems as grounded and unshakable as a redwood. From 1995 to 2000, she lived in South Africa, where she established a scholarship fund for gifted students. Ms. Clarke, whose previous marriage ended in divorce, now lives in an Upper West Side triplex and owns a big motorboat that she pilots up and down the Hudson River on weekends. She can even cook.
 Dr. Ellis liked her right away, so he did his usual thing and turned on the charm -- a little too high for her, though. ''He had this corny line, 'Who is the lovely woman with the pretty smile?' '' she recalled. Nevertheless, he had her attention. ''After dinner, he brought me a bowl of ice cream and sat down on the sofa with me,'' she said. '' He's very gregarious. He has a large physical presence. He's tall and wide. I definitely, definitely liked him.'' 
 Dr. Wallace R. Jenkins, Dr. Ellis's Harvard roommate, recalled that Dr. Ellis phoned him right after the party to report that he had met someone special. ''John told me there was 'a situation developing,' '' Dr. Jenkins said. 
 They went on a few more dates before he did another usual thing: End things before they become too serious. ''He said, 'You're the type of girl I'd want to marry but I don't want to get married,' '' she recalled. ''I was definitely disappointed, because I really liked him. I also thought he was being incredibly responsible with his emotions and my emotions.''
 Looking back, Dr. Ellis said, ''I just didn't feel ready. Maybe sometimes I'm too rational. It was an intellectual decision about something that shouldn't be an intellectual decision.'' 
 They both visited Martha's Vineyard again the next summer. He stopped by the house where she was staying, but she wasn't home. She called him, but he was too busy to talk. ''I was thinking, 'Nothing's going to happen with this guy,' '' she said.
 Summer, 2003: Ms. Clarke rented a rambling beach house on the Vineyard with her mother and grandmother. She and Dr. Ellis still occasionally e-mailed each other, so she invited him to stay. To her surprise, he accepted and spent evenings on the porch with the three generations of women, never seeming impatient to escape to a hipper, more high-powered scene. 
 After that, the two started dating again. He often visited her in New York, taking her to historic churches in Harlem, where his grandmother had lived, or jazz shows in funky clubs with no signs outside. ''One of the challenges for me as a single woman was to find someone who could show me things I hadn't seen before,'' she said. ''That person was John.'' 
 But after two years, just when she was expecting a ring, he broke up with her. ''I really believed the relationship was over, over,over,'' she said. ''I was heartbroken, but I'm pretty good at picking myself back up. I went to South Africa and in February '06 I had a big birthday party and started having fun again. I certainly missed him, and I never stopped loving him.''
 Dr. Ellis did not date much but found himself gravitating toward conversations and books about marriage. ''I read a book by James Q. Wilson called 'The Marriage Problem,' '' he said. ''The book is an argument for marriage, from a sociologist's point of view. That perhaps is not so romantic, but reading that book helped me get over my reticence.''
 He added: ''The reality is, I missed Teresa terribly. Being in separate cities, we would talk a lot on the phone, about everything, her work, my work, families, friends, politics, economics, you name it. I think that's what I missed the most, the talking.''
 So last summer, he called her. The phone call, he said, was ''months in the making.'' He planned it carefully, even devising a strategy for keeping her on the line. He said he was calling to make a donation to her scholarship fund.
 She wasn't friendly. ''I put up a real wall,'' she said. ''I was very cold and monosyllabic in my responses. But he was just very patient and he stayed steady. I tried to maintain distance, but I couldn't.'' 
 She agreed to go to a jazz concert with him in New York. But before the evening was over, she recalled, ''I laid down my terms.
 '' 'I said, 'We've got to have a ring and a date.' '' 
 He did not do his usual thing and backpedal or stall. They were married on Aug. 4 on the Vineyard before nearly 300 guests at the Old Whaling Church, a Greek Revival building as white as a sun-bleached seashell. The ceremony was performed by the Rev. M. Thomas Shaw, bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts.
 ''During the time I'd known Teresa, I lost one and then another of my parents,'' Dr. Ellis said. ''I saw that I couldn't just keep the family I had and watch that dwindle. It was time to make my own.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, AUG. 4: The bride and the bridegroom at the altar and top, applauding the Chicago contingent at the reception. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT SPENCER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (87%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (86%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); GIFTED EDUCATION (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



40 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Rich Get Richer, and Poor Hold Their Own

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
THE short trip from the poor neighborhoods of Newark to the mansions of Short Hills crosses a canyon of income inequality rivaled by few places in the country, new census data show.
 Essex County has one of the sharpest contrasts between rich and poor in the nation, a vast gap in fortunes exceeded only by Manhattan, Washington and poor counties in the deep South and far West, according to measures that the Census Bureau released for the first time last week.
 The highest-earning fifth of households in Essex County made $219,669 on average, 23 times as much as the bottom fifth, whose average was $9,608, according to the Census Bureau. The top 5 percent in Essex made $406,885, on average. 
 ''You have Newark and the nearby suburbs, where it is exporting some of its poverty, and you go just a little further west, and it's superaffluent,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University.
 To make the top of the list, a county has to have a concentration of both poor and rich. In much of the country, wide gaps between rich and poor occur in places where poverty is extreme. For instance, Apache County, Ariz., which contains Navajo and Apache Indian reservations, was second highest in income inequality, and the income of the bottom fifth of households was $2,835. In Tuscaloosa County, Ala., which ranked seventh, it was under $6,000.
 But in the New York metropolitan region, the inequality is driven by the great wealth of the top-earning group. Manhattan had the most unequal income distribution in the country, with the top fifth making 40 times the average of the bottom fifth. Westchester County was also among the least equal, as was Fairfield County, in Connecticut, where the top 5 percent of earners made an average of $746,726 in 2006, by far the highest in the country.
 ''In general, inequality has gotten worse not because people in the middle or bottom have lost, but people at the top have gained enormously,'' said Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell University's Johnson School of Management, a contributor to The New York Times and the author of ''Falling Behind: How Rising Inequality Harms the Middle Class.''
 Some economists say the inequality in the region is a natural outgrowth of its heavy reliance on property taxes to finance local government, because people with means move to places that have better services, paid for by higher taxes, stratifying income and privilege by geography.
 ''If you start with a system of heavy reliance on the local property tax and have mobile populations, you're going to end up with geographic distributions that are unequal,'' said Frank S. Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''People in jurisdictions where there's not a lot of money are left to fend for themselves.''
 Some of that imbalance is addressed by state aid to education and by court-ordered equalization of spending on schools. In New Jersey, poor urban school districts now spend as much per pupil as the richest districts. And Newark's poverty has actually eased in the last several years; it posted one of the biggest gains in median income of any city in the country. 
 But inequality in close geographic proximity leads to other potential problems, economists say. The spending of the wealthy not only raises the price of things for the less wealthy, but also creates pressure to spend. 
 ''The context is always local, so if you live in Nepal, the kind of house in which you feel it's O.K. to live is vastly different from some other place,'' Dr. Frank said. When someone lives in a better place nearby, he said, people feel the pressure to spend on better housing. 
 The spectacular gains at the top have created pressure all the way down the income ladder to spend more, which puts more people under financial duress, he said. 
 ''We looked at county data from 1990 to 2000, and the counties where income inequality grew the most, even after controlling for other factors, had higher increases in divorce rates and bankruptcy filings and in the proportion of those taking long commutes,'' Dr. Frank said.
 There are also studies that show that people's health is worse in places with high income inequality, even after controlling for the bad health effects of being poor.
 ''Being in the bottom of a group is just stressful,'' Dr. Frank said.
 Apart from the issue of inequality, the new census figures show that New Jersey relinquished its distinction as the state with the highest median income to Maryland in 2006. But four of the top 10 counties in the country in median income are in the New York metropolitan area, including three in New Jersey: Hunterdon, with median income of $93,297, was fourth; Somerset, at $91,688, was sixth; and Morris, at $89,587, was seventh.

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''Income, and Income Disparity, in the Area'' Median household income in 2006 for counties in the metropolitan area and their rank among the 786 largest U.S. counties. The disparity between the wealthy and poor was especially wide in some counties. The wealthiest 20 percent in Fairfield County earned 23 times more than the poorest 20 percent, for example. (Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); COUNTIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RANKINGS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



41 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Welcome, Stranger. Here's a Speeding Ticket.

BYLINE: By JUDITH CHEVALIER. 
Judith Chevalier is a professor of economics and finance at the Yale School of Management.

 BODY:
DRIVING through a tiny Vermont town a few weeks ago on my way to drop off my daughter at camp, I saw flashing yellow lights appear in my rearview mirror. 
 My car had picked up speed coming down a hill, and a police officer pulled me over. As I waited for a ticket, I wondered: Does this town supplement its finances by giving tickets to visitors like me? 
 I never got to the bottom of the situation in that particular town, but the broader question -- whether police officers in some towns are motivated by fund-raising as well as safety when writing traffic tickets -- has been examined systematically by others. Michael D. Makowsky, a doctoral student in economics, and Thomas Stratmann, an economics professor, both at George Mason University, studied the issue in a recent paper, ''Political Economy at Any Speed: What Determines Traffic Citations?'' 
 They examined every warning and citation written by police officers in all of Massachusetts, excluding Boston, during a two-month period in 2001 -- over 60,000 in all. Their conclusion wasn't shocking to an economist: money matters, even in traffic violations. They found a statistical link between a town's finances and the likelihood that its police officers would issue a speeding ticket. The details are a little sticky, but they show that tickets were issued more often in places that were short on cash, and that out-of-towners received tickets more often than drivers with local addresses. 
 First, some background: In Massachusetts, a police officer is given the discretion to decide whether to issue a warning, which carries no fine, or a citation, which does. The fines for the tickets issued in that period by local police officers totaled $1.8 million, with state troopers issuing $1.7 million more in tickets. The study focused on the local police.
 Municipal finance in Massachusetts is affected by Proposition 2.5, which in 1980 placed a cap on overall property tax levies and on their rate of growth. It turns out that traffic tickets are affected by the proposition, too -- or at least that's what the study found. 
 Under Proposition 2.5, total property tax collections cannot rise more than 2.5 percent a year, but local voters can override that restriction by passing a referendum. The researchers assumed that, on average, towns that had proposed to override referendums but failed to pass them were more constrained financially than other towns. In fact, they found that for drivers who exceeded the speed limit by any given amount, the probability of receiving a fine rather than a warning from a local police officer increased by 28 percent if the town's voters had rejected a Proposition 2.5 override in a referendum.
 Mr. Makowsky and Mr. Stratmann also showed that out-of-town drivers -- especially out-of-state drivers -- were much more likely to get citations. A driver from out of town had a 10 percent higher probability of getting a ticket than a local driver, holding speed and other characteristics constant. Out-of-state plates added 10 percent to the probability of getting a ticket. 
 Furthermore, if an out-of-town driver happened to be driving in a town that had rejected a Proposition 2.5 override, he or she had a 37 percent higher chance of getting a ticket than a local driver traveling at the same speed. ''This suggests that the local voters who voted down the tax increases have had some success in passing off their tax burden to nonvoters,'' Mr. Stratmann said. 
 He and his co-author speculated that the seeming discrimination against out-of-towners by the local police might be explained by two factors: a desire to avoid antagonizing local voters and a preference for ticketing people who were less likely to travel to court to protest a ticket. 
 The phenomenon noted in the study may have implications beyond speeding tickets. During the housing price run-up, property tax revenue in the United States rose substantially -- by 20 percent over all from 2002 to 2005. With housing prices now flat or down, town governments may try to seek property tax rate increases, and voters may resist. Historically, economists have noticed that when there is a lid on property taxes, towns turn to user fees and other sources of revenue -- like speeding tickets -- to avoid spending cuts.
 Assuming that the study's results have some predictive power for other states, it may seem surprising that I received only a warning from the officer who stopped me in Vermont, despite my Connecticut license plates. In their paper, Mr. Makowsky and Mr. Stratmann did find that ticketing was modestly lower in towns with high levels of employment in the hospitality industry, suggesting that police departments might consider the effects of aggressive ticketing on local commerce.
 Perhaps the officer wanted to make sure that my daughter would return to camp next summer -- or perhaps he really just wanted me to slow down. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICULAR OFFENSES (90%); SPEED LIMITS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); REFERENDUMS (88%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); POLITICS (73%); TAX LAW (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); PROPERTY TAX (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



42 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: An Unwanted Passenger

BYLINE: By MELISSA PLAUT. 
Melissa Plaut is the author of ''Hack: How I Stopped Worrying About What to Do With My Life and Started Driving a Yellow Cab.''

 BODY:
DRIVING a taxi in New York City can be a grueling, thankless job. It is also a unionless job. But on Wednesday, many of the city's 44,000 licensed cabdrivers are planning to go on strike for 48 hours to protest the new global positioning systems being installed in the city's 13,000 yellow cabs. 
 While the Taxi and Limousine Commission supports these devices and has mandated that they be up and running in the city's entire fleet by January, many cabdrivers -- myself included -- see this new technology as one big expensive headache. Perhaps the commission should listen to cabdrivers before pushing a device that we'd be better off without. 
 The device has no navigational abilities. The monitor, which is set into the partition separating the driver from the passenger, cannot be seen or accessed from the front of the cab. It does not give directions or plot routes. All it does is keep track of where you are -- both on- and off-duty -- and this information is then stored in the commission's databases. 
 Officials at the commission say the primary purpose of the devices is to track lost property and make sure cabbies aren't taking passengers from point A to point B by way of point Z. Sadly, there are some bad cabdrivers out there who take visitors for a ''ride,'' but in reality, we have much more to fear from our passengers than they have to fear from us. 
 However, for me and many of my fellow drivers, privacy issues aside, it's all about money. With prices ranging from around $3,250 to $4,000 to lease and install each unit, the initial costs alone are enough to drive some cabbies out of business. For private owner/operators, this could kill their year. 
 The costs continue to pile up after the devices are installed. The test drivers who already have the touch-screens have reported finding the monitors covered in spray paint, stickers, soda and scratches. 
 Even without vandalism, the technology is likely to break down. New computers are often plagued with bugs, and sometimes, as every cellphone user knows, satellites can lose their signals. Because these G.P.S. devices will be linked to the taximeters, when the screen is vandalized, the computer breaks down or the satellite connection is unavailable, the meter won't work. The driver will be forced to go off-duty and bring the car in for repairs. In a business where lost time equals lost pay, this is unacceptable.
 One fleet already using the system recently lost its satellite signal, putting about 250 cabs out of commission for nearly three hours until the problem was resolved. This translated not only into fewer available cabs on the streets, but also lower incomes for those already beleaguered cabbies.
 For drivers like me who lease our cabs from privately owned fleets, there isn't the burden of paying for installation or repairs upfront, but the costs may still be passed on to us in the form of ''surcharges'' or ''tax fees.'' However the extra costs will be labeled, it boils down to the same thing: our expenses go up; our income goes down. 
 The only potential benefit for passengers I can see in these machines is the credit card slide. Matthew Daus, chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, is happy to tell anyone who will listen that our tips are better as a result of this, but I beg to differ. Drivers have to pay a hefty 5 percent transaction fee while most stores and restaurants are charged an average base rate of about 2 percent. So those ''bigger tips,'' if they exist at all, simply don't cover the costs. And since most cabs already have the ability to take credit cards, what's the point of installing a whole new system?
 The bottom line is, once we've installed the G.P.S. device, paid for its maintenance, ponied up for repairs and shelled out the transaction fees, what most cabbies will be left with is, in effect, a pay cut. The fare increase in 2004 just barely caught our incomes up with inflation, bringing us to just this side of a livable wage. We should not have to pay that back now.
 By turning a deaf ear to the opinions and expertise of taxi drivers, the commission has approved a design for an impractical and costly device that ultimately does not provide any useful ''service enhancements'' to the public. So when cabdrivers go on strike this week, we can only hope that New Yorkers will stand with us in solidarity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); STRIKES (78%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); VANDALISM (69%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



43 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 5405 words

HEADLINE: Hurtling Toward a Nomination, 2008

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
It is hard to imagine a tougher year to be a presidential candidate -- or at least, someone managing a presidential campaign. Never before has so much been up in the air so close to the first vote. Even as the campaigns spent the past few days planning for the unofficial kickoff that comes with Labor Day -- rallies, bus trips, house parties, speeches and the like -- they were struggling with what veteran aides described as the most unsettled landscape they can remember.
 By yesterday, all the major Democratic candidates said they would not campaign in states that move up their primaries in defiance of party rules -- Florida, and in coming days, possibly Michigan, a late-hour reminder that even the schedule of when states vote remains up in the air for both parties. 
 By the traditional measures of fund-raising, endorsements and polls in early primary states, there is no dominant front-runner in either party. Beyond terrorism and the war, no one has figured out what issues are most going to define the candidates, and with the debate over Iraq policy coming to a head in Washington, even the war could prove to be a moving target politically. 
 The race has been proceeding for eight months at an intensity that candidates normally do not face until the fall. It has come in a wave of debates, high-volume candidate skirmishes, a need to raise huge sums of money and a round-the-clock Internet-fueled news cycle always putting the campaigns on edge. The result? The campaigns are not only anxious about an uncertain future but weary even before the final rush to the primaries.
 ''We've played four quarters and now the game is just beginning,'' said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Senator Barack Obama and a veteran of Democratic presidential campaigns. 
 ''Now you have a situation where you campaign for a full year, and then the process is compressed into a few frenetic weeks,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''We still don't know what the calendar looks like, and we may not for another month or more. How do you schedule where you put your time and resources? It is challenging for everybody in the process.'' 
 Sept. 6
 Star Power
 If there is one moment this fall that captures both the hopes and frustrations of Republican primary voters, it is probably this one: This is the day that Fred D. Thompson -- the actor and former senator from Tennessee -- announces he is running for president. 
 After months of toying and teasing, the party will finally have an opportunity to assess Mr. Thompson as a candidate -- why he is running, how he is different from his opponents and how he comes across on the stump. So far, he has offered only broad generalities of his campaign themes in his appearances. At the Iowa State Fair last month, he drew some unfavorable headlines for his Gucci loafers and decision to move around in a golf cart.
 The Republicans' fixation on Mr. Thompson reflects continuing qualms, particularly in the conservative wing, about the field of candidates. In their ideal world, Mr. Thompson would turn out to be a strong, dominating candidate and consistent champion for conservative values.
 Mr. Thompson has presented himself as the inheritor of the political legacy of President Ronald Reagan, another actor, and many in the party are hoping he will be that. But others are just as concerned that Mr. Thompson could turn out to be the Republican version of Wesley Clark. Mr. Clark charged onto the presidential field in 2004 after setting off similar excitement among Democrats, who then watched as the campaign quickly fumbled, the victim of Mr. Clark's lack of experience in national politics and unclear vision of why he was running. 
 Even Mr. Thompson's associates acknowledge that the months leading up to his announcement have hardly been auspicious as Mr. Thompson churned through staff and, in his few public appearances, came across as somewhat underwhelming.
 ADAM NAGOURNEY 
 Sept. 8
 Just a Little House Party
 Oprah Winfrey will hold a fund-raiser at her 23,000-square-foot mansion in Santa Barbara, Calif., for Mr. Obama, a reflection of how candidates are scrambling for support not just among voters, but among celebrities, too.
 In past elections the celebrity set has gravitated toward the Clintons, but this time around Mr. Obama is chipping into the Hollywood elite, and the Oprah fund-raiser at her 42-acre property, complete with man-made lake, will show his drawing power. 
 The Hollywood divide between Mr. Obama and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton became apparent in February when producer David Geffen, a longtime supporter of the Clintons, publicly broke with them and threw a fund-raiser for Mr. Obama that brought in $1.3 million.
 Celebrities can bring sought-after buzz to a campaign -- a bankable commodity in its own right -- and their star power can haul in money from donors eager to party with the stars, sometimes at their homes. Mr. Obama has shown surprising strength on that front, receiving the maximum $2,300 in primary contributions from actors Tom Hanks, Morgan Freeman, Samuel L. Jackson, Halle Berry, Eddie Murphy, Gene Wilder, Leonard Nimoy, Rosanna Arquette, Chris Rock, Will Smith, George Clooney and Jennifer Aniston.
 Some actors are playing the Democratic field, making donations to multiple candidates. Ben Stiller has given to Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama and former Senator John Edwards. Paul Newman and Michael Douglas have donated to Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama, Senator Christopher J. Dodd and Gov. Bill Richardson. Barbra Streisand supports Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Dodd, Mr. Edwards and Mr. Obama. Tobey Maguire likes Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama.
 The Republicans are not without support in the entertainment industry, but it is comparatively thin. Kelsey Grammer gave $4,600 to Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, for the primary and general election, while Adam Sandler gave him $2,100. Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, received $500 from Pat Boone. Jerry Bruckheimer gave $2,300 to Senator John McCain.
 MIKE McINTIRE 
 Sept. 10
 Iraq Yardstick
 The presidential hopefuls, who have spent months clinging to familiar scripts in the debate over the war, will carefully digest the Iraq progress report to be delivered this day to Congress by Gen. David H. Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker.
 Campaign advisers are weighing whether the report provides an opening for Republican candidates to break with President Bush or presents an opportunity to give the current strategy more time. The moment could be critical as candidates work to balance the strategy in Iraq with the domestic threat from Islamic terrorists.
 Day after day, the Democrats will use the war issue to promise a sharp break with Bush administration policies. Except for Mr. McCain, the Republicans have had far less to say about the war, making the case that they will keep the nation safer than the Democrats, an approach that helped Mr. Bush win re-election in 2004.
 As Mr. Thompson put it recently, ''Iraq, one way or another, is in our rearview mirror.'' But if the report shows progress, could Mr. McCain be granted an unexpected political lifeline?
 Sept. 18
 Eyes on the Fed
 The first President George Bush blamed Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, for his loss to Bill Clinton in 1992.
 ''Alan Greenspan disappointed me,'' Mr. Bush said in a 1998 interview with David Frost. ''I think if the interest rates had been lowered more dramatically, that I would have been re-elected president.''
 Mr. Bush's assertion may be debatable but his complaint is powerful evidence that the decisions of the independent Fed, which strives to stand apart from partisan politics, are open to political criticism. 
 With the Fed, now led by Ben Bernanke, facing a critical decision on Sept. 18 when its policymakers will consider whether to lower interest rates in response to this summer's credit crunch, Mr. Bernanke and his fellow central bankers, whether they like it or not, can expect to be in the spotlight. 
 If economic growth weakens in the months ahead, it would undercut one of the few positives Republican candidates have been able to point to in making their case to succeed the current President Bush. A sharp rise in foreclosures and a visible decline in home prices would also hurt, reinforcing the Democratic argument that Republican economic policies have helped the rich while harming the middle class and the poor.
 ''The economy has not been a big issue in the campaign,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, an independent research firm. ''But I now expect that the economic climate is going to be weaker through a big chunk of the electioneering season.''
 A chillier economy, however, would not necessarily be an unalloyed gain for Democrats. It would be easy to blame the outgoing President Bush for an economic downturn. It would be harder to hold the new Republican nominee accountable for whatever economic troubles lie ahead.
 Moreover, the threat of a recession would make it more difficult for Democrats to advocate allowing the president's tax cuts to expire, as they are scheduled to do in 2010, and easier for Republicans to argue that Democratic proposals to raise taxes on the rich risk making the economy worse.
 So both sides in the campaign have reasons to hope that the Fed's actions will help keep the economy afloat. If not, both Democrats and Republicans will be looking for someone to blame, and Mr. Bernanke, like Mr. Greenspan, will be one of the targets.
 TOM REDBURN 
 Sept. 26
 Bill Goes Global
 Mr. Clinton kicks off his three-day Clinton Global Initiative conference in New York City, a display of the clout of the prospective first gentleman and a de facto commercial for Mrs. Clinton. 
 Mr. Clinton likes to say that foreign leaders are pulling for his wife's election as a way to restore American credibility around the world. He has been mum on which foreign leaders believe this, but word is that some global luminaries may use the event to praise Mrs. Clinton or her candidacy (unofficially because the event is officially nonpolitical).
 The presidents of Colombia, Israel and Kazakhstan are scheduled to attend, as are former leaders of Canada, Ireland and Mexico. Lance Armstrong, Toni Morrison and Ted Turner will add luster to the proceedings. What are the odds that they make an offhand endorsement of Mrs. Clinton to one of the scores of reporters who will be covering the event? 
 And then there is Iraq. Mrs. Clinton's 2002 Senate vote authorizing the war was a matter of hallway gossip among some attendees last year. The Clintons are trying to focus the Iraq discussion on future solutions, and not Mrs. Clinton's past vote (or mistake, as some conference-goers said last year). Will there be an all-but-official ban on discussing the old Iraq vote on Clinton territory?
 As for Mrs. Clinton, she has attended and headlined some of the conference sessions in past years. The smart bet is that she will also do a star turn at some point at this one. Although if there is a coffee-and-pie invitation from an Iowa legislator who has yet to endorse, Mr. Clinton may be filling in for her at the conference.
 PATRICK HEALY 
 Oct. 15
 McCain's Crossroads
 Watch this day to see if Mr. McCain is going to stay in the race through the Iowa caucuses. Mr. McCain must report his third-quarter fund-raising and has said since the financial collapse of his campaign this summer that he would stay in the race, pledging to plow ahead with a bare-bones budget in the belief that voters will embrace him when they begin to inspect the field.
 His assertion has drawn skepticism from some supporters, who say it is far from certain he will be able to raise enough money to continue. 
 Another bad quarter of fund-raising could leave Mr. McCain with little choice but to exit as he faces an expensive stretch of the race, when most candidates will spend heavily on advertising. (Not to mention that another bad fund-raising report would do little to attract new supporters, contributors and the free news coverage he would need if he could not afford advertising.)
 Should he drop out, the big question would be who, if anyone, he endorses. His associates say the person to watch is Mr. Giuliani: Mr. McCain has never been particularly fond of Mr. Romney. Aides to Mr. McCain said he had also been under the impression that Mr. Thompson would not enter the race as long as Mr. McCain was in it. One associate said that Mr. McCain was riled by Mr. Thompson's entry, making it more likely that he would back Mr. Giuliani.
 ADAM NAGOURNEY 
 Oct. 19
 Finding Their Religion
 Start of a two-day ''Values Voters Summit,'' sponsored by several leading Christian conservative groups. The event's straw poll could offer a sense of whether evangelical and other social conservatives have coalesced around a candidate in the Republican presidential race.
 For Mr. Giuliani, the big question is whether those voters will overlook his defense of abortion rights and be swayed by his pitch that he is strongest on the biggest family value of them all: guarding their families from terrorist attack.
 Mr. Romney has been working to overcome concerns about his Mormon faith and his relatively recent conversion to ardent opponent of abortion. Watch for Mr. Romney, who spoke at this forum last year, to deliver his version of the speech John F. Kennedy made before Southern Baptist leaders in Houston in 1960 that many credit with helping him overcome concerns about his Catholicism. Could this be the venue?
 For his part, Mr. McCain, who once called Pat Robertson and the Rev. Jerry Falwell ''agents of intolerance,'' has worked to patch up his relationship with evangelicals and can point to a consistent voting record opposing abortion. 
 With so much hand-wringing among Christian conservatives about their choices in the field, however, Mr. Thompson had been viewed by many as their last best hope. By this date, there should be a sense of whether he has been able to consolidate their support or whether his moment passed before he officially entered the race. 
 Standing in the background is the candidate who drew attention for his second-place finish in the Iowa straw poll: Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor and a former Baptist pastor. But Mr. Huckabee faces a steep climb. He, like everyone else in the field, could use a divine assist. MICHAEL LUO 
 Oct. 24
 The Other National Pastime
 The World Series begins. Beer companies pay top dollar for advertisements between innings. But a candidate whose team is in the series may snatch lots of free face time from reaction shots, not to mention a chance to throw out a first pitch or get a brief interview in the broadcast booth. 
 So, would a Diamondbacks-Yankees series see a reprise of the friendly McCain-Giuliani rivalry of 2001, when the two men took in games together? Will Mr. Romney's Red Sox have knocked Mr. Giuliani's Yankees out of contention? And where would Mrs. Clinton's loyalties lie in a Yankees-Cubs World Series? MICHAEL COOPER 
 Oct. 26
 Going to Disney World
 Florida Democrats will gather at Disney World for the state convention, and the presidential candidates are invited. Whether they attend -- and what else they do in Florida if they come -- will provide an early test of how closely they plan to adhere to a pledge the major candidates signed not to campaign in any state that moved up its primary in violation of party rules. 
 Florida's decision to move up its primary to Jan. 29 defied a party guideline that required the state to hold its contest no earlier than Feb. 5. The pledge also applies to Michigan, which is set to move its primary ahead to Jan. 15 despite the threat of similar sanctions.
 The Democratic candidates are well aware of the importance of Florida in a general election. And they are well aware that one Republican in particular, Mr. Giuliani, seems to be spending as much time in Florida as in Iowa. They do not want any Floridian to feel disrespected by Democrats who seem to be skipping out on their primary.
 It will be interesting to see which Democrats turn up in Orlando, Fla.; a Florida party official made clear Saturday that pledge or no pledge, members expect candidates to come to their convention. And look for candidates (think Mrs. Clinton, who had looked to an early Florida primary as a step to advance her nomination and her general election prospects) who might sneak in a ''nonpolitical'' event that would win a moment of Florida television without riling Democrats in places like Iowa and New Hampshire.
 ADAM NAGOURNEY 
 Nov. 4 
 The Wallflowers
 This begins the one-year countdown to Election Day 2008, raising the question: Will the field of candidates be settled by then? You may think there are already too many people running for president, but several are still standing on the sidelines, talking about running or encouraging speculation about their ambitions. 
 Call them the coquettes: First among them is the mayor of New York, Michael R. Bloomberg, who says he is not a candidate, relishes the talk that he might be one and all the while pursues a just-in-case strategy of laying the groundwork for a third-party run. 
 Mr. Bloomberg may have told Dan Rather recently that he would not mount a campaign (''Nobody's going to elect me president of the United States,'' he said in an interview on the high-definition cable network HDNet), but his actions continue to send the opposite message.
 Mr. Bloomberg dropped his Republican affiliation and transformed himself into a symbol of pragmatic, nonpartisan governing. He has traveled the country giving federal policy speeches on issues like gun control, poverty, education, stem cell research, energy and illegal immigration. He has also built a network of political alliances with like-minded leaders from important electoral states, including California (Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger), Missouri (Senator Claire McCaskill) and Florida (former Gov. Jeb Bush).
 Also in this group are the former House speaker, Newt Gingrich, who is giving a speech Sept. 27 that may reveal his intentions. Sam Nunn, the former Democratic senator from Georgia and a military expert, has said he may make a third-party bid with the Unity '08 group, which is seeking a bipartisan ticket.
 There is also Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, who is a Vietnam veteran and an outspoken critic of the Iraq war. Both he and Mr. Bloomberg have expressed their frustration with the current state of two-party politics, and Mr. Hagel has been floating the notion of a Bloomberg-Hagel (or is that Hagel-Bloomberg?) independent ticket next year.
 Last, but not least, the specter of an Al Gore candidacy looms over the Democratic race, which could be a particular concern to the Clinton camp. People watch Mr. Gore's fluctuating weight for an indication of his political plans, but his recent book tour was a sign that he remains very much in the political arena. 
 Mr. Gore continues to bat away speculation about his intentions, but even standing on the sidelines he adds drama to an already volatile race. 
 DIANE CARDWELL 
 Nov. 28
 The Cyber-race
 With all the predictions that 2008 would be ''the YouTube election,'' it came as a surprise this summer when some of the Republican presidential candidates balked at a YouTube debate scheduled for Sept. 17. Faced with criticism from several leading Republican bloggers, the candidates relented, agreeing to this date for their debate, in which the public will ask questions via video.
 Historians looking back on the episode might wonder what all the fuss was about. Videos on the Web are now so common that, in retrospect, their introduction into presidential debates seems inevitable. They enliven the format, allow voters without inside connections to take part, and inject an element of real life -- and animated life, too, like the snowman who asked about global warming at the Democrats' debate on YouTube in July. MySpace and MTV are following with their own candidate forums. 
 Among the candidates, there is now a race for the most YouTube channel views and MySpace friends and who can best mobilize the net roots. The Democrats have established a clear advantage on the Internet, particularly in raising money. 
 Some Republicans, notably Mr. Romney and Mr. Thompson, have shown some dexterity online, but the Republican field lags in using the Web and in becoming comfortable with it. 
 There are several theories: Republicans are hierarchical by nature and prefer top-down control, as opposed to the anarchy of the Web, where no one is in charge; just as the Republicans developed a countervailing voice on talk radio while the Democrats were in power, the Democrats have developed their voice on the Internet. The Republicans have no equivalent of the DailyKos blog, which serves as an organizing tool for the left and where views are often picked up by the mainstream news media. 
 If there was a lament about the Democrats' debate on YouTube, it was that the videos did not exploit the nature of the medium; most questioners simply turned the camera on themselves. Perhaps in the Republican version, questioners will use video to greater effect. They might, for example, ask Mr. Giuliani a question while showing the World Trade Center on fire, or ask Mr. McCain a question to the tune of the Beach Boys' song ''Barbara Ann,'' a nod to his own ''Bomb, Bomb, Bomb, Bomb Bomb Iran.''
 Voters, especially younger ones, will be watching to see if the candidates can show them that this is not their fathers' Republican Party.
 KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 
 Dec. 10
 Something About California
 The Democrats will debate in Los Angeles, battling for votes in delegate-rich California, the ultimate prize of the Feb. 5 mega-primary day.
 California lawmakers of both parties thought they had a brilliant strategy when they moved their primary to Feb. 5. The unifying theory was that the candidates, so accustomed to making the money rounds among California donors before fleeing east forever, would now be forced to campaign in the state. But by the time Mr. Schwarzenegger swiped his pen and made the change official in March, roughly 20 other states had also entered the February game.
 The result is that candidates are confronted with hard logistical choices about how to deal with a crucial state. California provides big dollars through its donor pool, but it also takes them away, as one of the most expensive media markets. 
 What is more, it removes candidates who spend a lot of time there far from the rest of the action, particularly Iowa and New Hampshire, whose voters have not cottoned to candidates who fail to spend a lot of time in their states. 
 The entry of California into the early rounds also means that candidates are going to be appealing for Hispanic votes (not a big constituency in New Hampshire) and boning up on issues that have not played big in previous primary fights, issues like the environment, water rights and immigration. 
 If it causes logistical problems for some candidates, it has provided an opening for others: Mr. Giuliani has been carving out time recently to keep up appearances in the state, practically becoming a part-time resident of Orange County, where he is focusing a fair amount of his efforts. That is because he is hoping to survive a second- or third-place showing in Iowa and New Hampshire, do better in the handful of contests after that, then notch commanding victories in California and other Feb. 5 states. JENNIFER STEINHAUER 
 Dec. 16
 Judi, Jeri and the Rest
 Today the nation -- or at least Mr. Giuliani -- bids Judith Giuliani a happy 53rd birthday. Next year's could be more festive, though: Mrs. Giuliani could be the incoming first lady.
 That would be sweet revenge for a woman who has had a rough journey on the campaign trail, with her husband saying, then not saying, she would attend cabinet meetings, admissions that the two had dated while Mr. Giuliani was still married, and articles in which writers and sources tore Mrs. Giuliani to bits. 
 But Mrs. Giuliani is just one in a group of spouses so rich in personality and subplot that they seem more like characters in a novel than in the news. 
 The Republican side is a case of the old hands -- veterans Cindy McCain and Ann Romney -- against the arrivistes, Mrs. Giuliani and Jeri Kehn Thompson. While Mrs. Giuliani has been covered extensively, less is known about Mrs. Thompson, other than that she is more than 20 years younger than her husband, active in the campaign, and wears a cocktail gown distractingly well. 
 In the next few months, said Gil Troy, an expert on first families, look for both women to throw themselves into worthy causes. ''That's what Nancy Reagan did, and it helped redirect the coverage,'' he said.
 Perhaps as a counter to Mrs. Giuliani and Mrs. Thompson, the Romney campaign will soon start www.annromney.com, about the woman who seems, at first blush, like a perfect political wife: her husband's high school sweetheart and a volunteer for children's charities. But Mrs. Romney would be a first lady with a terrible sword hanging over her head: she has multiple sclerosis, a disease that once left her barely able to walk and could flare up at any time.
 On the Democratic side, the two women working most furiously to defeat Mrs. Clinton are also following in her footsteps. Elizabeth Edwards and Michelle Obama are brainy, outspoken lawyers who started off as their husbands' professional equals, turned away from their own careers and devoted themselves to those of their husbands. 
 No one knows how much time Elizabeth Edwards has left because of her incurable cancer, which means the nation could lose a first lady if her husband is elected. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Clinton is ''strongly committed'' to continuing his foundation work if his wife is elected, which would violate a tradition of spouses not working outside the White House. 
 So to break a women's barrier it might take a man. JODI KANTOR Jan. ?
 Making 'Iowa Nice'
 The date is hard to pin down, but The Des Moines Register likes to schedule its Republican presidential debate about a week before the Iowa Caucuses, and this one could be the one to watch. 
 The Republicans, who have trained most of their fire on the Democrats, will be torn by conflicting impulses. Some may feel constrained to keep it pleasant, in the spirit of the civil brand of politics that Iowans are known to favor. Others, trailing in the polls as time runs out, will be under enormous pressure to bloody the front-runner. 
 ''Iowa nice'' has its limits. Howard Dean was an Iowa front-runner who was pummeled by his opponents at the Democratic debate in 2004, and when the caucuses were held later that month he finished in third place. 
 What intramural skirmishing there has been at Republican debates has been largely confined to Mr. Romney's efforts to portray Mr. McCain as soft on illegal immigration, and Mr. McCain's counterattack painting Mr. Romney as a flip-flopper. 
 While Mr. Giuliani has been leading in national polls, his rivals have been loath to engage him directly, partly because he is popular and partly because they did not expect his lead to hold. But Mr. Romney has recently shown a willingness to criticize Mr. Giuliani, which could foretell a new debate strategy.
 Mr. Thompson is a wild card. A Republican close to the Thompson camp said one reason he delayed his entry into the race was a concern that he was not ready to compete in debates. Once Mr. Thompson gets to the lectern, the question is whether he will come across as the folksy communicator his supporters admire or as ill-prepared compared with rivals who have been at it longer. 
 David Yepsen, The Register's political columnist, said that if he were asking questions in this debate, he would focus on the growing national debt.
 This is the kind of debate that could help voters make up their minds -- particularly because the caucuses are by design more deliberative than regular primary elections, making unforeseen last-minute surges a possibility. (See: Kerry, John.) MICHAEL COOPER 
 Jan. 14
 Edwards's Gamble
 The scheduled date of the Iowa caucuses -- for now -- and none of the candidates has more at stake than Mr. Edwards, who has thrown much of his resources into Iowa, hoping that a victory will propel him to a triumph in New Hampshire and catapult him toward the Democratic nomination. 
 The flip side is equally significant -- should Mr. Edwards not do well in Iowa, even his top aides have conceded it would be hard for him to remain a viable candidate. 
 In recent weeks, as Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have been chipping away at Mr. Edwards's edge in Iowa polls, the Edwards campaign has been diverting staff members from other early states to beef up operations, magnifying the stakes for Mr. Edwards there. 
 To some extent, Mr. Edwards has advantages in Iowa that his opponents lack. He gets warm greetings from Iowa's largely white, largely older caucusgoers who may not be ready to break ground and support a woman or a black candidate for the presidency. 
 Mr. Edwards has spent a lot of time courting rural Iowans, who have disproportionate power in the caucuses, by saying he is more ''electable'' than Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama -- both of whom appear to appeal more to women and younger voters and urban voters. 
 In 2004, Mr. Edwards flew under the Iowa radar to a surprise second-place finish that raised him to national prominence. The last thing he wants this time is for one aspect of Iowa political history to repeat itself: Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri faced the Iowa causes in 2004 as the favorite, the position Mr. Edwards is in today, only to be upset by the fresh faces of Senator John Kerry and Mr. Edwards himself. 
 LESLIE WAYNE 
 Jan. 15
 Commercial Appeal
 By now advertising campaigns will be at or near record levels, with candidates on both sides running commercials in states with the next big contests, like Nevada and New Hampshire. The campaigns will also be watching for rivals who start laying down advertising money in states with more distant contests or in states in which they were not previously expected to do well.
 As one Republican strategist said, bold advertising moves at this stage would either be a sign of confidence or a bluff to draw rivals' precious advertising dollars into a state they had considered safe. JIM RUTENBERG 
 Feb. 5
 The Mega-Primary
 Will this day -- when 20 states hold their nominating contests -- signify the end of the primary season? That is one of the central discussions ricocheting through most of the campaigns as they try to predict the outcome of a mega-primary day that will pose major logistical challenges for candidates coming off battles in Florida, Iowa, New Hampshire and other battlegrounds like Maryland and Virginia.
 With more than half the delegates in play on Feb. 5, it is possible -- maybe even probable -- that Republicans and Democrats will end the day with a presumptive nominee. 
 But it is also possible -- particularly on the Democratic side, where Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards all have sizable bases of support -- that the candidates will split the take and continue to the next state. That would turn this into a delegate accumulation battle that could easily go through the spring and into the convention.
 As a result of all that uncertainty, the campaigns are having to think beyond Feb. 5 and keep some money in reserve to carry them through what could be a war of attrition.
 One thing is certain: Both Mrs. Clinton, a Democrat, and Mr. Giuliani, a Republican, are looking to this day -- where states voting include California, New Jersey and New York, all hospitable to the two New Yorkers -- as a fire wall in the event they stumble in Iowa and New Hampshire. 
 ADAM NAGOURNEY 
 June 3
 Last but Maybe Not Least
 Should the parties not have candidates by Feb. 5 or soon after, some states that shied away from the early primary sweepstakes could emerge as power brokers. South Dakota, for example, is holding firm to this last-in-the-nation primary date. With so many candidates, an unsettled nomination could make South Dakota the new Iowa. The issues there? On Friday, the top story on the Web site of The Pierre Capital Journal was: ''Fire chars shed on east side of Pierre.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: Spouses (and ex-wives) thicken the plot
Romney following in dad's footsteps
Florida's game of chicken
Another crack at running the free world?
Fred D. Thompson tries a new career, again
Will Oprah's magic rub off on Obama? (ILLUSTRATIONS BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ)
What to expect when you're electing: Sure, the presidential campaign is under way. But just wait: the months ahead are pockmarked with increasingly crucial moments that will determine which candidates emerge as their party's nominee. CHARTS: WHO VOTERS SUPPORT: Nationwide Gallup telephone surveys were conducted Aug. 13 to 16. Chart showing Republican and Democrat support for the candidates
WHAT THEY RAISED: Through the second quarter in millions. (Source: Federal Election Committee) Chart showing in millions the amount of money each candidate has raised (pg. 20)
INTERNET MARKET SHARE: Among presidential Web sites, visitors went to: (Source: Hitwise) Chart showing the presidential web sites most frequently visited
 EARLY CONTESTS (Source: National Association of Secretaries of State)(pg. 21). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); US LABOR DAY (71%); TERRORISM (53%)

PERSON: DAVID AXELROD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



44 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: The Summer We Went Broke

BYLINE: By JAMES P. OTHMER. 
James P. Othmer is the author of ''The Futurist,'' a novel.

 BODY:
Mahopac, N.Y.
 FOR the first 15 summers of my life, my family took multiweek vacations on the Jersey Shore and in Montauk. When we weren't at the beach I spent most of my days with my friends on Lake Mahopac, water-skiing, fishing and exploring. But by the time my 16th summer arrived, my parents were broke and I was spending my days -- and most of the next four summers -- far from Montauk, the Shore and my beloved lake. I was spending them working for my father across the Hudson River in Rockland County, laying block at a mental institution. 
 One would think that spending arguably the most formative summers of one's life doing brute manual labor surrounded by the mentally ill, working for a recently well-off man struggling to save his house, would be disturbing if not damaging in and of itself. But I had a blast. And I'm not saying this in a ''when I was a kid I walked six miles barefoot each way to the mill'' presidential-candidate, back-story kind of way. I'm saying it because it was strange and hard and fun. And also because I made more in a day mixing mortar and laying block than any of my friends did in a week of lifeguarding, baby-sitting or stocking shelves at the Grand Union. Of course, it helped that I was 15, obsessed with baseball, girls and Jethro Tull, oblivious to the strain my parents were no doubt feeling. 
 Several years earlier we had a boat and a large brick house, and my father owned a single-engine Cessna in which he would fly us on jaunts to destinations like Block Island, Montauk and Montreal. Then he sold a thriving contracting business and invested everything in a commercial construction project that, combined with a recession, would be his downfall. The project was chronically behind schedule and over budget. 
 First the plane went, then the boat. To keep our house he worked at a number of jobs, including laying brick in Manhattan by day and driving a New York City cab at night. For my father, bidding on and winning the five-year masonry job renovating some 60 buildings at the Letchworth Village state mental institution represented a chance at financial redemption. For me it represented the first real adventure of my life.
 On my first day on the job, my friend Larry was backing a flatbed truck loaded with eight-inch block and a pallet of Portland cement into a tricky spot near a steep cliff. Before I could get out to direct him, an older, well-dressed, pipe-smoking gentleman emerged and with stoic surety began to guide us into place. Or so we thought. With the truck inches from going over the precipice of the cliff, we were saved by the shouts of my father. Our guide was a mental patient, a resident. 
 Larry and I thought this was hilarious, and Pipe-smoking Man became the first of many interesting friends we'd make. There was Eugene, the chronic chatterer, who had a thousand questions for us every day; Earl, the ballroom dancer/stripper; and Fred who replied to our merry greetings each morning with a string of ingenious, Tourette's-like profanities.
 One day we locked my brother in the subterranean, medieval ''Brain Room'' filled with formaldehyde jars of, yes, brains. On another my father broke up a spontaneous sing-along that Larry and I had arranged with a group of residents. And every day we mixed batch after batch of mortar and seemed to always have eight-inch blocks dangling from our calloused hands. But no matter how hard we worked we knew that come evening we'd still be able to swim or ski on the lake or go to a party in some remote field, and in September we'd be back in school.
 But for my father, who was more than 50 at the time, I imagine there was little fascination with the goings-on at a mental institution, no desire to conduct sing-alongs with the residents and no thrill in laying block, a job he had learned on the skyscrapers of Manhattan after returning from World War II and, surely, hoped he had outgrown. For my father the project was another huge risk. There were countless issues with unions, state inspectors and banks. But on the job he never showed it. No matter how hung-over or groggy the rest of us were as we piled into his car at 6 every morning, he was always wide awake, neatly dressed, freshly shaved and disturbingly chipper. 
 On a scaffold my father was all hustle and grace, a joy to watch with a trowel. And while the rest of us were always sweating, covered in cement, he was so clean that we would joke: with your eyes closed, a whiff of baby powder would alert you to his presence. He didn't abide idleness, and other than Larry and my older brother and my two brothers-in-law, none of my friends were ever invited back for a second day of work. 
 His most familiar lessons were: Mix another batch. Set up the next scaffold. Put gas in the mixer. Clean the tools. Never stand and watch. And stop goofing around with the residents.
 Late in August, on one of my last days at Letchworth Village, I was alone in an abandoned building, laying block on a scaffold. Larry had gone back to college upstate and my father had left for a night of driving a cab in the city. After almost four years, the job was winding down. We weren't about to buy a boat or another plane, but the house was safe again. 
 In a few days, after two years of redeeming myself in community college and saving several semesters' worth of tuition, I would leave for college in Boston. The late-day Hudson Valley air had an autumnal chill that to this day still makes me think of Washington Irving's Headless Horseman, and I would be lying if I said being alone in an abandoned building at a mental hospital didn't spook me. For company, I was listening to classic rock on a portable radio. 
 Even after four years of handling a trowel, I was far from being the master mason my father was, so when the man from the state came inside to watch me, I was particularly self-conscious. The trowel felt like a shovel, the blocks fought the plumb bubble on my level. I turned and nodded, and the man barely nodded in return. If he was an inspector he probably was not happy to see an apprentice doing the work of a mechanic. Despite the cool air, I began to sweat. 
 After a while, ''Just You and Me'' by Chicago came on. It slowly built momentum, with the horns playing an increasingly aggressive role. Too much so for the inspector, I thought. But when I turned to lower the volume, I saw that the man whom I thought was the inspector was dancing. Dancing and now playing the air trombone -- with gusto. 
 This startled me so much I almost fell off the scaffold. I screamed, ''What are you doing?'' Then I picked up my block hammer because I was certain that the next logical progression after playing air trombone would be for him to kill the boy mason. But he just continued to dance and play, and I felt silly for expecting anything different.
 When I got in my car to leave for the last time, Pipe-smoking Man was there again to back me out. I waved thanks and drove off in the opposite direction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); WATERSKIING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); WATER SPORTS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); MASONRY CONTRACTORS (68%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (62%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); SMOKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



45 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL ROLLS-ROYCE PHANTOM DROPHEAD COUPe; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: It's a Stretch, Grandpa, But I Got a Rolls

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO
 IT'S a Rolls-Royce,'' my grandfather said with reverence. I had never seen one before, and I was mesmerized. 
 It was the early 1950s, and the car was probably a Silver Wraith, the first Rolls-Royce built after a nine-year production hiatus around World War II.
 ''How much does that cost?'' I asked. Grandpa rattled off some figure that I don't recall now and couldn't comprehend then. But I have since learned that a Silver Wraith of that vintage cost about four times the average annual income of an American household at the time (about $4,000). ''That includes free service,'' Grandpa advised, as a measure of justification. ''If it breaks down or needs spare parts, Rolls-Royce will fix it -- free.''
 ''What if it breaks down in the middle of nowhere?'' I asked. 
 ''They'll send a mechanic,'' he answered.
 Nice story, although Grandpa was either just wrong or was flat-out making stuff up. (He did stretch the truth a bit; I know now, for instance, that he was not Chief Cook and Bottle Washer for the United States Navy.) 
 ''Rolls-Royce is a many-storied brand,'' said Bob Austin, a spokesman for Rolls-Royce Motor Cars North America. ''Some are even true.''
 Parts and service were not freebies; in fact, the company depended on that income and it was tenacious in making certain it got 100 percent of it. ''It has been said that Rolls-Royce hoods were sealed at the factory,'' Mr. Austin said, ''so no one else could work on their engines.'' 
 Before World War II, Rolls made its own square-head nuts and bolts. ''If a Rolls-Royce technician found a hex-head bolt in the frame or the drivetrain,'' Mr. Austin explained, ''he would know that someone from outside the company had been working on the car.''
 So much for the factory warranty -- and so much for your parts and service fantasy, Grandpa.
 The warranty -- now four years, by the way -- was the least of my concerns as I spent a day test-driving a new Phantom Drophead Coupe this summer around San Diego. This was the same city in which I'd seen that first Rolls-Royce so many years earlier. We even drove on some of the same streets. Surely we must have passed a little boy who wondered, ''What's that car?'' 
 This convertible reminded me of that Silver Wraith of the Churchill era: the same stately stance; the long hood and waterfall grille, the high, imposing sides like the walls of an estate, keeping the proletariat at bay.
 The Drophead Coupe, several years in the making and probably a couple of years overdue, is the newest version of a Rolls-Royce reborn for the 21st century. Rolls-Royce cars have been built since 1906, but the entity that is building them now has been around only since 2003. 
 To recap one of the more serpentine corporate takeover tales of recent years, the Rolls-Royce marque was sold in 1998. BMW bought part of it, and Volkswagen bought the rest. The companies tussled for a time over who bought what, but by 2003, when the rust had settled, VW wound up with the rights to Bentley and BMW had Rolls.
 ''But what's important to understand is that BMW just bought the name,'' said Paul Ferraiolo, president of Rolls-Royce N.A. since July 1. They didn't buy a car, or a factory, or employees, or even a dealer network. They had to start from scratch.''
 The first BMW-built Rolls was the 2003 Phantom sedan, which despite its controversially monolithic styling, seems to have won acceptance from the brand's faithful fans. Whoever they are. 
 ''We have given up trying to categorize or characterize them,'' Mr. Ferraiolo said. ''They defy definition.'' Basically, they are the filthy rich -- whether they are rock stars, drug czars, home-run hitters, oil potentates or your neighborhood real estate agent (if you live in a really nice neighborhood). Statistically, there is a designation for them; they are known as ultra-H.N.W.I.'s (for high net-worth individuals), because they have more than $30 million in discretionary cash lying around. Fortunately for luxury carmakers, there is a growing number of them worldwide -- nearly 100,000 at last count, according to the World Wealth Report by the Capgemini consulting firm.
 The Drophead Coupe, which makes its official debut this month, will have no trouble finding its audience. In fact, the audience has already found it. The production run is said to be sold out for two years, although that does not mean the cars are unobtainable. The rich have been known to leave deposits with multiple dealerships. 
 Money, of course, talks; someone wearing a half-million-dollar watch is unlikely to blink at paying more than sticker price for a $400,000 car.
 Should you be lucky enough to obtain one, would you like it? I found it sublime, although the glovebox is too small for most sizes of the finer mustards.
 One of the first things you are likely to notice is the reverse-opening doors, hinged at the front edge instead of the rear. ''Each feature of a Rolls-Royce,'' Mr. Ferraiolo noted, ''is intended to delight and surprise.'' This feature facilitates grand entrances and exits, befitting celebutant occupants, in seats front or back.
 The leather seats are like fine furniture, so one can settle in and relax. The car is started much like a BMW 7 Series, because, well, it's all the same stuff, from the starter button to the confusing shift selector stalk. Most controls came courtesy of the parent company -- a reasonable idea, considering the economies of scale. 
 The BMW powertrain also leaves little to quarrel about. The V-12 engine makes a rousing 453 horsepower and produces a tremendous 531 pound-feet of torque.
 Lowering the top, which I predict an owner will want to do a lot, is a one-button, 25-second snap. The top's cover is another of those delight features, a swath of thick hand-rubbed teak, like the transom of a classic Chris-Craft powerboat. 
 On the road, the car handles impeccably. That is no surprise, given that it has a BMW-developed double wishbone front suspension and multilink rear. Driving the car is more of an event than a chore. Everybody treats you as if you were in a parade. You'll quickly tire, however, of waving. For endless hours of driving fun, invest in one of those Prince Charles window stick-ons, with the spring-loaded hand.
 Should you drive instead of your chauffeur, you will find the steering wheel of greater circumference than those on most of today's cars, with thin grips -- more like the wheel of a prewar Rolls. That is a touch a purist would appreciate.
 So is a special hood with a stainless-steel section down the middle, which constantly makes you feel as if you were driving one of those original block-long Phantoms from the century past. But the BMW-inspired craftsmanship will constantly remind you that this is a more technologically refined vehicle than anything the old British-owned Rolls-Royce ever made. The last Rolls convertible, the Corniche, flexed and squeaked like a pair of cheap wingtips.
 The Drophead is quieter because, among other things, its substructure is carved from blocks of aluminum, which are screwed, glued and riveted together with unforgiving precision.
 Despite the weight-saving construction, the Drophead still tips the scales at 5,776 pounds. But the company says the car will still knock out 0-to-60 sprints in a spritely 5.6 seconds.
 You can also flog it like a rented mule with little fear of a breakdown. If it should need service, don't worry, a four-year unlimited mileage warranty, with four years of free service, is included in the price. All thisfor a mere $407,000, or somewhat more if one opts to contact the company's new bespoke options supplier. You want those floormats to be made of real Persian carpets? How about mink seat covers? A solid-gold Spirit of Ecstasy ornament? 
 Ka-ching! 
 The manufacturer's suggested retail price, for those trying to keep up with the Joneses -- or the Rollses and Royces, in this case -- is now more than eight times Americans' annual median household income. 
 Are you still waiting for Reaganomics to trickle down to your level? Me too.
 INSIDE TRACK: Love is a many splendored bling.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a review of the Rolls-Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe last Sunday referred incorrectly to its doors. They are hinged at the rear, not the front.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CROWNING TOUCHES: Above, the large steering wheel says Rolls, but controls will be familiar to BMW drivers. Left, doors open from front for grand entrances. Bottom, folding trunk panel is picnic-friendly (pg. 10)
 PARADE CAR: Money talks, and ''Drophead Coupe'' is a $407,000 way to say convertible (pg. 1). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDPARENTS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); NAVIES (71%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



46 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: North Korea and U.S. Discuss Steps to End Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: GENEVA, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
High-ranking negotiators from the United States and North Korea convened Saturday for two days of talks meant to advance an international effort to end the North's nuclear program. 
 Their discussions are expected to focus on how North Korea will disable and account for its nuclear facilities, as promised in an agreement reached in February.
 Assistant Secretary of State Christopher R. Hill and his North Korean counterpart, Kim Kye-gwan, did not speak to reporters when they arrived Saturday at the United States Mission in Geneva, where the negotiations began.
 On Thursday, Mr. Hill indicated that Washington was ready to discuss dropping North Korea from its list of state sponsors of terrorism. That designation imposes a ban on arms-related sales and keeps North Korea from getting some types of aid.
 ''We will be figuring out at what stage that could be done,'' he told reporters. ''I'm not prepared to say precisely when it could be done at this point, but obviously it's an important issue with respect to our working group.''
 North Korea has agreed in principle to abandon its nuclear program in return for economic and diplomatic benefits, though progress has been slow.
 Under a Feb. 13 deal with South Korea, China, Japan, Russia and the United States, North Korea said it would disable its nuclear facilities and give a full accounting of its entire nuclear program, though details of how it would do so have not been made clear.
 United States officials contend that North Korea, which tested a nuclear device in October, may have enough nuclear fuel to make eight or more atomic weapons. Mr. Hill emphasized that the United States wanted to see details of North Korea's uranium enrichment program.
 The talks this weekend are also expected to touch on the fate of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea, a major issue in Japan.
 North Korea admitted in 2002 that its agents had kidnapped 13 Japanese, 5 of whom have since been repatriated. North Korea has said the others are dead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); TERRORISM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (78%); SWITZERLAND (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



47 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Our Lean Summer

BYLINE: By JAMES P. OTHMER. 
James P. Othmer is the author of ''The Futurist,'' a novel.

 BODY:
Mahopac, N.Y.
 FOR the first 15 summers of my life, my family took multiweek vacations on the Jersey Shore and in Montauk. When we weren't at the beach I spent most of my days with my friends on Lake Mahopac, water-skiing, fishing and exploring. But by the time my 16th summer arrived, my parents were broke and I was spending my days -- and most of the next four summers -- far from Montauk, the Shore and my beloved lake. I was spending them working for my father across the Hudson River in Rockland County, laying block at a mental institution. 
 One would think that spending arguably the most formative summers of one's life doing brute manual labor surrounded by the mentally ill, working for a recently well-off man struggling to save his house, would be disturbing if not damaging in and of itself. But I had a blast. And I'm not saying this in a ''when I was a kid I walked six miles barefoot each way to the mill'' presidential-candidate, back-story kind of way. I'm saying it because it was strange and hard and fun. And also because I made more in a day mixing mortar and laying block than any of my friends did in a week of lifeguarding, baby-sitting or stocking shelves at the Grand Union. Of course, it helped that I was 15, obsessed with baseball, girls and Jethro Tull, oblivious to the strain my parents were no doubt feeling. 
 Several years earlier we had a boat and a large brick house, and my father owned a single-engine Cessna in which he would fly us on jaunts to destinations like Block Island, Montauk and Montreal. Then he sold a thriving contracting business and invested everything in a commercial construction project that, combined with a recession, would be his downfall. The project was chronically behind schedule and over budget. 
 First the plane went, then the boat. To keep our house he worked at a number of jobs, including laying brick in Manhattan by day and driving a New York City cab at night. For my father, bidding on and winning the five-year masonry job renovating some 60 buildings at the Letchworth Village state mental institution represented a chance at financial redemption. For me it represented the first real adventure of my life.
 On my first day on the job, my friend Larry was backing a flatbed truck loaded with eight-inch block and a pallet of Portland cement into a tricky spot near a steep cliff. Before I could get out to direct him, an older, well-dressed, pipe-smoking gentleman emerged and with stoic surety began to guide us into place. Or so we thought. With the truck inches from going over the precipice of the cliff, we were saved by the shouts of my father. Our guide was a mental patient, a resident. 
 Larry and I thought this was hilarious, and Pipe-smoking Man became the first of many interesting friends we'd make. There was Eugene, the chronic chatterer, who had a thousand questions for us every day; Earl, the ballroom dancer/stripper; and Fred who replied to our merry greetings each morning with a string of ingenious, Tourette's-like profanities.
 One day we locked my brother in the subterranean, medieval ''Brain Room'' filled with formaldehyde jars of, yes, brains. On another my father broke up a spontaneous sing-along that Larry and I had arranged with a group of residents. And every day we mixed batch after batch of mortar and seemed to always have eight-inch blocks dangling from our calloused hands. But no matter how hard we worked we knew that come evening we'd still be able to swim or ski on the lake or go to a party in some remote field, and in September we'd be back in school.
 But for my father, who was more than 50 at the time, I imagine there was little fascination with the goings-on at a mental institution, no desire to conduct sing-alongs with the residents and no thrill in laying block, a job he had learned on the skyscrapers of Manhattan after returning from World War II and, surely, hoped he had outgrown. For my father the project was another huge risk. There were countless issues with unions, state inspectors and banks. But on the job he never showed it. No matter how hung-over or groggy the rest of us were as we piled into his car at 6 every morning, he was always wide awake, neatly dressed, freshly shaved and disturbingly chipper. 
 On a scaffold my father was all hustle and grace, a joy to watch with a trowel. And while the rest of us were always sweating, covered in cement, he was so clean that we would joke: with your eyes closed, a whiff of baby powder would alert you to his presence. He didn't abide idleness, and other than Larry and my older brother and my two brothers-in-law, none of my friends were ever invited back for a second day of work. 
 His most familiar lessons were: Mix another batch. Set up the next scaffold. Put gas in the mixer. Clean the tools. Never stand and watch. And stop goofing around with the residents.
 Late in August, on one of my last days at Letchworth Village, I was alone in an abandoned building, laying block on a scaffold. Larry had gone back to college upstate and my father had left for a night of driving a cab in the city. After almost four years, the job was winding down. We weren't about to buy a boat or another plane, but the house was safe again. 
 In a few days, after two years of redeeming myself in community college and saving several semesters' worth of tuition, I would leave for college in Boston. The late-day Hudson Valley air had an autumnal chill that to this day still makes me think of Washington Irving's Headless Horseman, and I would be lying if I said being alone in an abandoned building at a mental hospital didn't spook me. For company, I was listening to classic rock on a portable radio. 
 Even after four years of handling a trowel, I was far from being the master mason my father was, so when the man from the state came inside to watch me, I was particularly self-conscious. The trowel felt like a shovel, the blocks fought the plumb bubble on my level. I turned and nodded, and the man barely nodded in return. If he was an inspector he probably was not happy to see an apprentice doing the work of a mechanic. Despite the cool air, I began to sweat. 
 After a while, ''Just You and Me'' by Chicago came on. It slowly built momentum, with the horns playing an increasingly aggressive role. Too much so for the inspector, I thought. But when I turned to lower the volume, I saw that the man whom I thought was the inspector was dancing. Dancing and now playing the air trombone -- with gusto. 
 This startled me so much I almost fell off the scaffold. I screamed, ''What are you doing?'' Then I picked up my block hammer because I was certain that the next logical progression after playing air trombone would be for him to kill the boy mason. But he just continued to dance and play, and I felt silly for expecting anything different.
 When I got in my car to leave for the last time, Pipe-smoking Man was there again to back me out. I waved thanks and drove off in the opposite direction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); WATERSKIING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); WATER SPORTS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); MASONRY CONTRACTORS (68%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (62%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); SMOKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007



48 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; CONNECTICUT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Charting a New Course for Bridgeport

 BODY:
Bridgeport is a place better known for poverty and political scandal than the economic prosperity that is often anticipated but never arrives in full measure. The current mayor is in trouble, his predecessor remains in prison, and the city is still relatively poor. 
 There is a feeling, though, that this mayoral election could help the city turn the corner, particularly the Democratic primary on Sept. 11. Mayor John M. Fabrizi is not running for re-election, undermined by his past cocaine use and his ill-advised decision to testify on behalf of a convicted sex offender. Voters are fortunate that the leading contenders are two experienced, smart public officials. Their styles, however, are very different. 
 Both have been involved in city politics for many years, but Bill Finch, a state senator, is seen as the insider, the smooth negotiator who rarely raises his voice and who was chosen by the Democratic Town Committee to run after polls showed that Mr. Fabrizi would have a tough time winning re-election. He was on the City Council for nearly 10 years and is in his fourth term in the Senate. Mr. Finch's greatest passion is the environment, and he vows to make Bridgeport one of the country's most environmentally friendly cities if elected.
 Christopher Caruso, a state representative, is seen as the outsider, throwing verbal bombs and never shying away from confrontation. He has served in the General Assembly since 1991 and has a well-deserved reputation as a maverick, almost to the point of being contrary. He fought utility companies even before electricity prices soared in recent years, and he championed campaign finance reform before it became a public issue. He has long criticized the City Council in Bridgeport as being dominated by those who either work for the city or are related to city employees. Although he is a Democrat, he is more the party gadfly than a loyalist. 
 Both men are honest. Both have a good understanding of the city's primary needs: an end to cronyism, robust economic development, lower taxes, better schools. But Bridgeport also needs a leader who is flexible, who can work easily with others and who is a good listener.
 Much as we admire Mr. Caruso's love for the city and his populist instincts, we believe Mr. Finch is better suited for the job of mayor. 
 Mr. Finch promises to insist on more accountability in the city budget. He is calling for regular audits of the education budgets to eliminate waste. He promises to work for lower class sizes and increased spending for school health clinics. He has proposals to freeze property taxes for the elderly and wants to work for statewide tax reform to help lower the taxes in Bridgeport. Mr. Finch says he will push forward economic development, particularly the long-delayed Steel Point project. 
 Mr. Finch is less convincing when he says that efficiencies in government will help him significantly pare its size. He needs to be bolder in confronting the cronyism that is a real problem in city government. To chart a new course for Bridgeport, he needs to be willing to tread on the toes of Democratic party leaders who sponsored his candidacy. 
 Mr. Finch vows to be an agent of change. We will hold him to his word and hope voters make him the Democratic candidate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); TAX REFORM (66%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (66%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX RELIEF (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); COCAINE (56%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007



49 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; CONNECTICUT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Our Choices in Connecticut

 BODY:
Of all the state capitals across the country, Hartford is the poorest, and it is difficult to think of a single problem it does not have. The city's need for leadership moved voters to change the city charter in 2002 and switch to a strong-mayor form of government. Eddie Perez was the first mayor elected under this system, and he is running for re-election this year as the endorsed Democrat, but he faces three opponents in the primary on Sept. 11. Of these, the two most competitive are Art Feltman, a state representative, and I. Charles Mathews. 
 Mayor Perez has helped foster some improvements. He brought in a dynamic superintendent, Steven Adamowski, to help turn around Hartford's struggling school system. Developers are building -- and selling -- high-end housing downtown. The new convention center is attracting visitors and business to the city's center. 
 But during Mr. Perez's tenure several high-profile companies have left Hartford for the suburbs, among them ING and Metropolitan Life. His relationship with the governor's office can be described as more confrontational than constructive, even though Hartford relies on state support for well over half of its budget.
 Mr. Perez also awarded a lucrative, no-bid city parking lot contract to Abraham Giles, who controls important votes on the Democratic Town Committee. In so doing, he acted against the recommendation of the city's parking authority, showing a troubling willingness to grant city business to political allies. 
 Hartford can and must do better. The most promising candidate in the race is Mr. Mathews, who served three terms on the Hartford City Council and was deputy mayor in the early 1990s. Mr. Feltman, who represents the city in the General Assembly, is an energetic candidate, but we believe Mr. Mathews's vision for the city holds more potential. Mr. Mathews, once a high school dropout, went on to serve in the Marine Corps and obtain degrees from Wesleyan University and Cornell Law School. He has been a lawyer for United Technologies and vice president of Quaker Oats, and is now a training consultant for business and government clients.
 His life experiences give Mr. Mathews an ability to relate to the poor and the power brokers alike. He promises to put money into preschool, full-day kindergarten and adult literacy. He advocates increasing the size and diversity of the police force both for the safety of neighborhoods and success in integrating public schools, saying suburban parents will be reluctant to send their children to Hartford schools if they are concerned about safety.
 Mr. Mathews says that economic development in Hartford has not trickled down to the average resident, and he believes that encouraging and supporting the development of small business is crucial to better neighborhoods and a more vibrant city. 
 Building bridges -- between the city and state governments, between corporations and city hall -- is key to helping Hartford prosper, Mr. Mathews believes. He is well-qualified to encourage that. 
 The Times endorses Mr. Mathews in the Democratic primary election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); POLICE FORCES (58%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007



50 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET CHECKING IN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Party Central, For a Richer Crowd

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
THE Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas is undergoing a $750 million renovation and expansion and is expected to emerge with its party image intact but with a broader -- and more upscale -- clientele, according to its new owners. 
 The Hard Rock was bought by the Morgans Hotel Group in February for $770 million with an equity partner; it is the first project undertaken by the company without the guiding hand of Ian Schrager. 
 The hotel is an odd fit within the portfolio of Morgans, which operates and has ownership interests in 10 hotels with more than 2,700 hotel rooms. All are high-end, design-heavy boutique hotels, like the Hudson in New York and the Delano in Miami. 
 Mr. Schrager was a co-founder of the hotel company in 1984; it later became known as Ian Schrager Hotels, before the name was switched back in 2004. Mr. Schrager stepped down as chief executive in 2005 but remained as a consultant until March of this year. Mr. Schrager and Marriott International recently announced a partnership to develop a boutique chain for that company. 
 But the Hard Rock, almost as legendary as Mr. Schrager, is a different animal entirely. Opened in 1995 by Peter Morton (a co-founder of the Hard Rock Cafe chain in London in 1971), the hotel and casino became known for creating a party scene that catered to a young demographic. 
 Situated off the Strip, it was one of the first casinos to put a large bar in the middle of the gambling floor and to charge for drinks, as opposed to putting the casino in the center and giving away drinks to attract gamblers. 
 And at a time when Las Vegas was trying to become a more family-friendly destination, the Hard Rock took a different tack, luring the Hollywood set, notably Matt Damon and Ben Affleck in their single days. In addition to the rock shows and bar scene, the ''Rehab'' pool party on Sundays is still known for its no-holds-barred atmosphere. The hotel and its pool remain open during the renovation.
 ''It's a somewhat unusual purchase for our company,'' said W. Edward Scheetz, who has been president and chief executive of the Morgans Hotel Group since 2005. ''But we saw a huge opportunity to take what was there, and do a little better job with it, expand and upgrade it to appeal to a broader audience. It hasn't been reinvented over the years.''
 The job of reinventing such a strongly branded hotel and casino has been given to Mark Zeff, founder and president of Zeff Design, an architecture, design and branding firm based in New York. 
 The project involves not only renovating existing spaces, but also adding two towers, for a total of 1,100 rooms.
 Also planned are a new concert space, pool, spa and gambling area; additional restaurants and retail space; and new meeting and convention space that will cater to business conferences for the music and media industries. The projected completion date is mid-2009. 
 ''We're taking the Hard Rock up a notch,'' said Matt Armstrong, senior vice president for business development for Morgans in Las Vegas, who is overseeing not just the Hard Rock but also two other projects that Morgans has in the works in a joint venture with the Boyd Gaming Corporation. ''At the Hard Rock, we're looking to attract somebody today who goes to the Wynn or Bellagio but who is looking for a hipper, edgier experience''
 The challenge, according to Mr. Zeff, is broadening the clientele without alienating Hard Rock loyalists. To that end, one of the two new towers will have a separate entrance with its own European-style pool (in other words, topless) and spa (to be designed in conjunction with Amy Sacco, a nightclub entrepreneur in New York), and a handful of 2,000-square-foot deluxe suites, to be designed by celebrities or with an individualized theme. 
 ''People in the rock world or who aspire to be in that environment are not thinking about Pete Townshend's guitar,'' Mr. Zeff said, referring to the memorabilia for which the Hard Rock is known. ''They're thinking about a Vegas rock-star lifestyle.'' 
 And while Mr. Zeff's mission is to capture a more upscale crowd, it has to be achieved without losing that rock-star edge.
 Mr. Zeff created spaces like a tattoo-parlor-inspired lounge called Wasted Space in conjunction with Carey Hart, a motocross racer who grew up in Las Vegas. And though the concepts are still evolving, room types are being based around the themes of ''glamour girl,'' ''party girl,'' ''dominatrix'' and ''biker girl.'' 
 ''You've got loyalists who want the old wooden floors and center bar'' on the existing casino floor, Mr. Zeff said. ''But there's a more sophisticated demographic that wants to come to the Hard Rock and party, but go home to a beautiful room with 600-thread-count sheets on the bed.''
 He said that ''we're developing the brand in different ways, so that when you arrive there's better service.'' 
 ''It's not going to be this 'Hard Rock help yourself and listen to the music' thing,'' he added. ''It's going to reflect the Morgans Hotel concept. It's a difficult project in that respect.''
 More than 10 years after the Hard Rock pioneered a new brand of hotel and casino, it faces much more competition for what it sees as the more sophisticated party demographic. In 2003, the MGM Grand opened Tabu, which is considered the first of the ''ultralounges,'' known for mixing a Vegas party atmosphere with a more upscale, sexy decor, with high-tech sound and video systems, low-slung couches and chairs, and V.I.P. rooms. Many more ultralounges have opened since.
 ''The most profitable hotels are at the higher end,'' said Keith Schwer, a professor of economics at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, and director of the Center for Business and Economic Research. ''The higher end has done better basically because the economy has done better and people are willing to spend. So there is a lot of building on the high end in the works.'' 
 THE city's general construction boom, of course, is continuing. In the next five years, $30 billion is being invested to build 40,000 new hotel rooms, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. This includes the $7.5 billion CityCenter, currently in development by MGM Mirage.
 With all the new development and competition for ''Hard Rock's core consumer,'' said Jeremy Aguero, a principal analyst at Applied Analysis, an economic and market research firm based in Las Vegas, ''it's going to be a challenge.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After a $750 million renovation, the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas will offer a ''party girl'' room, center, and a tattoo-parlor-inspired lounge, Wasted Space, bottom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZEFF DESIGN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); FAMILY (64%)

COMPANY: HARD ROCK HOTEL HOLDINGS LLC (84%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); MORGANS HOTEL GROUP CO (58%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (84%); MHGC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (84%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%)

PERSON: MATT DAMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



51 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Subprime Time

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN

 BODY:
We are no longer shocked when the Dow Jones industrial average plunges 10 percent -- as it did this summer -- or when a single hedge fund, this one run by Goldman Sachs, drops 30 percent in a week. But real estate, we thought, was different. Hedge funds execute hundreds of trades a day, often according to the whims of a computer; people buy their homes one at a time and usually retain them for years. But last month's market turmoil revealed a doleful transition for real estate. Formerly the most prosaic and dependable of investments, homes over the last 30 years had been turned into trading chips for Wall Street. And now, even at a time when the economy is still growing apace, two million Americans are suddenly said to be at risk of losing their homes to foreclosure. How did real estate become an industry with the vulnerabilities of esoteric financial instruments? 
 In the golden age of American home buying -- the years after World War II -- savings-and-loan institutions or government agencies supplied returning G.I.'s with fixed 30-year mortgages. Home prices appreciated, steadily but at modest rates, and lending fiascoes were rare. And homeownership rates climbed. The buyers of that era were not necessarily more cautious than today's; they simply spent what their bankers lent them. The bankers, persnickety folks that they were, required that buyers demonstrate sufficient income to qualify for a mortgage. They did this because a) they would get stuck with the property if the buyer defaulted and b) regulators insisted on prudence.
 The world began to change in the late 1970s, when Salomon Brothers, in the person of a banker named Lewis Ranieri, pioneered the mortgage security. This showed a flash of genius. Even though each unit of real estate continued to be a slow-moving, illiquid asset, Ranieri perceived that the underlying mortgages could be traded as rapidly as stocks and bonds. Instead of keeping his mortgages in a drawer, the banker on Main Street could unload his risk by selling them to Salomon. The banker was thus converted from a long-term lender to a mere originator of loans.
 Salomon and other institutions would take the mortgages sold by banks and stitch together bonds backed by the payments of many mortgagees, which they sold to investors. Voila! Ranieri had knitted a group of inert mortgages into a tradable security. The mortgage market thus obtained liquidity, which, according to Wall Street, made mortgages cheaper and benefited us all. Once the mortgage originator became, in effect, a supplier to Wall Street, new, often unregulated nonbanking companies jumped into the game of brokering and also issuing mortgages. Over time, this weakened lending standards.
 As Robert Rodriguez, a mutual fund manager for First Pacific Advisors (where I own shares), declared in a speech in June, ''The distancing of the borrower from the lender has contributed to the development of lax underwriting standards.'' Rodriguez's point was that investors in the securities, being remote from the actual real estate, could hardly be expected to scrutinize the underlying mortgages loan by loan. Most delegated the task to ratings agencies, and in time the agencies, intoxicated by the booming market, also grew lax. Meanwhile, Wall Street, sensing the appetite of investors, devised exotic ways of repackaging mortgages. Investors bought these securities in bulk, just as Goldman bought stocks.
 The absence of scrutiny on Wall Street had a profound effect on mortgage origination. As mortgage bankers discovered that investors would buy virtually any loan whatsoever, they naturally lowered their standards. What difference whether a loan was sound if you could flip it in 48 hours? The market thus corrupted, it only wanted for the right circumstances to implode. And over the last few years, as Robert Barbera, the chief economist at the investment advisory firm ITG, observed, the Federal Reserve took short-term interest rates from 1 percent to 5 1/4 percent. This raised mortgage rates and put home buyers at risk of being priced out of the market. But bankers lent to them anyway, offering, in effect, ''junk mortgages'' -- risky loans with low teaser rates (and much higher rates later), as well as other deviations from sound finance. Lenders and borrowers alike knew that such loans were dicey; they were counting on the borrowers to refinance -- which, as long as home prices kept rising, was a cinch. Naturally, when prices stopped rising, the music stopped.
 What happened over the last generation is that housing was turned from a market that responded to consumers to one largely driven by investors. Liberal mortgage financing pushed home prices higher -- and younger, first-time buyers were effectively priced out of the market. Rates of homeownership are scarcely any higher than in the mid-1960s.
 There is no going back to the 3 percent fixed mortgages, single-earner households and tract housing of that era, but housing -- like any investment market -- could surely use a dose of (re-)regulation. At the very least, there should be a clear line between a mortgage company and a casino. Homeowners should not be induced to gamble on mortgages that will leave them insolvent should prices fall. Fewer mortgages might be written, but more mortgagees would stay solvent. And if the mortgage market surrendered a smidgen of its vaunted liquidity, it would be no great loss.
 It was John Maynard Keynes who observed the paradox of securities markets: their very liquidity, which investors perceive as a safeguard, creates the conditions for disaster. ''Each individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is 'liquid,' '' Keynes wrote, and the belief that he can exit the market at will ''calms his nerves and makes him much more willing to run a risk.'' The catch is that investors, collectively, can never exit in unison. Whenever they try, panic and losses are the sure result. Once, you had to be a hedge-fund player to experience such a trauma. Now, thanks to the dubious wonders of financial engineering, home buyers are exposed to the very same risks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); FIRST PACIFIC ADVISORS INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: LEW RANIERI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



52 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Creator of Modern Singapore Is Ever Alert to Perils

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS and WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Lee Kuan Yew, who turned a malarial island into a modern financial center with a first-world skyline, is peering ahead again into this city-state's future, this time with an idea to seal it off with dikes against the rising tides of global warming.
 ''Let's start thinking about it now,'' he said during an interview in late August, in what could be the motto for a lifetime of nation building. Ever since Singapore's difficult birth in 1965, when it was expelled from Malaysia, he said, the country has struggled to stay alive in a sea of economic and political forces beyond its control.
 ''If the water goes up by three, four, five meters, what will happen to us?'' he said, laughing. ''Half of Singapore will disappear.''
 For all his success, Mr. Lee, 83, remains on the alert for perils that may exist only on the distant horizon: the rising role of China in the region as the United States looks the other way, the buffeting of the world economy, even climate change. 
 A British-educated lawyer who led Singapore for 31 years, Mr. Lee is one of Asia's remarkable personalities, a world figure whose guest book is filled with the names of international political and financial leaders.
 His creation, modern Singapore, is an economic powerhouse with one of the world's highest per capita incomes and high-quality schools, health care and public services that have made it a magnet for global labor. Foreigners make up roughly a fifth of its 4.5 million residents.
 In his office in the former headquarters of the island's British colonial rulers, Mr. Lee sat back in a zippered blue jacket, sipping small cups of hot water and laughing often, seemingly as different as could be from the bare-knuckled political infighter he has described himself as.
 ''I've done my bit,'' said Mr. Lee, who stepped down as prime minister in 1990 and now watches over the country -- and occasionally takes part in political disputes -- with a seat in the cabinet and the title of minister mentor. His eldest son, Lee Hsien Loong, is prime minister.
 ''To understand Singapore,'' he said, ''you've got to start off with an improbable story: It should not exist.'' 
 It is a nation with almost no natural resources, without a common culture -- a fractured mix of Chinese, Malays and Indians, relying on wits to stay afloat and prosper.
 ''We have survived so far, 42 years,'' he said. ''Will we survive for another 42? It depends upon world conditions. It doesn't depend on us alone.''
 This sense of vulnerability is Mr. Lee's answer to all his critics, to those who say Singapore is too tightly controlled, that it leashes the press, suppresses free speech, curtails democracy, tramples on dissidents and stunts entrepreneurship and creativity in its citizens.
 ''The answer lies in our genesis,'' he said. ''To survive, we have to do these things. And although what you see today -- the superstructure of a modern city -- the base is a very narrow one and could easily disintegrate.''
 Asked whether, looking back, he felt he might have gone too far in crushing his opponents, sometimes with ruinous lawsuits, sometimes with long jail terms, he answered: ''No, I don't think so. I never killed them. I never destroyed them. Politically, they destroyed themselves.''
 One of his concerns now, Mr. Lee said, is that the United States has become so preoccupied with the Middle East that it is failing to look ahead and plan in this part of the world.
 ''I think it's a real drag slowing down adjusting to the new situation,'' he said, describing what he called a lapse that worries Southeast Asian countries that count on Washington to balance the rising economic and diplomatic power of China.
 ''Without this draining of energy, attention and resources for Iraq, Iran, Lebanon, Israel, Palestine, there would have been deep thinking about the long-term trends -- working out possible options that the U.S. could exercise to change the direction of long-term trends more in its favor,'' Mr. Lee said.
 As the United States focuses on the Middle East, Mr. Lee said, the Chinese are busy refining their policies and building the foundations of more cooperative long-term relationships in Asia. ''They are making strategic decisions on their relations with the region,'' he said.
 And this is where tiny Singapore sees itself as a model for China, the world's most-populous country. ''They've got to be like us,'' Mr. Lee said, ''with a very keen sense of what is possible, and what is not.''
 Every year, he said, Chinese ministers meet twice with Singaporean ministers to learn from their experience. Fifty mayors of Chinese cities visit every three months for courses in city management.
 Singapore's secret, Mr. Lee said, is that it is ''ideology free.'' It possesses an unsentimental pragmatism that infuses the workings of the country as if it were in itself an ideology, he said. When considering an approach to an issue, he says, the question is: ''Does it work? Let's try it, and if it does work, fine, let's continue it. If it doesn't work, toss it out, try another one.''
 The yardstick, he said, is: ''Is this necessary for survival and progress? If it is, let's do it.''
 Hoping to attract more tourists, for example, Singapore is building two huge casinos, despite Mr. Lee's expressed distaste for them.
 ''I don't like casinos,'' he said, ''but the world has changed and if we don't have an integrated resort like the ones in Las Vegas -- Las Vegas Sands -- we'll lose.
 ''So, let's go,'' he said. ''Let's try and still keep it safe and mafia-free and prostitution-free and money-laundering-free. Can we do it? I'm not sure, but we're going to give it a good try.''
 Even on social issues on which he has tended to seem inflexible, Mr. Lee sounded almost mellow.
 ''I think we have to go in whatever direction world conditions dictate if we are to survive and to be part of this modern world,'' he said. ''If we are not connected to this modern world, we are dead. We'll go back to the fishing village we once were.''
 For example, on the issue of homosexuality, he said, ''we take an ambiguous position. We say, O.K., leave them alone, but let's leave the law as it is for the time being, and let's have no gay parades.''
 Although gay sex remains technically illegal in Singapore, the government has indicated it will not actively enforce the law.
 China, Hong Kong and Taiwan already have more liberal policies regarding gays, he noted. ''It's a matter of time,'' he said. ''But we have a part Muslim population, another part conservative older Chinese and Indians. So, let's go slowly. It's a pragmatic approach to maintain social cohesion.''
 As for people's adherence to the ''Asian values'' -- hierarchy, respect and order -- that Singapore is founded on, he said: ''It's already diluted, and we can see it in the difference between the generations. It's inevitable.''
 In his own family, generational values are changing. From father to children to grandchildren, he said, command of the Chinese language has weakened, along with the culture it embodies.
 ''They had a basic set of traditional Confucian values,'' he said of his children, two sons and a daughter. ''Not my grandchildren.''
 One grandson has just begun studies at M.I.T., he said; the other is heading to the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
 This well-educated younger generation reflects the social dichotomy of Singapore, Mr. Lee said, in which the top 20 percent of the population is as cosmopolitan as any, surfing the Internet and traveling the world without constraint. ''This is not a closed society,'' he insisted.
 But at the same time, he said, the government must protect the less affluent, less educated people from information that might upset or confuse them. These are people ''who are not finding it so comfortable to suddenly find the world changed, their world, their sense of place, their sense of position in society.''
 They are the ones who he said had to be pulled into the future as he seeks to make Singapore ''a first-world oasis in a third-world region.''
 ''We built up the infrastructure,'' he said. ''The difficult part was getting the people to change their habits so that they behaved more like first-world citizens, not like third-world citizens spitting and littering all over the place.''
 So Singapore embarked on what Mr. Lee called ''campaigns to do this, campaigns to do that.''
 Do not chew gum. Do not throw garbage from rooftops. Speak good English. Smile. Perform spontaneous acts of kindness.
 Paradoxically, he said, if Singapore had not been so poor it might never have transformed itself and prospered as it has. His warnings about vulnerability and collapse are a constant theme to persuade his people to accept limits on their freedoms.
 ''Supposing we had oil and gas, do you think I could get the people to do this?'' Mr. Lee said. ''No. If I had oil and gas, I'd have a different people, with different motivations and expectations.
 ''It's because we don't have oil and gas and they know that we don't have, and they know that this progress comes from their efforts,'' he said. ''So please do it and do it well.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MALARIA (78%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); LAWYERS (51%)

PERSON: LEE HSIEN LOONG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (95%); MALAYSIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



53 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL3-10
 Stalemate in Afghanistan
 The Taliban have driven government forces out of roughly half of a strategic area in southern Afghanistan that American and NATO officials had declared a success story last year in their campaign to clear out insurgents, Afghan officials say. 1 
 Sunni Aid Program Hastened
 President Bush has approved accelerating a program to increase economic assistance directly to Sunni Arab regions where former insurgents have joined American forces in fighting extremist Sunni groups, American officials say.4 
 West Bank Dump, a Symbol
 A garbage dump where nearly 250 Palestinian boys sift trash to eke out a living for their families is a symbol of the impact of Jewish settlement in the West Bank and of the dire state of the Palestinian economy. 3
 NATIONAL10-25
 After the Presidency
 In nearly seven years, President Bush has rarely let his guard down with journalists to reveal much of his personal side. But through several interviews with a biographer, Mr. Bush shared his inner life at the White House, as he prepares for the final days of his administration and the ones that come after. He at times mused philosophically and introspectively, and at others spoke forcefully about his confidence in his own decisions. 1 Senator Craig Resigns
 Within hours of the disclosure of Senator Larry E. Craig's arrest and conviction after an undercover sex sting, Republican Senate leaders concluded that the exploding political scandal needed a fast resolution, one that necessitated the Idaho Republican's prompt resignation. He announced his resignation under pressure. 1
 Guantanamo Legal Battle
 The legal battle over the rights of the hundreds of men held as enemy combatants at Guantanamo Bay has lasted more than five years, including two rounds in the Supreme Court. Now, as the parties prepare for their next Supreme Court confrontation this fall, the arguments have come full circle to the role of federal courts. 14 2 Egyptians Indicted
 Two Egyptian college students were indicted on federal charges of transporting explosives across state lines. 14
 NEW YORK/REGION29-31
 Views of 9/11 Grief
 As another the Sept. 11 anniversary nears, many feel that the commemorations are excessive and vacant. But many others bristle at this such talk, especially those who lost relatives.1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INDICTMENTS (86%); POLITICS (77%); WRITERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LANDFILLS (75%); APPROVALS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); LARRY CRAIG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); CUBA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



54 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Not in Whose Backyard

BYLINE: By AMANDA GRISCOM LITTLE

 BODY:
Consider this curiosity of United States environmental policy: Countless federal laws have been written to preserve far-flung wilderness that Americans rarely visit (the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, for instance) and endangered species that we scarcely see (from longhorn fairy shrimp to piping plovers). Yet no legislation has been tailored to protect a landscape that is perhaps the most vulnerable: the low-income communities that shelter most of America's polluting facilities.
 Later this month, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton will introduce the Environmental Justice Renewal Act, which would direct additional federal funds to assisting environmentally beleaguered communities. The bill complements another proposal Clinton helped sponsor, which would require the Environmental Protection Agency to monitor and mitigate the health impacts of power plants, waste-transfer stations, truck fleets, refineries and other industrial infrastructure, which tend to be overwhelmingly concentrated in America's poorest neighborhoods. 
 Both bills are expected to meet opposition in Congress. Nevertheless, their introduction suggests a coming of age for the environmental-justice movement. The movement -- whose proponents hold that minority and low-income populations should not be subjected to more environmental burdens than others -- has been growing at the grass-roots level for decades. Yet disproportionately high pollution levels continue to plague poor communities, and race often correlates with which populations are hit the hardest: African-Americans, for instance, are 79 percent more likely than whites to live in areas where air-pollution levels pose health risks, according to a 2005 Associated Press analysis of E.P.A. data. Lead-poisoning rates among Hispanic and black children are roughly double those among white children.
 Environmental-justice advocates take pains to assert that they are neither antidevelopment nor anti-industry. ''We can't fight this battle at the expense of jobs,'' says Majora Carter, a MacArthur fellow from the South Bronx, where children's asthma rates are several times the national average. ''We need to work; we also need to breathe -- our goal is to find a way of doing both.'' Carter and the organization she founded, Sustainable South Bronx, have fought dozens of proposals for new or expanded industrial sites, while simultaneously exhorting green businesses -- like a high-tech recycling plant -- to bring skilled jobs to the community. (The latter goal got a boost this summer when the House and Senate passed bills to put about $100 million toward training workers for jobs in green energy.) 
 But are environmental-justice goals always compatible with economic growth? There is a debate, says Daniel Doctoroff, New York City's deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding: ''On the one hand, environmental issues, versus having more jobs.'' Real estate is scarce. No matter how clean and efficient industrial sites are, he says, ''there will always be things that nobody wants, and we have to find places to put them.'' And taxpayers will inevitably question why they should foot the bill for a sewage-treatment plant on the Upper East Side when it could be placed in a far less expensive neighborhood.
 Some critics of the environmental-justice movement go further. It is not surprising, they say, that land near toxic sites is inexpensive and that the people who live there are poor. ''It's neither possible nor desirable in a free society to have all groups living equally close to everything -- be it libraries or landfills,'' argues Michael Steinberg, a Washington lawyer with clients in the chemical industry. ''Even the old Soviet Politburo would have a hard time pulling that one off.'' The mere fact of disparate impact, he says, is not evidence of intentional discrimination in the placement of polluting facilities -- it's just economics.
 On the other side of the spectrum, some environmental-justice advocates say Clinton's proposals don't go far enough. Norris McDonald, president of the African American Environmentalist Association, calls the bills ''a Band-Aid, nothing more.'' He points out that they don't give citizens the legal power to sue the industries polluting their backyards. McDonald sees Clinton's recent efforts as a political move to secure the black vote.
 Two years ago, Clinton and Barack Obama collaborated on a community-health bill. Now environmental-justice activists are waiting to see if Obama, who has been cautious on race-related issues, will respond to Clinton's latest proposals with a countermeasure: ''Okay, Barack,'' McDonald taunts, ''you gonna dance or let Hillary have the floor?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (76%); POWER PLANTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); ASTHMA (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); LEAD (65%); LEAD POISONING (57%); POISONINGS (50%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



55 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: A Star Without a Charm Offensive

BYLINE: By CARYN JAMES

 BODY:
CLIVE OWEN'S latest film was directed by that master of moodiness, Wong Kar-wai, and lasts all of 20 seconds. In a commercial for Lancome's new men's fragrance -- shown on television outside Britain and the United States but easily found online -- he strides down a hall, a suggestive expression on his face, to embrace a beautiful woman. That's it. Yet this stylized minifilm captures some elemental aspects of his career. 
 There is, obviously, the movie-star handsomeness. But there is also his pattern of working with top directors, and above all his minimalist acting style: so much emotion on his face, so little visible movement. That subtle approach, nuanced so the slightest glance registers with the camera, has shaped his finest, deepest work: in 2004 as a jealous, manipulative doctor in Mike Nichols's ''Closer'' (he got an Oscar nomination for that), and last year as the disaffected alcoholic who helps save the human race in Alfonso Cuaron's visionary ''Children of Men.''
 And arriving almost back to back, his two new full-length films create a moment that highlights his immense versatility. 
 ''Shoot 'Em Up'' (opening Friday) begins with an image found in several of his movies, as well as the Lancome spot: an extreme close-up of his eyes, shrewdly hinting at surprises to come. Here the camera pulls back and reveals him to be a rumpled guy sitting on a bench munching a carrot, which he soon uses as a lethal weapon, stabbing a villain through the throat. And if a cartoonish action movie can find a way to exploit his looks, how much easier for ''Elizabeth: The Golden Age'' (opening Oct. 12), in which he plays a seductive Walter Raleigh opposite Cate Blanchett as the middle-aged Elizabeth I. Wrenching a line furiously out of context, the film's trailer has her take one look at him and say, ''Well, well'' in a way suggesting that it's Elizabethan for ''Ooh-la-la.'' 
 We met in a downtown cafe when he was in New York a few weeks ago. His greenish eyes are wider than they seem on screen, as if he is perpetually surprised; he talks fast, in a casual, friendly way. But one quality sets him apart from most actors and offers a clue to his minimalist approach: He does not need to charm everyone who crosses his path, just as he does not need his characters to be loved on screen.
 ''The worst piece of advice I was ever given by somebody, a long, long time ago, was 'Clive, it's all about likability,' '' he said. Who advised that? ''I'm not telling,'' he laughed, but ''I remember going, what a ridiculous thing to say about acting.'' 
 Even now, ''I'm fearless about that,'' he said. ''I don't go into my parts wanting the audience to like me. I'm much more interested that they understand and believe me.'' 
 His fierce refusal to play the likability game is a huge asset artistically. Even his heroic characters have the depths and shadows of real men. And without an easily pegged persona, he carries little baggage to the screen. If Tom Hanks is the Nice Guy and Jack Nicholson the Devilish Guy, Clive Owen is whatever guy he happens to play. 
 But that slightly chilly relationship with the public may also account for the one thing missing from his career: a megahit, a ''Bourne''-size franchise to call his own. In last year's remake of ''The Pink Panther'' he even had a cameo mocking rumors that he was in line to be the new James Bond. Steve Martin, as Inspector Clouseau, walks into a casino where Mr. Owen, urbane in a tuxedo, introduces himself: ''Boswell. Nigel Boswell,'' he says. ''Agent 006. Know what that means?''
 '' 'Course I do,'' says Clouseau. ''You are one short of the big time.'' (Mr. Owen has always said he was never approached for Bond.) 
 ''Shoot 'Em Up,'' the first splashy action movie he has had to carry, is decidedly un-Bond-like, a grittier, more youthful film. His character, known only as Smith, delivers a baby in the middle of a shootout and, with the help of a breast-feeding prostitute, protects the boy from killers. This is not the career choice of someone calculating the next big thing at the multiplex.
 The Looney Tunes carrot sets the tone for violence that is playfully over the top, yet Mr. Owen portrays Smith with utter realism. ''I wouldn't have liked to have done that film nodding all the time, saying, 'It is ridiculous, you see, it's ridiculous,' '' he said. ''I have always thought cinema audiences are pretty sophisticated,'' and the heart of screen acting is ''communicating something as economically and concisely as you can.'' 
 Michael Davis, the film's writer and director, said: ''He would come to me and say: 'You don't have to have the character say so much. You're going to see it on my face. Why don't you change these three sentences to these three words?' ''
 ''The Golden Age'' proves he can play a traditionally dashing romantic hero: in a central scene Raleigh tells Elizabeth about discovering land, describing his adventure in veiled sexual terms. But ''Shoot 'Em Up'' seems more typical: it comes from the part of him drawn to thornier types. 
 He gives what may be his most moving performance as one of those unheroic heroes in ''Children of Men.'' His character, Theo, is a onetime idealist recruited to help the first woman to become pregnant in 18 years escape groups trying to exploit her. 
 ''I usually have a very strong instinct when I read a script,'' he said. ''I really wasn't sure about doing that film because the character is so apathetic. You're playing somebody who's depressed and cynical and so reluctant.'' He continued, ''I just wasn't sure I saw my way into that.'' Even now he can only say, ''I felt very strongly that there just had to be an overwhelming sadness about the guy.'' 
 He is clearly better at acting than at dissecting how he does it, and Mr. Cuaron laughed knowingly when told that his star was vague when talking about their process. ''The thing you have to know about Clive is that he's not an intellectual in the way he approaches his character,'' he said by phone. ''He's completely instinctual. He may analyze the thing later and say, 'I understand why he does that.' '' 
 Mr. Cuaron can describe the subtlety of the performance, though. ''He knew there was a physical heaviness to the character reflecting the spiritual heaviness,'' he said. At the start, ''his shoulders are completely dropped, and every single muscle of his face is as if it were absolutely without gravity. As he's recovering his faith, the muscles in his face get stronger.''
 ''Children of Men'' was disastrous at the box office, but Mr. Owen shrugs off flops as well as fame. His early success taught him how fraught stardom can be. In 1990 he was the lead in a still-entertaining television series, ''Chancer'' (never shown in the United States and just released here on DVD), playing an ambitious, shady former banker. In Britain he became what George Clooney was to ''ER.'' 
 Every actor has his standard life story, and the Clive Owen saga became well known in Britain then. Nearly 43 now, he comes from the working-class town of Coventry, one of five brothers reared by his mother and stepfather. At about 12 he was the Artful Dodger in a school production of ''Oliver!'' and knew instantly, unshakably -- with the same unanalyzed instinct he brings to his roles -- that he wanted to be an actor. 
 Just a few years out of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts he got ''Chancer.'' The tabloid press came sniffing around and tracked down his father, who had left the family when Clive was 3 and hadn't seen him since. ''I was naive, and they threw every kind of tabloid newspaper into my trailer,'' he said of the reporters. ''I didn't realize you could say no, you could be discerning about who you spoke to. So anybody could come and grill me about my family. It just wasn't very pleasant.'' 
 Looking back, ''I never understand anybody that sits there and talks about the really important things in their lives in the media like that,'' he said. ''And so it just made me protective.''
 By 1998 and his American breakthrough in the independent film ''Croupier,'' he had figured out how to guard the line between the private and the public Clive. A dozen years ago he married Sarah-Jane Fenton, who had played Juliet to his Romeo on tour with the Young Vic. He shields their daughters, now 10 and 8, from the spotlight and the paparazzi with un-Hollywood-style common sense. ''You just don't take them to places where you're obviously going to be photographed,'' he said. 
 That may help explain why the lack of megastardom doesn't bother him. ''There's no part of me that is hankering for, that feels the need for that,'' he said. Well, what else would someone in his position say? 
 Patrick Marber, who wrote the theater and film versions of ''Closer'' and directed Mr. Owen in it on the London stage, said, ''Like any actor, I'm sure he'd love to be a big box-office success.'' But he added: ''He's genetically incapable of spending three months making a movie that he thinks is rubbish, and some actors can do that cheerfully. It's not because he's so moral, but he'd hate himself, and it would bore him.'' 
 Becoming the male face of Lancome isn't the move of someone snobbish about his art, but didn't anyone suggest it might not be the best career maneuver? ''No,'' Mr. Owen said, seeming amused at the idea, ''no one did.'' (Of course arty commercials have been good to him; in 2000 ''The Hire,'' a groundbreaking online series of short films for BMW, paired him with directors like Ang Lee and John Woo.) 
 However ambivalent he may be about fame, he is the undisputed star of his next films: a political thriller directed by Tom Tykwer (''Run, Lola, Run''), ''The International,'' and a drama about a widower with two sons, ''The Boys Are Back in Town,'' for Scott Hicks (''Shine''). And he has taken control of a project with the potential to become his franchise: he is executive producer and will star as Philip Marlowe in ''Trouble Is My Business,'' based on a 1939 Raymond Chandler story. He chose a Chandler piece that hadn't been filmed before, he said, because ''the last thing I need is to be compared to Humphrey Bogart.'' 
 Or maybe that absence of the typical actor's craving to be loved means he'll never get the blockbuster. Chatting about Robert Altman, who directed him in ''Gosford Park,'' he said: ''Altman told me that he never wooed an actor. He'd talk to them, and if they needed a bit of wooing, he'd have to back off, because he was never going to promise them things that he couldn't deliver.'' 
 That anecdote seems to reflect something fundamental to his career, so a week later on the phone I asked about it and his uningratiating screen style. ''It's fundamental only in the way that people ultimately respect honesty more than they do charm,'' he said, which sounds direct but may be slyer than it seems. Because, on second thought, that comment is quite charming in its honesty. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three faces of Clive Owen: as himself in New York, top
as a man of action in ''Shoot 'Em Up,'' above
and as Walter Raleigh, with Cate Blanchett, in ''Elizabeth: The Golden Age.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURIE SPARHAM/UNIVERSAL
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JAMES DITTIGER/NEW LINE CINEMA)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (89%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (77%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%)

COMPANY: LANCOME SA (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%)

PERSON: MIKE NICHOLS (79%); CATE BLANCHETT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



56 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: In Cuba, a Politically Incorrect Love of the Frigidaire

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
HAVANA
 ANYONE who thinks the cold war ended years ago clearly has not spent time in Cuban kitchens. 
 Before he disappeared from public life, an ailing Fidel Castro enlisted the prowess of Chinese industry last year to get rid of some of the most resilient totems of American imperialism: Frigidaire, Kelvinator and Westinghouse refrigerators from the 1950s. The government acquired more than 300,000 new Chinese replacements as the centerpiece of a project to improve energy efficiency in a cash-starved country and eliminate what Mr. Castro called ''dragons which devour our electricity.'' 
 But the vanquishing of these refrigerators (along with some Soviet models imported in the 1970s) has caused some wistfulness and angst here. In their decades of isolation from the American economy and from global prosperity, Cubans have been taught to take pride in the way they have kept grandiose old mechanical marvels running -- ancient Cadillacs and Russian-built Ladas included. 
 ''They took away my senor and replaced him with a little guy,'' said a 47-year-old cook who lives in the Reparto Zamora district in western Havana. Welcoming a visitor to her kitchen, she pointed to the slim, white Chinese-made Haier that had taken the place of the bulky, pink Frigidaire that had been in her family for 24 years.
 She called herself Moraima Hernandez, but indicated with a wink that she was concealing her real name -- the only way she felt able to speak without fear of retaliation. Well, up to a point. She declined to say why she felt Mr. Castro was casting a shadow over items as banal as household appliances. 
 Instead, she simply opened the Haier to reveal its meager contents: bottles of tap water, a few eggs, mustard, half an avocado and some ''textured picadillo,'' soy protein mixed with a bit of ground beef.
 Her old refrigerator was so big, she said nostalgically, that two legs of pork could fit inside.
 Continuing her tale, she said that it took eight men to carry the Frigidaire from her second-story apartment down to the street and that they had to remove part of her balcony to make way. The Haier, by contrast, was carried up with ease.
 The Chinese model makes less noise than the Frigidaire. And like many other refrigerators in Cuba, it already has an affectionate, if mocking. nickname: ''Llovizna,'' or ''Drippy,'' because of the moisture that accumulates on its shelves.
 Cubans do not have to switch to Chinese refrigerators, but there are strong incentives to comply. When the exchange program is offered to a town or neighborhood, it is presented as the apple of Fidel's eye, and as an opportunity to show one's patriotism while lowering one's electricity bill.
 But unlike education and health care in Cuba, refrigerators are not free. A concern for Cubans is the cost of the new Chinese models: about $200, a small fortune in a country where the average monthly wage is about $15. 
 Ten-year payment plans have been made available.
 But officials have already acknowledged problems in collecting installments. Granma, the Communist Party's daily newspaper, reported that provincial officials had promised ''actions intended to elevate payment discipline in the beneficiary population.''
 Of course, debt and interest remain elastic concepts in Cuba, which is not a member of the International Monetary Fund or any other multilateral lending organization. Today, its top trading partners are Venezuela, which provides Cuba with cheap oil, and China, which buys raw materials like nickel from Cuba while selling it items like refrigerators.
 The island's economic isolation, compounded by a United States embargo in place since the early 1960s, has made a necessity of preserving technology from before the revolution. Inspired by the ingenuity it took to keep American refrigerators working so long, a group of Cuban artists last year transformed 52 of them into art. They put on a show called ''Instruction Manual'' that was a big hit in Cuba and is making the rounds in Europe this year. 
 In the show, the artists Alejandro and Esteban Leyva pinned medals on an old G.E. refrigerator, painted it olive drab and named it ''General Electrico.'' Another artist, Alexis Leyva, installed oars on his refrigerator, drawing on the politically loaded symbol of the homemade boats Cubans use to leave the island illegally. Others were made into cars, skyscrapers a Trojan horse and a jail cell.
 Ernesto Garcia Pena, a painter, turned his into an eroticized female image. ''In this heat,'' he explained, ''the refrigerator is almost worshiped for its role as an absolute necessity of modern life. We treat it with very special affection.''
 Still, necessity most often trumps sentimentality in Cuba. Many thousands of old refrigerators are simply being taken to junkyards, where technicians recycle everything they can.
 According to the government, the refrigerators weigh an average of 122 pounds, including 93 pounds of retrievable steel, 18 of plastic, 3 of aluminum and 2 of copper.
 The steel goes to plants like Antillana de Acero in Havana, where it is transformed into construction material. The copper goes to the Empresa Conrado Benitez to produce telephone and electric cables. The aluminum is used to make kitchen utensils and parts for other appliances. 
 ''Where do the old refrigerators go?'' Granma asked in the headline of one of its many articles on Cuba's energy-efficiency drive. ''From them,'' the newspaper said, ''everything is reclaimed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cold War Relic: A 1950's-era American refrigerator dominates one woman's Havana apartment, top. Two artists, Alejandro Leyva, left, and Esteban Leyva, with their ''General Electrico,'' found a new use for an old appliance.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE GOITIA)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



57 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; NEW JERSEY; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Football Trumps All

 BODY:
Raising questions about how much Rutgers University spends on football is viewed in New Jersey as something akin to disloyalty. 
 Rutgers has long suffered with some terrible football teams. Now, with the Scarlet Knights coming off last year's 11-2 season, New Jersey is agog with talk of a Big East football championship this season -- and maybe even an invitation to join the Big Ten. Seats for home games this fall are just about sold out, something that certainly hasn't happened anytime recently.
 But at this time of fiscal woe in Trenton and at Rutgers, it would be pure insanity for state officials from Gov. Jon Corzine on down not to seriously question the university's preliminary plan to spend more than $100 million on expanding its football stadium. 
 Amid a near taxpayer revolt, the state faces a budget deficit of at least $2 billion that nobody knows how to deal with. Last year, the state cut $66 million out of Rutgers's $1.6 billion budget. The university canceled hundreds of classes and downgraded six varsity teams to club level, saving $800,000 or so in scholarship, travel and coaching expenses -- a relatively trivial amount compared to the estimated stadium costs. 
 With rising tuition, it now costs a New Jersey resident $20,000 a year to study and reside at Rutgers's main campus -- about two-thirds of the average cost at a private university.
 Despite all this, Rutgers officials have quietly committed almost $1 million to design a plan that would add 12,000 new seats and some luxury boxes to its 42,000-seat football stadium. According to estimates that The Record of Bergen County pried loose as a result of the state's Open Public Records Act, the expansion would cost $116 million. About $86 million of that would be borrowed by the university; the remaining $30 million would come from the state. Rutgers points out that the plan is not final and could be scaled down. 
 In a state with a $33 billion budget, $30 million is not much money. But it takes on symbolic importance considering that New Jerseyans are paying higher and higher property taxes and Trenton is struggling to scrape up enough money for current expenses. In a year when Mr. Corzine and numerous legislators are talking about the need for financial sacrifice, should the state really be spending more money on football? 
 And what about Rutgers? After canceled classes and tuition increases, should football command enough priority to merit borrowing $86 million? We think not. 
 It's not as if football has been a poor relative at Rutgers. Spurred on by enthusiastic legislators, the university embarked on an intensive campaign to make the team a national power. In 2000, it hired a nationally known coach, paid him a salary that now totals about $1.5 million and gave him great leeway to spend what he deemed necessary. 
 Last year, the football budget totaled $13 million. Meanwhile, except for women's and men's basketball, the university was giving most other sports short shrift. 
 Perhaps because of the increased exposure, enrollment at Rutgers is way up, and advocates say the investment in football will pay off. That may be true when it comes to the football program, but some noted economists express doubt that big-college football ever does much more than pay for itself, even in the best of seasons. By adding seats at the stadium, Rutgers officials believe they will bring in added revenue. What happens when losing seasons come and the fans don't? 
 Rutgers and the state of New Jersey long ago made the decision to spend huge amounts on their football team. In view of the hard times both face, they must now consider whether it makes sense to spend even more money just to expand a stadium. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); SUNSHINE LAWS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (96%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007



58 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: My Dad's Corps Values

BYLINE: By DAVID BROWNE. 
David Browne is the author of ''Dream Brother: The Lives and Music of Jeff and Tim Buckley'' and ''Amped,'' a history of extreme sports.

 BODY:
IN a recent announcement, President George Bush said he wants to upgrade public parks by way of corporate sponsorship and government financing. His plans are obviously meant to evoke the work of his environmentally friendly predecessor Theodore Roosevelt. But they also hark back to another Roosevelt and another program whose time may have come again.
 In 1933, faced with a surge in nationwide unemployment and the deterioration of national parks, Franklin Delano Roosevelt started the Civilian Conservation Corps. Young men in their teens and early 20s were sent off to restore roads and trails, refurbish buildings and offset soil erosion in public recreational areas. Although those goals seem modest now, the corps, which was disbanded in 1942, was a huge success; an estimated three billion trees were planted by its army of youthful hired hands. 
 One of those kids was my father. At the time he volunteered in 1937, he was a 17-year-old from Kearny, N.J., with few job prospects, a father who had skipped out years before, and an abusive stepfather.
 Later, as an adult, it was rare for Clifford Browne to start a conversation. An ear infection he'd suffered while serving in World War II had left him partially deaf, and he was too embarrassed by his disability to ask people to speak up. But when he'd get to talking, he would often speak with genuine fondness of his days in the corps at Woahink Lake on the western coast of Oregon. He'd reminisce about the good pals he'd made there, the bounty of food at his disposal (the endless stacks of pancakes and corned beef on toast still made him grin), even the ticks he'd have to pluck off his legs after a day in the forest. 
 I'd never heard of the Civilian Conservation Corps, but it was nice to see him speak of something in his past that wasn't unpleasant. 
 Many years later, after he was found to have lymphoma, I promised him we'd take a trip together to Woahink Lake when he was on the mend. But the cancer progressed faster than we feared, and he died a few months later. After he was gone, my mother gave me a book that, in both its size and imitation red-leather cover, reminded me of my high school yearbook. It was my father's corps camp souvenir book. I'd almost forgotten about it until recently, when, unpacking after a move, I came across the volume once again.
 Flipping through its well-preserved pages, I found myself for the first time transported back to my father's mysterious past. In weathered snapshots, he's palling around with his buddies, refueling a work truck and beaming in front of skyscraper-size trees. He looks unburdened and at ease, as if his hardscrabble childhood had been left behind. His delight at being in the corps rang out in the section titled ''I arrived ...,'' after which he'd jotted, ''at last.'' 
 I saw, for the first time, how this ambitious government program had helped shape my father: It gave an impoverished kid from New Jersey reason to hope and instilled in him skills he used throughout this life. Under ''duties I performed,'' he'd scribbled ''landscaping,'' ''park cleanup,'' ''trail making'' and ''road building.'' So that's how he was able to build the deck on my sister's house. 
 In the decades since the heyday of the Civilian Conservation Corps, other generations have heeded a call to serve. Organizations like the National Association for Service and Conservation Corps continue the group's legacy (although its roughly 20,000 enlistees don't match its predecessor's peak enrollment of half a million a year). 
 President Bush's plan, meanwhile, is a good if belated start. But in light of our beleaguered ecosystem -- and given the yearning I sometimes hear from friends in their 20s and 30s in search of a greater calling in life -- perhaps the country should revive the idea of a volunteer army dedicated to preserving the environment. Wouldn't that be as vital a use of young, able-bodied adults as reviving the draft, like some in Congress have suggested? 
 I regret not taking that trip back to Woahink Lake with my father; it would have been wonderful to visit the sites in the photos and have him pinpoint the roads and structures he helped salvage. But it will be lovely to take my daughter someday. 
 While I'm there, I'll ask myself if I could have left behind everything I knew and traveled 3,000 miles to help make the countryside a better place. And I'll hope that the descendants of those long-forgotten Civilian Conservation Corps laborers have it in them to collectively build another future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); EROSION (71%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (66%); LYMPHOMA (61%); CANCER (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); STEPPARENTS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2007



59 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Propping Up The Weak As a Policy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
 JUST how much President Bush's goals abroad are now at the mercy of some of the world's weakest leaders was clear last week in how the White House reacted to events in Pakistan. 
 Quietly, the administration cheered on an alliance of convenience between a once-unchallenged strongman, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, and an exiled former prime minister, Benazir Bhutto, whose turns in office in the 1980s and 90s were widely viewed as a mixture of incompetence, powerlessness and suspected corruption.
 The administration was betting that a Musharraf-Bhutto combination, however fragile, would be the best bet for keeping a nuclear-armed state from descending into violence that could end Mr. Bush's last hopes of wiping out Osama bin Laden's sanctuary. 
 General Musharraf is just one example of weak leadership. Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, has let pro-Shia loyalties inhibit progress toward the power-sharing compromises with the Sunnis. The Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas failed to rein in Hamas and end the endemic corruption in his own party when he first won power two years ago. And President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, whose authority over warlords is still a matter of daily challenge, now faces a resurgent Taliban. 
 If the nemesis of Mr. Bush's first term was the Axis of Evil, the bane of his last 17 months in office may be the Nexus of Weakness.
 The driving question inside the White House is how to build up these weak leaders or maneuver around them, at a time when arms sales, aid programs and presidential photo-ops yield diminishing returns. 
 A senior official said last week that in recent meetings, ''Every once in a while you heard a debate about whether it's time to cut one of these guys free -- particularly Musharraf and Maliki. Then someone in the back of the room would ask, 'Then what?' '' 
 There are agonized searches for other alternatives, and the limited choices in Iraq were played out for more than an hour on Friday in the secure Pentagon room where the Joint Chiefs of Staff meet. Much of the talk, administration officials said, concerned how Mr. Bush could work around Mr. Maliki and reward Sunnis in Anbar Province for their recent decision to start shooting at Al Qaeda in Iraq, instead of at Americans forces. 
 The discussion included how to encourage early elections that would put Sunnis in government posts and how to get the central government to finance more projects in the region. 
 ''It quickly became a discussion of the political and economic rewards we can encourage, rather than the math of how many forces we need to keep there,'' said one official. He wondered aloud whether the United States would still be in Iraq if ''we had the same conversation four summers ago.''
 That point -- how late in the game it is -- also preoccupies Washington.
 The administration's critics and its war-weary veterans alike agree that using America's remaining leverage in each place requires matching American promises of help with tangible results. For example, Mr. Bush has talked about bringing reconstruction to those countries. But the delivery has failed. 
 ''Timing is to statecraft what location is to real estate,'' said Dennis Ross, a Middle East expert who served under Presidents George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton, and whose book, ''Statecraft'' (Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2007) lays out what he sees as missed opportunities. 
 With Mr. Abbas, he said, ''We had a chance right after his election'' in 2005, ''and we didn't show a sense of urgency, for example helping find way to lower 40 percent unemployment.'' The Islamic movement Hamas exploited that and won the subsequent election, he said. 
 ''Karzai is a weak leader whose problem from the beginning was that he needed a way to take on the warlords,'' he continued. ''We didn't deliver with the kind of reconstruction that the president promised, or a way for him to extend his authority and writ beyond Kabul. And so he had to start cutting deals with everyone.''
 Of course, missteps in Washington only contribute to a leader's weakness; rarely do they cause it. Would General Musharraf's suddenly tenuous position in Pakistan be stronger had the Bush administration given him the one thing he asked for most urgently after 9/11? He wanted duties on Pakistani textiles lifted, an action opposed by textile-manufacturing states here. It seems a stretch to think that lower duties would have made him more able to trap Qaedists in their Pakistani lairs today.
 On the other hand, it is reasonable to ask whether things would be different in Iraq, Afghanistan or the Palestinian territories had the administration had what Henry Crumpton, the former C.I.A. officer who helped oust the Taliban in 2001 and became the counterterrorism head at the State Department, calls an ''expeditionary foreign service'' that could help nations create courts, central banks and job programs. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice sees the logic of that. 
 ''I think we've begun to build that rudimentary capability, but it's frankly something that the country has probably needed since the Balkans'' in the mid-1990's, she said a few weeks ago. 
 ''You have to have a civilian capacity to do it,'' she said. ''And that's the capability we're trying to build now.''
 A big problem, though, is that the leaders Mr. Bush wants to embolden know that Mr. Bush cannot promise anything past 12:01 p.m. on Jan. 20, 2009. Every day they calculate their own moves accordingly. 
 Mr. Maliki made the calculation out loud last week. Angered by the crescendo of calls in Washington for his ouster -- by Democrats and Republicans -- he warned that Iraq had ''other friends'' who ''will support us in our endeavor.'' He was clearly talking about Iran. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CONUNDRUM: For the White House, there may be no alternatives to, clockwise: Mahmoud Abbas, top left, Hamid Karzai, Gen. Pervez Musharraf and Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. (pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TALIBAN (77%); AL-QAEDA (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); CORRUPTION (70%); HAMAS (67%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (91%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HAMAD KARZAI (73%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (72%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (66%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



60 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Bush Is Said to Approve More Aid to Iraqi Sunnis Battling Extremist Groups

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Michael R. Gordon contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
President Bush, marshaling his arguments to maintain current troop levels in Iraq, has approved the acceleration of a new program to intensify economic assistance directly to Sunni Arab regions where former insurgents have joined American forces in fighting extremist Sunni groups, senior American officials say.
 The move, which has been gathering momentum for several months, was discussed at length on Friday at a Pentagon session attended by Mr. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and senior American commanders in Iraq, the officials said. 
 The shift is focused on Anbar Province, once a hotbed of attacks on American forces, where local Sunni militias have now turned against the homegrown insurgent group Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia and its allies and are increasingly receiving support, within informal ''neighborhood watch'' groups, directly from American troops. 
 During Mr. Bush's visit to the Pentagon on Friday, he also heard a presentation by Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq, that appeared to preview much of what he will tell Congress when he gives his Iraq progress report scheduled in nine days. 
 But that discussion quickly focused on an issue Mr. Bush and his aides are accused of mishandling after the invasion: making sure that Sunnis are empowered and that they receive a share of the funds that flow from Baghdad, where Shiite leaders have seen their moment for revenge against their former oppressors under Saddam Hussein's rule. 
 Mr. Bush and his commanders weighed whether to reward the Sunnis with early provincial elections, restoring a degree of political power to them. But calling elections is no longer within the power of the United States, and the Shiite-dominated national government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki has long opposed empowering the Sunnis. 
 They also discussed ways to pressure Mr. Maliki's government to provide millions of dollars in Iraqi funds -- much of it oil money -- to reconstruction of Anbar's schools and health care centers and the reopening of state-run factories.
 ''This is all about finding ways to circumvent Maliki,'' said one senior official who is involved in preparing Mr. Bush's presentation of a new strategy, which will probably come in an address to the country after General Petraeus and the American ambassador to Iraq, Ryan C. Crocker, have presented their report to Congress starting on Sept. 10. ''We can't go to the Hill again and say Maliki will perform if we just give him the space. He won't. So you find other means to accomplish the goal.'' 
 But circumventing a central government that the United States itself set up is unlikely to prove easy. In the end, it is the new Iraqi government that has control of the country's treasury, and determining when to hold elections around the country is a subject the Iraqi Parliament has not been able to agree upon.
 ''There is an effort to accelerate the bottom-up reconciliation,'' said one Defense Department official who declined to speak on the record. ''The idea is to capitalize on the unexpected progress made at the provincial level through the Sunni awakening and efforts to work with former insurgents. We are increasing Iraqi and American money being invested in the provinces.''
 The money would come, the official said, by spending State Department funds through provincial reconstruction teams, which are finally being deployed in significant numbers. Some would come from American military commanders, who have emergency funds at their disposal, and some from a Department of Defense program to generate jobs by revitalizing state-owned industries -- a reversal of the privatization effort begun by American forces four years ago.
 The reduction in attacks on Americans in Anbar, according to current and recently departed officials, has fueled a new optimism in the White House that Republican defections from Mr. Bush's overall Iraq policy will be limited, and that Democrats will once again find themselves unable to assemble the votes to cut off financing or force an early withdrawal of troops.
 But Mr. Bush's argument that Anbar is a locus of progress has drawn fire from Democrats and critics of his war strategy, who say that he is picking out a single tactical accomplishment and ignoring broader strategic failures that have been documented by the intelligence community, the Government Accountability Office and an independent commission examining the Iraqi military and police.
 The president is expected to argue that what has happened in Anbar is beginning to be replicated in Diyala Province and other places, and that to pull back now -- and fail to reward the Sunnis in Anbar -- would halt the first significant gains that American forces had made against the insurgency in four years.
 Officials were cautious about discussing Friday's Pentagon meeting. Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney were said to have used it to hear a variety of viewpoints, officials said, including lengthy descriptions from the Joint Chiefs about how the increase in forces is unsustainable beyond spring without extending the tours of forces already in Iraq. Several aides to Mr. Bush have said in recent weeks that such extensions are so politically unpalatable that they are not under consideration unless an emergency breaks out requiring the use of American forces elsewhere in the world.
 But Mr. Bush, they said, is also unlikely to wait until April to begin the drawdown. If he does so, he would have to pull troops out at the same pace at which he sent them this year, about a brigade a month, the officials said. 
 By beginning a drawdown slightly earlier, the officials say, Mr. Bush would both maximize his flexibility and avoid having to stick to a strict timeline for withdrawal, which the president has said in the past would signal to enemy forces exactly when and how quickly American forces would begin to leave. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sunni sheiks ate with American officers in Ramadi in March, during a visit by Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT NICKELSBERG/GETTY IMAGES, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); TERRORISM (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); DICK CHENEY (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2007



61 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Letters: 'Age of Betrayal'

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Your review of my book ''Age of Betrayal: The Triumph of Money in America, 1865-1900'' (July 22) betrayed The Times's standards of fairness and accuracy. Mark Lewis doesn't try to be fair -- to give even a summary account of the book's contents. He ignores the four historical figures to whom I devote chapters, spending 32 lines on Jay Gould, who gets 60 scattered lines in my 390 pages. He ignores my chapters on the nature of industrial revolutions, on the Illinois Central and the rise of Chicago, on the tariff, on the Homestead Act, on the Colfax Massacre and the tragic Slaughter-House Cases decision, on the scandalous Santa Clara decision of 1886, on the elite attack on democracy, on railroad politics and the Compromise of 1877, on the Great Railroad Strike of 1877, on the Populist Revolt, on the social and economic crises of the '90s, and on the limits of Progressive Era reform of government by campaign contribution. 
In short, Lewis ignores ''Age of Betrayal.'' One example of the review's misrepresentation must suffice: ''Beatty offers a hidebound Marxist analysis'' of the Spanish-American War. In ''Age of Betrayal,'' I spend two pages on that subject; and, quoting contemporary sources, cite five motives: 1) Domestic politics: ''I know that to threaten war for political reasons is a crime,'' Henry Cabot Lodge wrote Theodore Roosevelt in March. ''But to sacrifice a great party and bring free silver upon the country is hardly less odious.'' 2) Religion: ''The Methodists were the most powerful propagandists for McKinley's war,'' Godkin wrote in The Nation. McKinley told visiting ministers that he ''bent down on my knees and prayed to Almighty God for light.'' 3) The White Man's Burden: ''It was the 'divine right of the Caucasian to govern the inferior races,' in the view of Sen. John L. McLaurin of South Carolina.'' 4) As a safety valve: ''We escape the menace and peril of socialism and agrarianism, as England has escaped them, by a policy of colonialization and conquest,'' Henry Watterson, editor of The Louisville Courier-Journal, told a New York reporter the month Teddy Roosevelt charged up San Juan Hill with his Rough Riders. 5) Finally (young readers beware), comes the Marxism: ''New markets must be found 'if American operatives are to be employed the year round,' a State Department paper affirmed.'' New markets would also help relieve the crisis of overproduction I discuss on Pages 385-87 -- following James Livingston's ''Social Analysis of Economic History: Conjectures in Late Nineteenth-Century Development,'' in The American Historical Review in 1987, and Naomi Lamoreaux's ''Great Merger Wave in American Business, 1895-1904'' (1985), as well as Richard Hofstadter's ''Cuba, the Philippines, and Manifest Destiny.'' Ignoring my multicausal contextualization, Lewis charges me with a ''hidebound Marxist analysis.'' Do the editors stand behind that statement? If they do, does that mean anything not defamatory goes in the Book Review? For reviews of my book by professional historians of Gilded Age America see Commonweal, The San Diego Union-Tribune, The Chicago Tribune and The Boston Globe.
Jack Beatty
 Hanover, N.H.
 Mark Lewis replies:
 My review described ''Age of Betrayal'' as ''a thrillingly eloquent polemic, savage in its denunciations,'' and I see from his letter that Beatty has not lost his touch. Books are long, reviews are short and authors are sensitive, so I'm not surprised that he is outraged by my omissions as cataloged above. I'll confine my response to the bit about the Spanish-American War.
 Beatty embeds his ''multicausal contextualization'' within an analytical framework that has been gathering dust since J. A. Hobson published ''Imperialism'' in 1902. He begins with a newspaper quote that supposedly illustrates President McKinley's prewar plight: ''Business is at a standstill and will remain so until something happens.'' Then Beatty cues the U.S.S. Maine, which providentially explodes. But by early 1898 the economy was growing again. Archcapitalists like Mark Hanna and James J. Hill opposed the looming war, fearing it would short-circuit the fragile recovery, while Beatty's hero William Jennings Bryan was among the populists pressing McKinley to intervene. Beatty leaves these facts out of his narrative. That's not surprising: authors are not obliged to put everything in. Neither are reviewers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); HISTORY (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); RELIGION (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009



62 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Let Them Eat Shortcake

BYLINE: By LIESL SCHILLINGER. 
Liesl Schillinger is a regular contributor to the Book Review.

 BODY:
STRAWBERRY FIELDS 
 By Marina Lewycka.
 294 pp. The Penguin Press. $24.95. 
 The young woman behind the counter at the beach boutique on Block Island was blond, ponytailed and suntanned. ''Can I khelp you?'' she asked a male customer as he wandered in, dazed from the sun. ''Whoa, where you from?'' he asked. ''Moldova,'' was the reply, as she rang up a navy belt dotted with green whales. ''This is my sommer job, then I go beck.'' ''You should find an American husband and stick around,'' the man teased. The cashier grinned and lowered her eyes. ''Maybe,'' she agreed. ''But this is my third sommer here.'' 
 It's easy to think of migration as a north-south phenomenon, or, rather, south-north: Central American farmworkers journeying to the United States to harvest crops, Turkish Gastarbeiter traveling to Germany for construction and restaurant jobs; Indians, Pakistanis and Bangladeshis resettling in England to become shopkeepers, chefs or (in the case of a lucky few) writers, pop stars and industrial magnates. But in her new novel, ''Strawberry Fields,'' Marina Lewycka, an Englishwoman born to Ukrainian parents in a refugee camp in Germany at the end of World War II, takes note of the westward migration that has been changing the landscape of England in recent decades. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall and the expansion of the European Union, it has been easier than it once was for Eastern Europeans to pick up their knapsacks and cross borders. Part of an earlier generation of refugees, imbued with nostalgia for the storied, soulful Eastern Europe of her parents' past, Lewycka seems to look on the incoming wave with less indulgence and more mortification than a nonimplicated person might. In her first novel, ''A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian,'' one of the characters tells her wayward father: ''Ukraina isn't like you remember it. It's different now. The people are different. They don't sing anymore -- only vodka songs. All they're interested in is shopping. Western goods. Fashion. Electronics. American brand names.'' ''Strawberry Fields'' is also infused with this mournful perception.
 The novel focuses on the misadventures of a handful of migrant workers from Ukraine and Poland and their friends from more distant parts who've come to England to harvest berries or gut chickens, hoping to turn their pounds sterling into sacks of Ukrainian hryvnia and Polish zlotys back home -- or, with a bit of luck, to hunker down in Britain permanently, fortified with ''mobilfons'' and wide-boy suits. Lewycka's hopelessly naive 19-year-old heroine, Irina, a professor's daughter from Kiev, arrives at Farmer Leapish's ''ramshackle strawberry farm'' on Sherbury Down brimming with ill-founded optimism, hoping to harvest fodder for her Great Ukrainian Novel along with her bushels of berries.
 ''The first thing I noticed was the light -- the dazzling salty light dancing on the sunny field, the ripening strawberries, the little rounded trailer perched up on the hill,'' Irina reflects. Taking in the ''pretty steep-roofed farmhouse,'' the lawn that slopes down to a ''shallow glassy river'' and the ''woods beyond,'' she smiles to herself, thinking with relief, ''So this is England.'' But Irina's England turns out to include as many Satanic mills as pleasant pastures, plus an immigrant wrangler named Vulk, with a greasy ponytail, who creepily calls Irina ''little flovver'' and longs to induct her into the flesh trade. ''England is a change, little flovver,'' he tells her. ''England is not like in you school book.'' Vulk is someone Irina's highbrow mother would call a ''person of minimum culture,'' to say the least. Clueless as she is, Irina knows to keep out of Vulk's way, but she isn't nearly canny enough to keep Vulk out of hers. She would do well to accept the protection of a shy young Ukrainian migrant worker named Andriy, but she snubs him: ''I haven't come all this way to spend my time fending off the advances of a miner from Donbas,'' she loftily decides. Dreaming of Natasha and Pierre's romance in ''War and Peace'' while keeping her eyes fixed on her strawberries, Irina risks slipping into a ditch of vice that anyone who saw the film ''Dirty Pretty Things'' will recognize: not as romantic as Tolstoy's landscape, but much more accessible. (And now, to the list of things first-worlders need to feel guilty about -- S.U.V.'s, factory-farmed food, energy hogging -- add a new item. Who has suffered so you can have strawberry shortcake?)
 A late-blooming fiction writer, Marina Lewycka produced a number of self-help books before ''A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian'' appeared two years ago. That splendid debut, which won several awards in Britain, reads like a memoir. Rich and strange in detail, magnanimous yet unsparing in tone, it presents an unairbrushed portrait of two quarreling middle-aged Ukrainian-English sisters, Vera and Nadia, who reconcile to save their stubborn father from a disastrous late marriage. Grotesquely decayed, pedantic and obsessed with the history of tractors, Nikolai is also an incurable romantic. At 84, he has married a 36-year-old Ukrainian immigrant named Valentina, who has a bra-busting bosom and an unquenchable yen for material goods -- from breast implants and fancy cars to a gas stove and a British passport. ''She exploded into our lives,'' Nadia, the younger sister, notes with dismay, ''like a fluffy pink grenade.'' 
 Vera, the hardheaded older sister, has no sympathy for the interloper: ''We read about these people in the papers every day. Immigrants, asylum seekers, economic migrants,'' she tells Nadia. ''It is always the most determined and ruthless people who make it over here, and then when they find it isn't so easy to get a good job, they will turn to crime.'' Nadia, mindful of her family's own immigrant past, wants to be tolerant, but even she succumbs to xenophobia. ''I used to be liberal about immigration,'' she confesses. ''I suppose I just thought it was all right for people to live where they wanted. But now I imagine hordes of Valentinas barging their way through customs at Ramsgate, at Felixstowe, at Dover, at Newhaven -- pouring off the boats, purposeful, single-minded, mad.'' 
 Such reluctant imaginings trickle like a narrow creek through ''A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian,'' but in ''Strawberry Fields'' they swamp the story. The main characters -- Irina; her Valentina-like Polish overseer, Yola; innocent Andriy; and the vile Vulk, along with a few other heavies -- feel like the sort of caricatures you might see on an episode of ''The Simpsons'' or in one of Sacha Baron Cohen's send-ups of sleazy, dopey foreigners. When non-Slavs pop up on the landscape -- a pious Malawian orphan named Emanuel who fears ''canal knowledge''; a family of British toffs (pot-smoking son, vegetarian mum, whiskey-soaked dad) -- they're equally cartoony. Each character's reflections are presented in a different voice, with solecisms that are meant to be funny but instead inspire cringing. Even a stray dog (named Dog) who befriends Irina and Andriy produces long, one-note, capitalized canine monologues: ''female says how beautiful is the song of the bird she is more stupid than a sheep that bird is not good bird if it comes down from its tree i will catch it snap dead eat i am good dog i am dog.'' 
 There's nothing wrong with weaving fractured English, inflated Eastern European ravings and an odoriferous hound into fiction. Jonathan Safran Foer succeeded brilliantly at it in his novel ''Everything Is Illuminated,'' and Lewycka did the same herself (substituting odoriferous cats for the hound) in her first novel. But ''Strawberry Fields'' needed longer to ripen. Its plot suggests Vera's headlines, not Nadia's heartbeats, and the compassion the author undoubtedly feels for the literary-minded Ukrainian girl in the strawberry-stained jeans could have used more water, more sun and fewer stereotypes. As the schoolyard gibe goes, it takes one to know one. But writing what you know and writing what you think you know are often two very different things. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Astrid Chesney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); RETAILERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (87%); REFUGEES (87%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); FARM LABOR (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); MIGRANT WORKERS (70%); POP & ROCK (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); WRITERS (66%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (65%); BRITISH POUND (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (90%); UKRAINE (90%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); CENTRAL AMERICA (72%); POLAND (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

TITLE: Strawberry Fields (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



63 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: His Generation

BYLINE: By WILLIAM DERESIEWICZ. 
William Deresiewicz reviews books for a variety of publications.

 BODY:
VIE FRANCAISE 
 By Jean-Paul Dubois. Translated by Linda Coverdale.
 276 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $24.95. 
 French life? This novel feels more like the story of one very tired generation. It's called the generation of '68 in Western Europe and the '60s generation in the United States, but whatever name it goes by, its transnational similarities outweigh its differences, and it's been dragging the slow length of its middle age through the culture of two continents for at least the last 25 years. ''Vie Francaise'' gives us yet another version of the angry young man who won't grow up, and while the inflections may be Gallic, the self-pity and self-righteousness are all too familiar. 
 The novel's original title is actually ''Une Vie Francaise'' -- less grand, though no less ambitious in its claim to represent national experience. The first of Jean-Paul Dubois's many novels to be translated into English (he is also a journalist and travel writer), it won the prestigious Prix Femina in 2004. The ''life'' of the title belongs to Paul Blick, born (like his creator) in 1950, and the novel begins eight years later with the simultaneous death of Paul's adored older brother and the start of the Fifth Republic. It is through such coincidences, among other means, that Dubois seeks to align Paul's story with that of France.
 While the technique is reminiscent of ''Midnight's Children,'' whose hero is born at the exact moment of Indian independence, Dubois does not attempt to construct anything like the enormous and carefully worked-out system of allegorical correspondences that undergirds Rushdie's epic. Instead he tries, rather feebly, to make the tokens of political significance stand in for its substance. Most conspicuously, he titles his chapters after the successive presidential administrations of the Fifth Republic, complete with the exact dates of their duration, as if de Gaulle, Pompidou et al. ruled the course of Paul's life as closely as they did that of the French government. But these demarcations turn out to be entirely arbitrary with respect to the protagonist, aside from giving him the opportunity to engage in periodic ritual grumbling about the scoundrel in question.
 Dubois is more successful when he allows the national dimension to emerge more naturally from Paul's story. The early chapters are particularly good at this: a Christmas dinner in 1962 that (with a nod to ''Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man'') turns into an acrimonious family debate over the recent withdrawal from Algeria; the riots of '68, in which Paul ends up smashing the windows of his own father's auto dealership; the post-'68 atmosphere in the universities, so absurdly permissive that Paul and his friends try to mau-mau a young professor for daring to require papers and exams. (That Paul, like Dubois, lives in the southern industrial city of Toulouse, rather than in Paris, provides an interesting perspective on events.) Paul's account of his childhood and youth is energetic, deeply felt and often quite funny in a larkily satiric way: his parents' emotional withdrawal after his brother's death; the petty sadism of institutional authority (Gaullism, it seems, writ small); and always, the raging hormones of adolescence. Dubois gestures openly to Philip Roth in modeling the masturbatory adventures of Paul's best friend, David, on those of Alexander Portnoy, though here the object of affection is not a piece of liver but the family roast.
 Still, the novel runs out of gas pretty early. After Paul is rather clumsily seduced by David's equally rambunctious mother while hunting for an apartment (call it ''Last Tango in Toulouse''), we read the following: ''It was at that address, a few months later, that Round-Up was born, a whimsical and laid back rhythm-and-blues group I started with a few of my roommates.'' Maybe it was the awkwardness of the transition, or the cuteness of the tone, or the predictability of the plot-point, or the fact that we hadn't been told that Paul even knows how to play an instrument, but that sentence gave me the sickening feeling that the novel was jumping the shark. Paul's adult life turns into a long, flat, featureless expanse only occasionally enlivened by narrative contrivances and essentially disconnected from the larger currents of national life. (Le Pen's success in the 2002 presidential elections is duly noted but completely unanticipated, since we hadn't heard a single word about the North African immigration and everything that came with it, the most important social development in France since '68.) The main problem is that Paul essentially absents himself from social and economic life. After marrying an ambitious young businesswoman, he becomes a househusband, then a photographer whose book ''Trees of France'' becomes a fluke best seller, then, after widowhood and financial ruin, a part-time gardener.
 But what he mainly becomes is a full-time whiner, and here he proves himself the son more of his generation than of his country. As he descends into a self-marginalized and loveless existence, estranged from wife, children, friends, work and purpose, he discovers that life isn't really worth living in the first place: ''a solitary exercise, a journey without a destination, a voyage across a lake whose waters are both calm and foul.'' The cheap pseudo-philosophy may be quintessentially French, but the root of the malaise it expresses, as Paul himself admits, is that he refuses to grow up. It's no wonder his attitudes remain those of an adolescent: life is meaningless, everything stinks, authority figures are jerks, everybody but me is a suit-wearing zombie. Life hasn't given him the slick ride he expected back in his Round-Up days, so to hell with it.
 Paul's political attitudes (which seem to be Dubois's -- there's never the slightest ironic distance between author and protagonist) are also typically generational: knee-jerk leftism and mindless anti-Americanism. Given the latter, the dominant role that American culture plays in the novel is one of the most interesting things about it: it's not just the constant references to American music, unsurprising from a Frenchman. (Paul, like most of his generation and ones since, prides himself on, and defines himself spiritually by, his taste in pop.) It's the casual allusions to Roth, Updike, Melville and Fitzgerald coupled with an almost total absence of references to French culture itself. I would have loved to read a good novel about French life. Unfortunately -- as the ''Sarkozy'' chapter of Paul's story appears set to guarantee -- French life is becoming increasingly indistinguishable from American life. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph by Dong-Soeb Lee) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); RIOTS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); CHRISTMAS (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%)

TITLE: Vie Francaise (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



64 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Disclosed

BYLINE: By CARL M. CANNON. 
Carl M. Cannon covers the White House for National Journal.

 BODY:
CHENEY 
 The Untold Story of America's Most Powerful and Controversial Vice President.
 By Stephen F. Hayes. 
 Illustrated. 578 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $27.95. 
 As the Republican Party was settling on its presidential nominee seven summers ago, no less venerable a statesman than George Shultz was assuring skeptical conservatives that George W. Bush had the potential to be another Ronald Reagan. One reason for his confidence was the ''Stanford shuttle'' between Palo Alto and Austin, which carried such Hoover Institution luminaries -- and White House veterans -- as Martin Anderson, Michael J. Boskin and Condoleezza Rice (Shultz's own protege) on regular treks to Texas.
 But to conservatives, the best sign of all was Bush's selection of Richard B. Cheney as his running mate. Though Cheney wasn't originally a Reaganite, his conservative credentials were impeccable. He was considered the best the party had to offer. At the 2000 nominating convention in Philadelphia, Cheney remembers, he looked down from the stage to see the 79-year-old Shultz ''just rocking'' as the music filled the hall. ''Christ, he was just like a kid down there -- going wild,'' Cheney recalls. 
 This is one of the stories the vice president provided to Stephen F. Hayes in numerous one-on-one interviews conducted during the past three years for ''Cheney.'' The project, like so much surrounding Cheney, was a bit of a hush-hush undertaking, and some readers may wonder if Hayes, a conservative writer with an established view of the vice president (one of his articles was titled ''Dick Cheney Was Right''), is an appropriate author for this biography. But the access he received was unique. His nearly 30 hours with Cheney, including sessions on Air Force Two heading home from Afghanistan and Iraq, may equal the time the vice president has spent with all other journalists put together. 
 Hayes, who writes for The Weekly Standard, is known primarily for trying to debunk the debunkers on the questions surrounding Saddam Hussein's relationship, if any, with Al Qaeda before 9/11. Administration critics have long complained that while mobilizing the nation for war, Bush and Cheney blurred the difference between the terrorists who attacked the United States and the Baathists of Baghdad. Hayes has argued that the detractors ignore evidence that Hussein sponsored terrorists, including those affiliated with Al Qaeda. He has a point; it's just that his arguments are more convincing as press criticism than as a rationale for invading Iraq. In any case, he announces in his preface that he understands a book is different from an article for a partisan magazine.
 Before this administration began, Cheney was one of a disappearing breed of political operators who generated respectful testimonials from those in both major parties -- and from mainstream journalists. This dour man now associated with undisclosed locations and stonewalling Congress was once a popular figure on Capitol Hill, widely praised in Washington for his candor and sense of humor. Reporters who did not cover the capital at the time have trouble even processing that image. 
 In Washington, ''What happened to Dick Cheney?'' has become something of a parlor game. Cheney's erstwhile friend Brent Scowcroft told the journalist Jeffrey Goldberg, ''Dick Cheney I don't know anymore.'' And the former Illinois congressman Bob Michel said much the same about the man he had handpicked to succeed him as the Republicans' leader in the House. ''I never thought of him as being a hothead with respect to going to war,'' Michel observed. ''He was a mediator, I thought.''
 Charles Peters, the sage founding editor of The Washington Monthly, wondered in print whether Lynne Cheney's ''rigid'' conservatism played a role. Others have blamed the effects of 9/11 or his prior heart attacks. When I put the question earlier this year to Cheney's friend Alan Simpson, the former Wyoming senator, he barked, ''I'm not going to put him on the couch for you!'' 
 Hayes is also reluctant to do that. He quotes Bush, approvingly, as saying about Cheney, ''Look, we don't sit around psychoanalyzing each other.'' Instead, Hayes chooses to provide what is essentially a chronological account of Cheney's life. The strength of this approach is that it places him in a context -- and a rich context at that. 
 We see Cheney trying to hang on to an academic career that never quite got off the ground, resisting jobs in politics twice before finally succumbing to its lures. Those offers kept coming for a reason, and when Cheney finally went to work on Capitol Hill, his climb through the Republican ranks was steady and fast. He attached himself to an up-and-coming Nixon White House official named Donald Rumsfeld -- and away they went. Cheney, who came from a Democratic family, became an economic conservative while watching the cynical Nixon impose wage-and-price controls as an election-year ploy. Cheney and Rumsfeld went to work for Gerald Ford after Nixon stepped down, and when Ford needed a secretary of defense, Rumsfeld got the job. Cheney became White House chief of staff. 
 After Ford lost to Jimmy Carter and Cheney went to Congress as a representative from Wyoming, his career took on aspects of ''Forrest Gump.'' He could be seen by Reagan's side at the White House or challenging Mikhail Gorbachev over dinner. He debated Newt Gingrich about presidential prerogative. (Gingrich, hoping to be speaker one day, explained that Congress was a coequal branch of government. Cheney was more concerned about the power of the president.) When George H. W. Bush assumed the ''third Reagan term,'' Cheney took his turn running the Pentagon. There, he assembled the colleagues who would go on to staff George W. Bush's administration: Colin Powell, Paul Wolfowitz, David Addington, Scooter Libby, Stephen Hadley. And as a 21st-century administration was taking shape, so too was a worldview -- and a future war.
 Cheney was worried about terrorist attacks on the United States and the possibility that Iraq was developing nuclear weapons -- in 1990. His experience in the gulf war left him with an abiding mistrust of the C.I.A., for its faulty intelligence, and of the State Department, which inexplicably told Saddam Hussein that invading Kuwait was no big problem.
 It's a tenet of journalism that you show the readers, you don't tell them, and Hayes does this well. He demonstrates that Cheney didn't transmogrify himself into a hard case overnight. But this approach has drawbacks, too, particularly in a biography. We learn that the ''secure undisclosed location'' where Cheney and his staff spent so much time after 9/11 was usually Camp David, but we don't learn whether living this way helped induce a bunker mentality. We are made to understand that Cheney views The New York Times as liberal and partisan. We are not told why Cheney's solution to negative press coverage is to avoid reporters altogether. 
 Other questions about Cheney's actions are left unanswered as well. How could anyone ignore John McCain on the question of torture -- didn't McCain's horrific experiences in Hanoi earn him a great deal of deference? For that matter, why did Cheney not listen to himself on Iraq? In 1991, while defending the first Bush administration's decision to halt the victorious United States forces at the Kuwait border, Cheney explained that occupying Iraq would alienate other Arab nations; immerse Washington in the differences among Iraqi Kurds, Sunnis and Shiites; and cost considerable American lives. 
 ''The question in my mind,'' Cheney said then, ''is how many additional American casualties is Saddam worth? And the answer is not very damned many.''
 What changed? Hayes's answer is apparently 9/11. He suggests that having a Secret Service agent lift you, the second most powerful man in government, by your belt buckle and escort you to a secure bunker, where you sit for two hours believing you gave an order that downed an American passenger jet -- well, these things change a man. Undoubtedly, but Hayes also quotes Cheney on his 1991 skepticism about occupying Iraq. Those words remain the more persuasive. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Noma Bar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); TERRORISM (87%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (84%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); AL-QAEDA (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); MICHAEL J ANDERSON (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (67%) TEXAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (77%)

TITLE: Cheney: The Untold Story of America's Most Powerful and Controversial Vice President (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



65 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SANTO DOMINGO JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: A Subway: Just What's Needed. Or Is It?

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Dominicans are singing about their subway. They are arguing about it. No trains are in place yet, not to mention rails or turnstiles, and the Santo Domingo Metro has become as hot a topic of conversation as the fate of Dominicans' favorite baseball team, the New York Yankees.
 As of now, the subway is a hole in the ground, a mountain of concrete, a stretch of tunnels where workers are racing to meet President Leonel Fernandez's construction deadline of early next year, in time for the presidential election in May in which he hopes to win a new term. Meanwhile, the debate about the merits of the project -- from song lyrics to heated conversations over bottles of Presidente beer -- is as intense as the flurry of subterranean shoveling and welding and hammering. 
 Only the second underground rail system in the Caribbean -- the first is in San Juan, Puerto Rico -- Santo Domingo's subway project is, to some, a colossal exercise in bad judgment, a white elephant on rails. To others, though, it is a forward-thinking solution to the capital's serious traffic congestion.
 Santo Domingo, whose population is two million and growing, is bursting at the seams. Its roadways are clogged with buses, private cars, bicycles and rundown taxis, where passengers sit cheek-by-jowl with strangers. Add the occasional horse cart for a snarling, slow-moving mess.
 ''I spend most of my life in jams,'' grumbled Santo Castillo, 27, who was behind the steering wheel of a taxi the other day, breathing fumes and watching pedestrians pass him by. ''With this subway, we're going to be world-class. We're poor, but we'll have a Metro, just like New York.''
 Even without a subway, there are strong links between Santo Domingo and New York, home to an estimated 550,000 Dominicans, who prop up the country's economy with the $1 billion they send home annually. Mr. Fernandez, in fact, spent his youth in Manhattan, often riding the trains. Now he sees a Dominican subway as a way of modernizing the country and taming its traffic woes.
 He also considers it, aides say, part of his campaign to keep more of his countrymen from emigrating, although 57 percent of Dominicans surveyed in a recent poll said they wanted to leave.
 ''Leonel spent an important part of his life in New York, and he understands the benefits of a Metro,'' said Leonel Carrasco, assistant director of the subway project, speaking of the president.
 The initial $470 million estimate of the cost of the project has spiraled to nearly $700 million. Some suspect that will end up costing far more. In a country with deeply rooted poverty, infuriating power failures and social indicators a notch below those of Sri Lanka, opponents say there are better things the country could have done with the money.
 ''Is it more of a priority than education or health care or fighting poverty?'' said Hamlet Hermann, a former minister of transportation in Mr. Fernandez's government and now a vehement critic of the project. ''That's what I ask.''
 The project, announced in 2004, calls for nine miles of tracks and 16 stops, 10 of them underground. It will run from the northern part of the city, across the Isabela River, to the downtown, near the coast. More lines are planned for the years ahead.
 Already, though, the subway is coming up in songs. Some of those who debate it by day grab a partner and dance to it at night.
 ''Metro, Metro, Metro, Metro, Metro, Metro,'' Julian Oro Duro says over and over to a lightning-quick merengue beat in his risque take on a project he calls ''Leonel's obsession.''
 In another hit, La Krema, a rap group, lists the country's many woes as a backup singer chimes in sarcastically, ''Now we have a Metro.''
 The subway is not the first project to draw criticism here. Some are already comparing it to the giant 10-story cross built in 1992 to honor Columbus.
 That construction drew street protests as Dominicans, in economic crisis at the time, denounced a price tag of about $100 million. When a wall went up around the monument, it was called the ''wall of shame'' by local residents, who regarded it as an attempt by the government to hide the dire living conditions of the surrounding neighborhoods from visitors.
 The government turns on the monument's giant strobe lights, which project a giant cross in the sky, only on special occasions, because neighborhood people resent such an extravagance when their lights are frequently out.
 Still, the strong local opposition to the Columbus monument has waned, and officials expect the same to happen with the Metro.
 ''Nobody wanted the Eiffel Tower, and now it's the symbol of Paris,'' said Andy Mieses, director of the monument and a backer of the subway. ''Today we protest and tomorrow we celebrate. That's the way it is.''
 An elaborate ceremony that Mr. Fernandez staged at the National Palace the other day had nothing to do with the subway. The subject was the inauguration of a health insurance plan.
 But the subway is a subtext to most everything these days.
 Msgr. Agripino Nunez Collado, a religious leader active in civic affairs who spoke at the event, apologized to the hundreds of assembled guests for arriving an hour late. He said he was stuck in traffic so bad that the vice president had to send motorcycle officers to extract him and race him to the palace. What better endorsement for a subway project than that?
 But as the religious leader spoke, the palace lights briefly went off, a reminder of the power cuts that are a regular part of life in Santo Domingo. How can a country that cannot keep its lights on possibly keep the trains running on time, critics ask.
 In fact, the engineers have an answer to that question. The project includes an independent generating station to ensure that time saved by avoiding traffic jams above ground is not wasted sitting around in the dark down below.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Construction crews rushing to finish a subway system for Santo Domingo, the Dominican capital. The streets are clogged with cars, trucks, buses and even horse carts.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Santo Domingo's subway will have nine miles of tracks. Map shows Santo Domingo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); BASEBALL (78%); TRAINS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); MAMMALS (57%); POWER FAILURES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



66 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants' Labors Lost

BYLINE: By MARK LANGE. 
Mark Lange was a presidential speechwriter from 1989 to 1991.

 BODY:
San Francisco
 IMAGINE we wanted to create a huge Latino underclass in this country. We would induce more than 500,000 illegal immigrants to enter annually. We would see Latinos account for half of America's population growth. We would turn a hardened eye toward all 44 million Latinos, because 12 million jumped our borders to meet our labor demand.
 We would financially motivate but morally deplore illegal immigrants' determination to break our laws and risk their lives to work for us. We would let nativist, xenophobic amnesiacs pillory the roughly 25 percent of Latinos who were here illegally, at the expense of the 75 percent who were legal. CNN and Fox News would reduce Latinos to fodder for fear-mongering, and the documentariat would make them objects of pity, when they wanted and warranted neither. 
 We would know that if we paid them, they would come, but we would offer no legitimate employment. We would adopt a let's-pretend labor policy in our fields, yards, factories and restaurants, and for child care, construction and cleaning, with a wage fakery worthy of the Soviet Union. There, the joke was ''we pretend to work, and they pretend to pay us.'' Here they would work, hard -- and we would pay them, sort of, but pretend not to, denying ourselves the future tax revenue needed to pay for services we faulted them for needing. 
 We would ensure that the education system failed them, lamenting a dropout rate more than twice that of blacks and four times that of whites. Keeping incomes impossibly low, we would sanction Mexican-American welfare receipts twice those of natives. We would let the states launch loads of legislative half-fixes. We would have the Immigration and Naturalization Service and Homeland Security Department start an ''even tougher'' and more futile paper chase. We would see desperate workers fake new Social Security numbers or go underground for the next boss seeking this shabby labor discount.
 We do all of this -- and let it cost us more as a country -- because it is a little cheaper for us as individuals and employers. And whether we knew it or not, we are deliberately fencing in our own economy. 
 It is in our self-interest to support labor mobility, development and advancement. Growth in productivity, fundamentally, is how we raise everyone's standard of living. It starts with the first rung. 
 This month, Congress can avert a replay of the 1986 amnesty debacle by reserving permanent residency and citizenship for those who get in line and play by existing rules. Let nobody's status be ''adjusted'' or ''granted.'' Instead, have employers sponsor anyone on their shadow payrolls to apply for a tamper-proof holographic guest worker card. Deport, adequately south of the border, anyone not sponsored. That won't mean all 12 million. In 1954, when illegal Latino immigration was twice what it is now, a manageable number of deportations motivated the majority to repatriate.
 To enforce sanctions against employers, grant the states (who bear the social costs) federal transfer payments for every undocumented worker they find, which will keep Congress and future administrations honest about paying for enforcement. If agriculture needs a lower minimum wage, negotiate and legislate it. To address the supply side, in the next trade agreement insist that Mexico adequately ensure its workers' right to organize -- to support wages and worker retention there, and a fairer fight for American exports. 
 The strength of an abstraction like ''the economy'' comes from the hands and minds of motivated and prepared people. Whether or not the left is committed to social equity -- or the right, to equality of opportunity -- we have at least 12 million pragmatic reasons to turn a potentially permanent underclass into a productive asset. Rather than fencing aspiring contributors out, comprehensive reform means Congress getting serious about entry-level job training and midcareer education programs for all workers. They deliver better economic returns than border patrols do. 
 The guy with the leaf-blower not only can learn English, he -- like the unemployed steelworker -- should have a chance to learn auto repair or programming. He'll start with the jobs ''ordinary Americans'' won't do. But we impair our economic future if we leave him there, imagining that's all he or his children will ever do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); AMNESTY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



67 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Few Expect A Panacea In a Rate Cut By the Fed

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Would cheaper money relieve the anxiety in financial markets about shoddy mortgages and declining home prices?
 Even as the chairman of the Federal Reserve vowed on Friday to act ''as needed'' to keep the economy from sliding into recession, some analysts and even some policy makers caution that the central bank's main tool may be ill-suited to the problem it faces.
 Like horses that rear up at the sight of a rattlesnake, investors who financed commercial lending have become spooked as the housing bubble turned to a bust and foreclosure rates on subprime mortgages began to skyrocket.
 Money for subprime mortgages, for people with weak credit, has already evaporated. And the paralysis has spread to more traditional home loans, business loans and corporate borrowing for billion-dollar leveraged buyouts. 
 But the Fed's main weapon for restoring confidence -- reducing its benchmark federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks to 5 percent or less, from 5.25 percent now -- would have little effect on fears about credit quality.
 ''The reason there isn't a market for these credits is that people don't know what price they should be trading at,'' said Edward E. Leamer, professor of management at the University of California, Los Angeles, who presented a paper during the weekend at the Federal Reserve's symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo. ''That's not going to be affected by a small change in the federal funds rate.''
 The meltdown in credit markets permeated discussions at Jackson Hole. In late-night chats over Cognac, European central bankers and American hedge fund managers swapped stories about collapsing ''conduits,'' ''special investment vehicles'' and ''SIV-lites'' -- entities that banks and private equity funds use to bundle and sell loans as securities. 
 The talk was not idle. 
 Over the next six weeks, more than $1 trillion worth of commercial debt is set to come due and will need to be refinanced, more than five times as much as came due since the disruption began one month ago.
 Fed officials say most of that $1 trillion in maturing debt has nothing to do with subprime loans and any other kind of mortgages. It includes credit card debt, car loans and business loans.
 One official compared the load of maturing debt to a pig in a python: a bulge that would be take time to digest, but could eventually be absorbed without huge problems. 
 Much of the digesting will be by big banks, which provided backup credit lines for their mortgage lenders. 
 But David Hale, a longtime Fed watcher, noted that at least two German banks needed to be rescued last month because of their exposure to American mortgages. Chances are very high that there will be more, Mr. Hale said. 
 Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said on Friday that the central bank was ready to act if the turmoil in credit markets threatened to undermine the overall economy.
 On Wall Street, investors welcomed Mr. Bernanke's remarks as a signal that the Fed would probably lower rates at its policy meeting on Sept. 18. Many economists and hedge fund managers said the move would indeed shore up confidence.
 More important, supporters of a lower fed funds rate say it could prevent the huge looming losses from bad mortgages from expanding into even bigger losses on all kinds of loans. 
 ''It would be a very powerful signal,'' said Lewis Alexander, chief economist at Citigroup. ''A critical determinant of housing prices is employment. If you think employment is going to weaken, your assumption for housing and for the ripple effects through the economy will be very different.''
 But economists are still debating whether the Fed created the housing bubble, and thus set the stage for the current bust, when it slashed interest rates to cushion the shock of a bursting stock market bubble.
 John B. Taylor, a former under secretary of the Treasury under President George W. Bush, argued over the weekend that the Fed ''would have avoided much of the housing boom'' if it had followed a more traditional monetary policy between 2001 and 2006.
 But other experts attributed the real estate frenzy to other factors, in particular to an explosion of exotic mortgages that allowed people with low incomes and weak credit to buy houses with no money down and deceptively low initial payments.
 ''It's too easy to blame the Fed,'' said Robert J. Shiller of Yale, who sounded early alarms about both the stock market and housing bubbles. Mr. Shiller blamed mass psychology for the bubble, an almost ubiquitous conviction that housing prices would simply keep climbing at double-digit rates.
 Mr. Bernanke took pains on Friday to warn that the Fed did not want to bail out either home buyers or investors who had made bad investments. Fed officials have long cringed at the idea of a ''Greenspan put,'' the idea that former chairman Alan Greenspan could be counted on to rescue financial markets in times of turmoil by cutting rates.
 Mr. Bernanke also made it clear he now worries that the downturn in housing and mortgage lending could pose a danger to the broader economy. Until recently, he had described the decline in residential real estate as a necessary ''adjustment'' to speculative excesses in one sector of the economy. 
 ''Housing prices should not have a special role in the conduct of monetary policy,'' said Frederic S. Mishkin, a Fed governor, in a speech at the Jackson Hole conference. ''On the other hand, central banks should be actively prepared to deal with situations as they arise. You want to be prepared.''
 Reducing the fed funds rate would not necessarily rescue people who took on far more debt than they could afford. Rather, Fed officials appear to hope that the move would stimulate consumption and send a reassuring signal to investors that the Fed is prepared to prevent a full recession.
 But the last few years suggest that the overnight fed funds rate has a weak relationship to housing. 
 Long-term interest rates, which determine mortgage rates, rose slightly before the central bank began raising the overnight rate in June 2004. But long-term rates and mortgage rates soon declined and stayed low throughout the time that the Fed quintupled its overnight rate to 5.25 percent.
 The housing market began spiraling down in 2006, but primarily because houses had appreciated so much faster than household incomes and had become increasingly unaffordable.
 But given the collapse of confidence in the credit quality for subprime and near-prime mortgages, which accounted for about one-quarter of mortgage originations as recently as May, few forecasters expect a quick recovery -- and certainly not because of a slightly lower overnight lending rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); PERSONAL DEBT (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



68 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: As Labor Talks Draw Near, Hollywood Plays Down a Record Summer

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES. 
David Carr, whose Media Equation column normally appears on this page, is on vacation.

 BODY:
Hollywood had one of its best summers in recent history, crossing the $4 billion mark in ticket sales for the first time and stockpiling hits to release on DVD. But the movie studios are not quite popping the Champagne -- at least publicly.
 Indeed, to hear many studio executives talk, the movie business is closer to the edge of a cliff than ever. The 18-week summer season ending today looks great on paper, with 16 movies selling at least $100 million in tickets. But executives quickly point out that $4 billion is not a record when ticket sales are adjusted for inflation. Attendance was also lighter than in years past. 
 And those blockbuster movies, ranging from ''Spider-Man 3'' to ''Rush Hour 3,'' were also some of the most expensive films ever made.
 ''You have to first realize that before the first ticket is sold, you can have $300 million in costs to recoup,'' said Dan Fellman, president of domestic distribution at Warner Brothers Pictures. ''It's hard to judge the health of an entire business based on one summer.''
 Some people see a strategy in all of the black bunting: the studios are in the middle of tough labor negotiations with the Hollywood guilds. 
 ''You don't want to celebrate too much at a time when you're negotiating new contracts,'' said Brandon Gray, publisher of Box Office Mojo, a Web site about the movie business.
 Particularly this time around. Agitated by the increasing distribution of movies and television shows online, the unions are more intent than ever on securing pay increases. Negotiations with two of the writers unions are expected to resume on Sept. 19.
 ''A record summer plays right into our hands, especially from a public perception standpoint,'' said one Writers Guild of America executive, who asked for anonymity because he had not been cleared to speak publicly on behalf of the union.
 A spokesman for the guild did not respond to requests for comment, but John F. Bowman, the chairman of the union's negotiating committee, echoed the sentiment in a recent interview. ''The studios are reaping windfall profits but pleading poverty to the talent community,'' he said.
 Studio chiefs say no strategy is at play. They are pleased with the financial performance of the summer -- a window in which movie companies can make up to 40 percent of their yearly revenue -- but say unsettling spots of weakness cannot be ignored. 
 Unlike in past years, no independent movie became a sleeper hit along the lines of ''Little Miss Sunshine'' in 2006. Romantic comedies failed to perform (''No Reservations'' took in less than $40 million in the United States), as did lucrative torture-themed horror movies (''Captivity'' bombed with $2.6 million). Stars with significant wattage -- like Nicole Kidman and Angelina Jolie -- drew yawns.
 Moreover, Wall Street's infatuation with movie financing is starting to ease, most studio chiefs say, because of the credit crisis and some high-profile investing mistakes like ''Evan Almighty.'' The comedy, which cost an estimated $200 million to produce and market, took in about $100 million at United States theaters.
 Then there are the glass-half-empty statistics: Despite the glut of big-budget films, the box office failed to beat the summer of 2002 after inflation is taken into account. The total for that summer was $3.79 billion, or $4.39 billion adjusted for inflation.
 Movie theaters sold about 606 million tickets from the first weekend in May through yesterday, according to the tracking firm Media by Numbers, down from a peak of 653 million in 2002. ''There was certainly brisk business at theaters this summer, but I think a lot of people expected attendance would rebound to a larger degree,'' said Paul Dergarabedian, president of Media by Numbers.
 In contrast to some recent summers, all of the major studios got a turn at the feeding trough this year, said Gitesh Pandya, editor of the Web site Box Office Guru. Among the top 10 movies were films from Paramount, Sony, 20th Century Fox, Universal, Walt Disney and Warner Brothers.
 The top three movies of the summer, as judged on their global popularity, were ''Spider-Man 3'' (Sony); ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' (Disney); and ''Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix'' (Warner Brothers). All three movies are hovering in the $900 million range, according to Mr. Pandya, with ''Shrek the Third'' not far behind.
 ''For these big sequels, international growth was the story,'' Mr. Pandya said. 
 Paramount led the summer in market share, largely because of the performance of movies incubated at its DreamWorks unit. The studio's ''Transformers'' grew into a monster hit, selling more than $300 million in tickets in the United States alone.
 Also notable was Universal's performance. The studio was responsible for the summer's biggest flop in ''Evan Almighty,'' but racked up impressive receipts for the raunchy comedy ''Knocked Up'' and the thriller ''The Bourne Ultimatum,'' which critics praised and which managed to outperform two previous installments, a rare feat for the third movie in a franchise.
 ''We're thrilled that business was so strong,'' said Nikki Rocco, president of Universal Pictures distribution.
 The summer is poised to end on a quiet note. Through yesterday, overall ticket sales for the Labor Day weekend declined compared to last year, according to Box Office Mojo. In first place was ''Halloween,'' a remake of the classic horror film from the Weinstein Company and distributor MGM, with $26.5 million. The performance shows that the horror genre, while troubled, still has legs when packaged correctly, box office analysts said.
 Rounding out the top five for the weekend were: ''Superbad'' ($12.2 million); ''Balls of Fury'' ($11.6 million); ''The Bourne Ultimatum'' ($10.2 million); and ''Rush Hour 3'' ($8.6 million).

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about box-office results for the summer film season referred incorrectly to ticket sales for the 2007 Labor Day weekend compared with the same weekend in 2006. Sales increased 12 percent in 2007; they did not decrease. Also, the article misattributed a quotation about labor strife in Hollywood. It was Gitesh Pandya, publisher of the Web site Box Office Guru -- not Brandon Gray, publisher of another site, Box Office Mojo -- who said, ''You don't want to celebrate too much at a time when you're negotiating new contracts.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''The Bourne Ultimatum'' outperformed its two predecessors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASIN BOLAND/UNIVERSAL PICTURES)(pg. C1)
Studio executives were quick to point out that the blockbuster hit ''Spider-Man 3'' was among the most expensive films ever made.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COLUMBIA PICTURES)
 ''Evan Almighty,'' starring Steve Carell, cost an estimated $200 million, but made about $100 million at United States theaters.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RHYTHM & HUES/UNIVERSAL PICTURES) CHART: Hollywood's Take: Box office sales exceeded $4 billion this summer.(Source: Media by Numbers)(pg.C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (87%); MOVIE REVENUES (79%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); COMEDY FILMS (74%); HORROR FILMS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WRITERS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: STEVE CARELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



69 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PATCHWORK CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2249 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Bear Brunt of Anger In New Orleans

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON and JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
Maxine Cassin, a prominent local poet, thought her homeowners insurance would be more than enough to cover the $100,000 of hurricane damage to her Uptown house here. But two years after Hurricane Katrina hit, Ms. Cassin and her husband, Joseph, are still stranded far from home; their insurer has offered them just $41,000.
 Emile J. Labat III, a funeral home owner and real estate investor, thought his $300,000 homeowners policy, along with federal flood insurance, would repay him for repairing his house on Elysian Fields Avenue. But now Mr. Labat feels he was deceived. Many of his losses were not covered, and he was stunned that his deductible worked out to be $16,000.
 June Rees, a retired nursing professor, gave up on living in New Orleans and reluctantly moved 75 miles away to avoid skyrocketing insurance costs. The price of her homeowners and flood insurance was going to quadruple, to $8,000 a year, and it still would not have covered wind or hail damage. 
 ''I've just been ripped out of it,'' Ms. Rees said of leaving her home in New Orleans, ''as if somebody tore me away from everything I'm grounded to.''
 Insurance companies may have paid out $11 billion to Louisianians in the two years since Hurricane Katrina, but they have also become a new villain in the tales people tell about the slow recovery here. Every neighborhood is full of horror stories about companies that reneged on their promises, offered only pennies on the dollar in settlements, dribbled out payments, deliberately underestimated the costs of repairs, dropped longtime customers and sharply increased the price of coverage. 
 And it is not just talk. Though, traditionally, relatively few customers sue their insurance companies, about 6,600 insurance-related lawsuits have landed in Federal District Court here; 3,700 of them are pending. Few have gone to trial. Some homeowners have settled; other cases have been dismissed or sent to state courts, which are also handling thousands of disputes. 
 Thousands of formal complaints have been filed with the Louisiana Department of Insurance, 4,700 of them in 2006 alone. That is just a tiny fraction of the number of people who feel aggrieved, regulators say: for half a year after the storm, calls to the department reached 20,000 a month.
 Louisiana estimates that, on average, homeowners have received $5,700 less than the state believed they should have after the storm, leaving the government's rebuilding program, the Road Home, responsible for covering an extra $900 million of losses for 160,000 families. And even that program, originally expected to cost about $7.5 billion but now projected to cost several billion more, is not paying enough to make many homeowners whole again.
 The usually eye-glazing topic of homeowners insurance is so incendiary now that State Senator Walter J. Boasso, a Republican turned Democratic candidate for governor, has proposed jailing insurance executives found to have acted in bad faith.
 Disputing Damage Causes
 Insurance companies say the $11 billion they have paid for damage to houses in Louisiana is a record. But they have refused to pay for damage they contend was caused by flooding -- which is generally not covered by homeowners insurance -- even though many people here believe much of that damage was caused by hurricane wind, which usually is covered. 
 Several lawsuits here and in Mississippi accuse insurance companies of trying to overstate flood damage so that taxpayers would pick up more of the tab through the federal flood insurance program, which has paid out $13 billion in Louisiana. These contentions have prompted several federal investigations. In other cases, customers are arguing that the companies used deceptive business practices, putting pressure on engineers and insurance adjusters and deliberately underestimating the costs of repairs. 
 Industry spokesmen say that most homeowners are satisfied and that 99 percent of homeowners' claims have been settled. Any problems stemmed from the huge size of the disaster, they contend, or from homeowners' failure to buy adequate insurance or to read their policies carefully. Rising rates, they say, reflect a more realistic sense of the risk homeowners assume by living in dangerous coastal areas.
 ''The insurers did an admirable job under very difficult, unique and extreme circumstances,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the president and chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York. ''The vast majority of homeowners affected by Katrina are happy and pleased with the settlements they received from their insurers.''
 But in New Orleans, many people say that just because they stopped fighting their insurers does not mean they are satisfied. 
 ''You're so worn down by everything you've been through that you just don't have the fight left in you,'' said Yolanda Moon, who had expected to receive $39,000 from her insurance policy for wind damage. Instead, she and her husband got $3,000.
 Profits and Pain
 Byron McDonald admits that by neighborhood standards he may have spent too much money -- $350,000 -- to build his two-story brick house in the Gentilly neighborhood here, which was finished in 2000. But Mr. McDonald, 61, said he wanted a place he could live in until he died, so he was not worried about the resale value. 
 The owner of a party supply company, Mr. McDonald bought the maximum flood policy available from the government program, $250,000, and about $200,000 in private homeowners insurance to cover wind damage. 
 After the house took on five feet of water during Hurricane Katrina, the government flood program paid Mr. McDonald the full amount, plus $67,000 for contents. 
 Mr. McDonald believed that his private insurer, the Hanover Insurance Group, was supposed to pay for damage above the flood line. Hurricane Katrina's winds had torn a ventilator off the roof, leaving a big hole for rainwater to pour through, and the water had damaged hardwood floors upstairs and kitchen cabinets. He said he had $200,000 worth of wind damage.
 But Hanover's response was different from the federal flood program's. The company assessed him a $5,000 deductible and has paid him only $900, he said. 
 Hanover, he said, did pay him $1,500 for temporary living expenses, but then demanded it back when it decided that his losses had come from flooding. He said he had spent $53,000, mostly to rent places to live in other parts of the state. Dealing with his insurance company, he said, ''is like talking to a wall.''
 Because Mr. McDonald has sued Hanover, Michael F. Buckley, a spokesman for the company, declined to comment on the claim. But he said Hanover had paid more than $500 million for damages from Hurricane Katrina in Louisiana and was ''proud of the work we've done in response to the storm.''
 Other homeowners and insurance adjusters say Mr. McDonald's situation is part of a regionwide pattern in which insurance companies have tried to reduce the amount they owe policy owners, often by shifting the costs to the taxpayer-supported flood insurance program. One group of former adjusters who contend these practices have occurred filed a federal whistle-blower lawsuit, hoping to collect a share of anything the government might recover from insurance companies. 
 The group's lawyer, Allan Kanner, said he had gathered evidence that private insurance companies are putting the burden on taxpayers to cover the companies' own losses at more than 150 homes. Included are four on the eastern edge of New Orleans that he says received about $95,000 apiece, even though their damage had been caused by wind and rain, not flood. 
 The insurers, including State Farm and Allstate, the two biggest in Louisiana, adamantly deny that they improperly shifted claims to the federal flood program. ''When the wind blows for a certain number of hours before the levees broke, it's a difficult call,'' said Joseph Annotti, the spokesman for the Property Casualty Insurers of America. ''But the adjusters made the best call they could.''
 A federal investigation into similar accusations in Mississippi is continuing.
 The insurance companies have, however, scored a victory in federal court here, where a judge ruled recently that, in effect, anything homeowners collect in federal flood insurance should be deducted from the amount that private insurance companies may owe them, said Gregory P. DiLeo, a lawyer representing policyholders. 
 Although the judge intended to make sure that owners could not earn a profit from their insurance payouts, ''Homeowners are saying, 'That's not fair. I paid for two coverages,' '' Mr. DiLeo said.
 The complaints about low payments to hurricane victims come on top of widespread criticism that insurance companies are profiting off their customers' pain. The critics cite record industry profits of $48 billion in 2005 and $68 billion last year, while policies cover less and cost more.
 Insurance companies, which traditionally have made much of their profits by investing premiums until the money was needed to pay claims, are now paying back to policy holders less of the premium money they collect, according to data from the A. M. Best Company, which evaluates insurers. 
 These trends began well before Hurricane Katrina hit, but the most recent period ''has been the worst,'' said J. Robert Hunter, director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America.
 Insurers say they began paring back coverage and raising rates on home insurance when costs from big claims began eating into their profits, and as competitors selling only auto insurance began luring away their most lucrative customers. 
 In 2005, home insurers in Louisiana and in other coastal areas lost billions because of Hurricane Katrina and other storms, said Mr. Hartwig, of the insurance trade group, even as profits went up elsewhere in the country and for other kinds of insurance. Last year, profits went up throughout the industry because no hurricanes made landfall in the United States.
 Mr. Hartwig said that insurers were not insensitive or greedy, but that ''an insurer that is financially weak or insolvent is no use to anybody.''
 Premiums Out of Reach
 The extensive damage done by the storms of 2005 has sharply raised the cost of homeowners' insurance in the region, for those who can find a policy at all. Those costs have become a major impediment to recovery. 
 ''It makes it very difficult for people, particularly those of marginal means, who want to come back, to rebuild,'' said Lawrence Ponoroff, the dean of the Tulane University School of Law here. ''It is very tough on institutions and on attracting new business to the area.''
 The higher premiums have made buying a house -- or selling one -- here more difficult, said Lynda Nugent Smith, who has been selling real estate here for 34 years. ''All of a sudden your insurance goes from $2,000 a year to $6,000 a year,'' Ms. Smith said. ''It's just that cherry on top that makes the whole pile of ice cream and whipped cream fall over.'' 
 Spiking insurance prices have also discouraged builders from putting up much-needed rental housing here and are causing big problems for nonprofit groups trying to develop housing for the poor and the elderly.
 One such group, Enterprise Community Partners, has 11 projects on the drawing board, but only one deal has closed. And the insurance on the project is about $2,100 a year per unit, almost seven times more than it would have been before the storm, said Michelle K. Whetten, Gulf Coast director for Enterprise. ''Another issue,'' she added, ''is getting a policy at all.''
 James J. Donelon, the state insurance commissioner, said that some companies were no longer writing new policies in Louisiana and that many were raising prices, increasing deductibles, and cutting coverage for wind and hail. (The state is so worried that insurers will stop doing business there that it has agreed to spend $100 million in incentives to lure companies.)
 Mr. Annotti, the insurance industry spokesman, said the billions of dollars paid out for the unexpected surge of hurricanes in recent years has pushed insurers for the first time to focus on how crowded the coastlines have become with expensive homes and businesses.
 ''From a business perspective,'' he said, ''you look at the coastal markets and the catastrophic exposure and you say, 'That's a dangerous place to write policies. I need to charge more or limit what I'm writing.' ''
 State laws are supposed to protect long-time customers from losing their insurance; even so, many people in Louisiana report that their insurance policies have been canceled.
 Take Terral E. Miller, a sales executive who bought his first and only house in the Lakeview neighborhood in 1981. ''We were very happy there, we enjoyed it very much, and it was almost paid for,'' he said of the two-story tan-brick house that backed up to the 17th Street Canal, which breached after the storm.
 Shortly after the storm, Mr. Miller, 50, was found to have colon cancer, which has since spread to his lungs and forced him to retire. He lives in an apartment in a different neighborhood. Earlier this year, he said, his insurer canceled the policy on the shell of the Lakeview house, on the ground that the house was unoccupied, leaving him without any liability coverage.
 With everything else he was going through, that was the last straw, Mr. Miller said. In April, he had the house bulldozed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Decreasing Payouts: Insurance companies nationwide are paying customers less for claims in the last few years, measured as a percentage of the premiums they collect. (Source: The A.M. Best Company) Chart shows bar graph from 1982 to 2006 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); FAMILY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); LITIGATION (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); GOVERNORS (61%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



70 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
HOLIDAY The markets, government offices and most businesses are closed today in observance of Labor Day. 
 ECONOMIC INDICATORS The Federal Reserve will be in the forefront of investors' minds, and it will have some relevant data to weigh this week. Most important will be the unemployment report for August (Friday). Other reports: the Institute of Supply Management's manufacturing index for August and July construction spending (Tuesday); the Fed's beige book report on regional economic conditions (Wednesday); second-quarter productivity and unit labor costs and the August ISM service index, (Thursday); and July wholesale trade inventories (Friday). 
 COMPANY REPORTS The only earnings of note will be on Thursday, when Campbell Soup and Hovnanian Enterprises report. Hovnanian will give further insight into the slumping housing industry. 
 AUTO SALES Automakers are scheduled to report their sales for August, and analysts predict another weak month (Tuesday). In the midst of negotiations between the carmakers and the United Automobile Workers, the union's president, Ron Gettelfinger, is scheduled to speak at the Detroit Economic Club (Thursday). 
 COURT ACTION A jury trial is set to begin in federal court in Boston to decide whether Roche Holding's anti-anemia drug infringes Amgen's patents (Tuesday). 
 APPLE NEWS Apple is having a ''special event'' at which it may unveil new iPods or updates to existing ones (Wednesday). 
 PROXY FIGHTH&R Block is expected announce at its annual meeting the results of a proxy fight with Breeden Capital Management, whose leader, Richard Breeden, is seeking to replace three directors (Thursday). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); US LABOR DAY (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (66%); JURY TRIALS (66%); PATENTS (65%); ANEMIA (51%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (83%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (56%); ROCHE HOLDING AG (55%); AMGEN INC (55%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (56%); ROG (SWX) (55%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (56%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%)

PERSON: ARA K HOVNANIAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



71 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Mexican President Assails U.S. Measures on Migrants

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
President Felipe Calderon harshly criticized the United States government on Sunday for the recent crackdown on illegal immigrants, saying it has led to the persecution of immigrant workers without visas.
 The Bush administration has stepped up raids on factories and farms suspected of hiring illegal workers, imposing heavy fines and deporting a record number of illegal immigrants in 2006. The United States Congress this summer failed to approve proposed legislation to revamp immigration laws to make it easier for Mexican immigrants to gain citizenship or temporary work visas, disappointing the Calderon administration. 
 ''In the name of the government of Mexico, I again issue an energetic protest against the unilateral measures taken by the Congress and the United States government that exacerbate the persecution and the vexing treatment against undocumented Mexican workers,'' Mr. Calderon said in his annual formal address to the nation. 
 ''The insensitivity shown toward those who have contributed to the economy and the United States society has been an inducement to redouble the struggle to recognize the enormous contribution to the economy of both countries and to defend their rights.''
 As he has in the past, Mr. Calderon called on the United States Congress to pass changes to immigration law that would grant legal status to about 12 million Mexicans living and working illegally in the United States. He also reiterated his strong opposition to plans to build more fences and other barriers along much of the southern border. The assembled business executives and dignitaries gave him a standing ovation. 
 Criticizing the United States for its treatment of illegal Mexican immigrants has become routine for most Mexican politicians, including Mr. Calderon. Because the immigrants send home about $20 billion a year and because the yearly migration of more than 400,000 people relieves Mexico of masses of the poor, the government here has little incentive either to stem the migration northward or to support stricter measures making it harder for Mexicans to cross the border. 
 As the United States has stepped up enforcement efforts over the last two years, it has sent more and more Mexican immigrants home, where they have little or no work. Last year, Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents deported 183,431 people after raids nationwide. 
 The border patrol, meanwhile, has reported steep declines in apprehensions along the border over the last year, suggesting that fewer people are trying to enter illegally in light of beefed-up patrols and new physical barriers. 
 In his speech, Mr. Calderon, who has acknowledged that he has relatives who migrated to the United States, suggested that the deportation of undocumented immigrants bordered on a violation of human rights, and he vowed to help illegal migrants. 
 ''I have said that Mexico does not stop at its border, that wherever there is a Mexican, there is Mexico,'' he said. ''And, for this reason, the government action on behalf of our countrymen is guided by principles, for the defense and protection of their rights.''
 American employers who ignore immigration laws may face criminal charges and higher fines under a new enforcement effort announced in August. 
 Last week, Mr. Calderon, a conservative, met with Elvira Arellano, 32, a Mexican who entered the United states illegally and became famous among advocates for Mexican immigrants for defying deportation orders and claiming sanctuary in a Chicago church for a year. In a meeting in his Los Pinos residence, he promised to help Ms. Arellano obtain a visa for the United States.
 Mr. Calderon, who took office last December after a razor-thin victory, was forced to deliver his annual state-of-the-nation speech to an invited audience in the National Palace on Sunday because on Saturday leftist lawmakers refused to let him deliver it to Congress, as presidents have done traditionally. He sent it to Congress in writing instead.
 Mr. Calderon also urged Congress to pass a tax reform bill, to open the energy sector to more foreign investment and to take other measures he maintains will make Mexico more competitive and will create jobs. He said his goal as president was to generate more wealth and distribute it more equally.
 But he acknowledged that he must win over lawmakers to accomplish anything. ''It is possible to transform Mexico, but it cannot be done by decree,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); POLITICS (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (66%); CITIZENSHIP (57%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



72 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Pact Broadening, North Korea And U.S. Say

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
The top American negotiator with North Korea said yesterday that the country had agreed to disable its main nuclear fuel production plant by the end of the year and to account to international monitors for all of its nuclear programs, including what American intelligence agencies say they believe was a second, secret program purchased from Pakistan.
 At the end of a two-day meeting in Geneva -- exactly the kind of one-on-one session that the Bush administration had refused to hold in recent years -- Christopher R. Hill, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, said the two sides had agreed on what would be a speedy next step, following action by North Korea this summer to turn off its main nuclear reactor. 
 ''One thing that we agreed on is that the D.P.R.K. will provide a full declaration of all of their nuclear programs and will disable their nuclear programs by the end of this year, 2007,'' Mr. Hill told reporters in Geneva, according to The Associated Press. He was using the initials for the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the North's formal name.
 But in a separate news conference, his counterpart, Kim Kye-gwan, who heads the North Korean negotiating team, made no mention of an end-of-the-year deadline. He spoke instead of an accord to disable North Korea's equipment and provide an accounting of its facilities, fuel and weapons in return for what he called ''political and economic compensation.''
 If the North Koreans meet the schedule and disable their equipment, it would be a major victory for the Bush administration, at a time when it is eager to claim progress on some diplomatic front to offset its problems in Iraq. Whether to offer the North rewards, including oil and, eventually, removal from the list of state sponsors of terrorism and diplomatic recognition, has been the subject of a six-year struggle within the Bush administration.
 But most of the hawks who have opposed such offers are now gone, and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has given Mr. Hill far more latitude to strike a deal, and to meet the North Koreans outside of ''six party talks'' -- the discussions that have also included Russia, China, Japan and South Korea. Those talks are expected to resume in mid-September, and the weekend meeting was cast as a prelude to any agreement reached there.
 The hawks are still unhappy, and have suggested that Mr. Hill is giving away too much. 
 ''There is still simply no evidence that Pyongyang has made a decision to abandon its long-held strategic objective to have a credible nuclear-weapons capability,'' John R. Bolton, the former American ambassador to the United Nations and, in President Bush's first term, the top State Department official on counterproliferation, wrote in The Asian Wall Street Journal this weekend. 
 ''This inconvenient fact should make it impossible for the State Department to concede on other issues, even if it were inclined to do so,'' he said. ''Creative minds are therefore working on ways to explain that any forthcoming North Korean declaration of its nuclear capabilities is 'full and complete,' thus eliminating the remaining troubling obstacles to full normalization of relations.''
 When the Bush administration came into office, North Korea was still appearing to abide by a nuclear freeze that it had negotiated in 1994 with the Clinton administration. But that deal fell apart after the Bush administration accused the North of cheating on the agreement, purchasing uranium enrichment equipment from Abdul Qadeer Khan's nuclear network, based in Pakistan. 
 While Mr. Khan and his associates have confirmed they made such sales, it is unclear what, if anything, the North did with the equipment. Mr. Hill said yesterday that that question would have to be answered as part of any full declaration. American intelligence agencies said earlier this year that they were uncertain what progress the North had made with that program, if any.
 The North Koreans conducted a nuclear test last October, though it was not entirely successful. It is unclear how many other nuclear devices they have produced, though intelligence agencies have estimated that they may have the material for between eight and a dozen. The administration's critics, including Mr. Bolton, have said it is almost impossible to imagine that the North would say how many weapons it had or where those weapons, or the fuel to manufacture new ones, were situated. So far, there is no agreement for an intrusive inspection system.
 Still, if the facilities at the Yongbyon nuclear plant are truly ''disabled,'' a term no one has yet defined, it would probably prevent the North from manufacturing new weapons and expanding its arsenal. Mr. Kim said yesterday that ''we made it clear, we showed clear willingness to declare and dismantle all nuclear facilities.''
 Mr. Hill said that ''we have to work out some of the details'' on exactly what facilities would be disabled. ''We will have a declaration in time to disable what needs to be disabled,'' he said, adding that ''for example, the Yongbyon reactor would have to be included.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher R. Hill, right, and Kim Kye-gwan, center, back to camera, reached an accord in Geneva after weekend talks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALVATORE DI NOLFI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



73 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: On Two Fronts, One Nuclear, Iran Is Defiant

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and NAZILA FATHI; David E. Sanger and William J. Broad contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Iran, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Iran's leaders issued dual, defiant statements on Sunday, with the president announcing that the nation had 3,000 active centrifuges to enrich uranium and the top ayatollah appointing a new Islamic Revolutionary Guards commander who once advocated military force against students.
 The pairing of the messages, just days after the United Nations' top nuclear official said Iran was striking conciliatory poses, appeared intended to reaffirm the country's refusal to back down to pressure from the United States over its nuclear program and its role in Iraq, political analysts in Iran said. And it came as the Bush administration was celebrating progress in its talks with North Korea to shut down that country's nuclear programs. 
 Indeed, the timing and tone of Iran's declarations may be more politically significant than their content, particularly in the case of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's announcement that Iran had finally reached its stated goal of developing 3,000 centrifuges.
 Many technical experts have expressed skepticism over Iran's periodic claims of enrichment breakthroughs, saying the assertions often turn out to be exaggerated. 
 That seemed to be the case again on Sunday, though nuclear experts said that even if Mr. Ahmadinejad was overreaching, it would be only a matter of time before the boast became true. The most recent report of the International Atomic Energy Agency, released Thursday, said Iran had 1,968 centrifuges enriching uranium at its main Natanz plant, 328 in testing, and 328 in assembly -- for a total of 2,624. The report noted that the assessment was accurate as of Aug. 19, or two weeks ago.
 The goal of 3,000 centrifuges is significant to nuclear experts: they say that if Iran could spin that many centrifuges nonstop for a year, it could make enough highly enriched uranium for a single atom bomb.
 But Mohamed ElBaradei, the atomic energy agency director general, said in an interview last week that Iran seemed to be intentionally slowing its progress in an effort to strike a conciliatory note as the United Nations Security Council demanded it stop the nuclear work completely. ''My gut feeling,'' he said, ''is that it's primarily for political reasons.''
 Still, Mr. Ahmadinejad's new claim was a direct challenge to that notion, and to efforts by the United States and European countries to impose harsher sanctions against Iran. ''The West thought the Iranian nation would give in after just a resolution, but now we have taken another step in the nuclear progress and launched more than 3,000 centrifuge machines, installing a new cascade every week,'' state television quoted the president as saying.
 The White House warned that a new round of sanctions was likely in the wake of Iran's refusal to cooperate. ''This kind of announcement is inconsistent with Iran's recent comments on cooperation with the I.A.E.A.,'' said a spokesman, Robert W. Saliterman. 
 The coinciding message about the change at the top of the Revolutionary Guards, made by the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, had distinct ramifications for the United States as well. 
 There have been reports that the Bush administration is considering declaring the Revolutionary Guards a terrorist organization, opening the way to further economic sanctions against Iran because the Guards are involved in nearly every aspect of the state-controlled economy. (Last week, a senior administration official involved in the internal debate said the designation may instead be limited to the Quds Force, which the United States accuses of being particularly active in Iraq.)
 The Revolutionary Guards are also believed to be deeply involved in the country's nuclear program, and any action against it or the Quds Force is perceived in Washington as a way of stepping up pressure on Iran's nuclear aspirations as well.
 Iran still rejects Western accusations that it is seeking nuclear weapons, insisting that its program is solely for peaceful purposes. And it has reached agreement with the atomic energy agency finally to answer questions about many years of past nuclear activities that have fueled suspicions that it has been secretly trying to develop a weapons program.
 But that agreement was dismissed by the United States as a half step that ignored Washington and Europe's primary demand: that Iran stop enrichment. 
 Iran's statements, in addition to ratcheting up defiance of international pressure, had distinct domestic political overtones as well, analysts said. ''He has to feed his domestic clientele,'' one European diplomat who works with the atomic agency said Sunday.
 In Tehran, Saeed Leylaz, a political analyst and former government official, said, ''What is important is the spirit that dominates the system, and that has not changed.'' 
 The news of the change at the top of the Revolutionary Guards, in particular, was greeted with surprise and keen interest by Iranians. 
 Ayatollah Khamenei announced that Gen. Yahya Rahim Safavi, who had led the force for a decade, would be replaced by Brig. Gen. Mohammad Ali Jafari.
 The Guards, which has about 200,000 members, controls a huge empire that has a stake in every significant corner of Iran's economy and its civil system of governance. Mr. Ahmadinejad was a member of the Guards during the 1980 to 1988 war with Iraq, and he has placed dozens of former members in leadership positions around the country and in the central government in Tehran.
 The Guards are, by design, the most economic and politically independent body in the country, outside of the supreme leader's office. General Jafari has an established record of support for the theocratic system of government, and its hard-line policies.
 In 1999, he showed a willingness to use the guard's military force to quell student riots. In a letter to Mohammad Khatami, then the president, he wrote, ''We have reached the end of our rope and can no longer tolerate it if the situation is not confronted.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brig. Gen. Mohammad Ali Jafari in December 2006.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ISNA, VIA AFP -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. A5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRIFUGES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); RELIGION (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



74 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: With a New Speech, Clinton Lays Out Goals as President

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: PORTSMOUTH, N.H., Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York unveiled a new stump speech on Sunday, outlining the ''four big goals'' she would have as president and saying she was willing to ''work within the system'' and make ''principled compromises'' to achieve them.
 Praising the leadership styles of Presidents Theodore Roosevelt, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson, Mrs. Clinton described herself as a pragmatist and an alliance-builder. Without naming names, she said her strategies would yield more results than those of her two chief rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina. 
 ''From my time in the White House and in the Senate, I learned you bring change by working in the system established by the Constitution,'' Mrs. Clinton said at an early afternoon rally in Concord, drawing a pointed contrast to the outsider messages of Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards. Referring to the Roosevelts and Johnson, she said, ''They got big things done because they knew it wasn't just about the dream, it's about the results.''
 ''I want to work within the system,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''You can't pretend the system doesn't exist.''
 Mrs. Clinton, who has won praise from some Republican senators for working with them on legislation, said she would try to follow that approach as president, but without sacrificing important values like preserving Social Security and protecting abortion rights.
 ''You have to know when to stick to your principles and fight,'' she said, ''and know when to make principled compromises.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton's remarks -- a sharpened version of the speech she had been delivering for months -- drew quick criticism from spokesmen for Mr. Obama and Mr. Edwards.
 The spokesmen both said that their candidates would curtail the power of lobbyists and take other steps to change the system in Washington more than Mrs. Clinton would.
 Mrs. Clinton spoke on the first day of a two-day kickoff for her fall push, which her camp is calling ''The Change We Need,'' a parry to Mr. Obama's effort to position himself as the candidate of change. The stage at Mrs. Clinton's rallies, in Concord and here in Portsmouth, included the words ''Change + Experience'' -- an example of the Clinton camp's argument that she is the most experienced candidate and would still represent change, as a woman and an ideological opposite of President Bush.
 ''Some people think you should have to choose between change and experience,'' Mrs. Clinton said in Concord. ''Well, with me, you don't have to choose. I have spent my entire life fighting for change.''
 Later, in Portsmouth, Mrs. Clinton added: ''Change is just a word without the strength and experience to make it happen.'' 
 In laying out her four goals, Mrs. Clinton did not announce any major new policy initiatives, though she did say she would unveil her universal health insurance plan in two weeks.
 The four goals were largely thematic: ''restore America's standing in the world,'' ''rebuild America's middle class and the economy to support it,'' ''reform our government'' and ''reclaim the future for our children.''
 On the last goal, Mrs. Clinton turned more personal, saying she wanted her presidency to be a means of helping parents raise their children. ''I want to be able to say to you as your president, 'Our children are well,' '' she said.
 Former President Bill Clinton, who accompanied his wife Sunday and mostly stuck to introducing her at the rallies, said in an aside at one point that he was ''shocked'' about recent revelations that a top fund-raiser for his wife, Norman Hsu, had been a fugitive from justice in California, according to a Newsday blog.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, with her husband, spoke yesterday in Concord, N.H.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (91%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007



75 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Blasting the Mountaintops for Coal

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 The Bush administration's plan to loosen regulations on mountaintop removal coal mining (''Rule to Expand Mountaintop Coal Mining,'' front page, Aug. 23) is a death warrant for Appalachian communities. Rather than taking coal out of the mountain, this destructive process takes the mountain off the coal. 
 Mountaintop removal has flattened more than 400 mountains, transforming their healthy woodlands into toxic sludge and rubble that has clogged more than 750 miles of streams. Such large-scale decimation forces animal species and American citizens from their homes. 
 Coal burning is also America's single largest emitter of climate-changing greenhouse gases. The president has acknowledged the critical threat posed by global warming; for him to claim that we need more coal power is dangerous and false. 
 The United States can reduce its use of dirty coal and meet its growing energy demand by investing in energy efficiency and renewable energy sources such as wind and solar power. 
 Michael Brune Executive Director Rainforest Action Network San Francisco, Aug. 23, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Ravaging Appalachia'' (editorial, Aug. 27): 
 In a legislative climate that supports the extraction of energy-producing fossil fuels by any means necessary, the problem of disposing of ''excess spoil fills'' (mine waste) ultimately will not be confined to Appalachia. There is underground coal in 23 of the continental United States. 
 If our demands for energy continue at current levels, other towns, cities, national monuments and rivers could disappear forever, buried under piles of rubble that were once ''purple mountains'' and ''fruited plains.'' 
 Janet Wells Greene New York, Aug. 27, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Blowing the tops off mountains for coal in West Virginia, drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for oil, and slowing the pace of gas mileage and emission improvements -- these are the unimaginative policy choices of people and groups whose self-interested agendas will always supersede the public good. This pattern of unenlightened consumption thrives on denial. 
 It pains me to observe how deaf we have been to earlier calls to action by Al Gore and others starting in the early 1990s. By now we should have created the green technology that would have created many high-skill jobs and made these reckless acts of irreversible destruction unnecessary even to the most short-termed and self-interested. 
 William Macaux East Greenwich, R.I., Aug. 27, 2007
 To the Editor:
 The laying waste to the mountains, forests and river valleys of beautiful Appalachia is only one chapter in the saga of Bush administration assaults on the environment, our national patrimony. Where oh where is the Democrats' plan to rectify the hideous damage? We urgently need one, and soon. 
 Joan K. Davidson New York, Aug. 28, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Rule to Expand Mountaintop Coal Mining'' (front page, Aug. 23):
 The only reason that throwing mountaintops into streams and valleys might appear to be economical is that the value of the natural resources destroyed is not in the equation. 
 Until we put a price on the services the natural environment provides, our economy will make costly choices. Further, the climate change cost of burning the coal should be included in the calculation.
 The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection published a pioneering assessment in April of the value of the state's natural capital, which provides services like cleaning the air and water, preventing floods, pollination, beauty, wildlife and plant habitat, and weather moderation. 
 New Jersey's natural services were conservatively valued at $288 billion to $660 billion. 
 The United States economy must stop ignoring the value of what nature gives humans for free. 
 Bill Shore Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., Aug. 23, 2007 The writer is executive secretary of Nature Network.
 To the Editor:
 Let President Bush's latest surge in his war on the environment serve as a wake-up call to the American people as we witness the razing of our forests, the blasting of our mountain ranges and the decimation of communities. 
 The president and his coal lobby are on the verge of a victory over the very landscape of our nation. The future is unrecognizable. 
 Gabriel Fenigsohn New York, Aug. 23, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOSEPH HART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); MINE WASTE REMEDIATION (76%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); WIND ENERGY (73%); WILDLIFE (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); ANIMALS (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RAIN FORESTS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: RAINFOREST ACTION NETWORK (55%)

PERSON: AL GORE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



76 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Where Firefighters Once Worked, Group Sees a Place to Soothe Their Pain

BYLINE: By TRYMAINE LEE

 BODY:
Firefighters have very few places they can go to vent, to shed tears or to admit that their job can be overwhelming. One of those places is a small building along the waterfront in Red Hook, Brooklyn, where a group offers counseling and holistic therapy to firefighters and their families.
 The group, Friends of Firefighters, was established in 2002, born from the Sept. 11 attack of the year before. 
 ''In the beginning, it was just me,'' said Nancy Carbone, the group's founder and executive director. ''This is not an 'I had a brainstorm' thing. I think everyone in New York felt the same desire to help the best they could. Anybody that was here that day or that week was trying to do the best that they could to make the pain a little less.''
 Ms. Carbone said that while so much well-deserved attention was given to fire stations that suffered a heavy toll on 9/11, she believed that the needs of many neighborhood firehouses were being neglected. So she started asking firefighters about their needs, their hurts and frustrations. She learned that many of them just needed to talk, to deal with their stress and emotions. 
 The nonprofit group, which is financed by grants and private donations and sells merchandise online (friendsoffirefighters.org), has offered firefighters therapy and a regimen of holistic healing practices like therapeutic massage and acupuncture. It holds monthly breakfasts led by peer counselors, mostly retired firefighters, and organizes family getaways to upstate New York where counselors help couples and their families hone their communication skills.
 Part of what has made the organization successful is that it is not an official part of the Fire Department and works in a confidential manner, its supporters said. 
 ''Firefighters are not known to come out and say 'I need help,' or 'I have a problem' or 'I want to talk about it,' '' said Stephen J. Cassidy, the president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association, the firefighters' union. ''It's word of mouth. They have a great reputation. The guys know other people who said, 'You know, I went there, and it was great.' That makes it easier for firefighters who may be looking for help, for guidance, to get it.''
 Ms. Carbone said the group, which uses two separate storefronts in Red Hook, is now treating so many firefighters that it is outgrowing its space. She has set her sights on a shuttered old Brooklyn firehouse in Cobble Hill, which was once home to Engine 204. It would be the perfect environment for the people the group serves, Ms. Carbone said, a comfortable and familiar setting. There is one thing in the group's way: competition.
 The city holds the lease to the 4,250-square-foot former firehouse at 299 DeGraw Street. A city steering committee, along with the city's Economic Development Corporation, has sent out requests to cultural institutions and other community-oriented groups for proposals on how to use the building. The committee includes the local Community Board 6, and the city will lease the property to the winning proposal for 10 years at $1 a year, with two five-year options. 
 Engine 204 was closed in 2003, one of six firehouses shut by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration to help balance the city's budget. The decision spurred community outcry. Protesters rallied and barricaded firehouse doors. Some demonstrators, including Stephanie Folwell, a spokeswoman for Friends of Firefighters, were arrested.
 Ms. Folwell, who lives in the same neighborhood as the old Engine 204 building, said she was committed to seeing the firehouse turned back over to the firefighters, if not as a working firehouse then as a house of emotional refuge. 
 ''Knowing that we really help them, whether they say thank you with a handshake, a hug, a smile or tears, that is the reward for us,'' Ms. Folwell said. 
 Craig R. Hammerman, the district manager for Community Board 6, said the committee had no preferred group to take over the building, though reopening it as a functioning firehouse would be the top choice. If not, Mr. Hammerman said, ''We want the property to be retained by firefighters for firefighter use.''
 In addition to Friends of Firefighters, another group seeking to take over the old firehouse is the Doll and Toy Museum of New York City, which does not have its own building and whose collection is now dispersed among several museums. The Economic Development Corporation would not give the names of other groups that have submitted proposals.
 Marlene Hochman, the director and founder of the doll and toy museum, said she wanted to turn the firehouse into what she called the Brooklyn Center for the Arts. Besides exhibiting old dolls and toys, she said, it would also be made available for community groups for meetings, exhibitions or other art or cultural shows.
 ''It's a hot property,'' Ms. Hochman said, adding that an arts center would help Brooklyn ''grow as a well-respected cultural mecca.'' 
 Still, Ms. Hochman agreed with Ms. Carbone on one point: She would leave the building without putting up a fight if a decision was made to make it a working firehouse again.
 Indeed, in the hopes that that will happen, Ms. Carbone said the group would make few structural changes to the building. ''We like to say that we'll be keeping it warm for the Fire Department,'' Ms. Carbone said. ''Engine 204 should belong to the firefighters.''
 Harry Meyers, a retired assistant fire chief, said that though the department offers high-quality private counseling to its firefighters, there was sometimes a sense of unease about seeking help. 
 ''There is a lack of trust there,'' Mr. Meyers said. ''If you show up it's supposed to be super secret. But if it gets out, it can affect your career.''
 With Friends of Firefighters, though, he said, ''People get the help they need without anyone in the department knowing.'' Fire Department officials did not respond to requests for comments about the group.
 On a recent afternoon, Ms. Carbone and Ms. Folwell walked through the old firehouse as part of a tour for interested bidders. Nearly 100 people, including Ms. Hochman's team from the toy and doll museum, milled about the old firehouse with dreams of what could be. 
 ''I can still hear the laughter that is not there now,'' Ms. Carbone said later. ''It was a little odd to see it so empty. It was a home. I see restoring it to a home, a place where firefighters can walk in and immediately feel safe.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On Staten Island last month, a firefighter mourned one of two colleagues who died in the Deutsche Bank building blaze.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); FAMILY (89%); MASSAGE SERVICES (77%); FAMILY TRAVEL (72%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



77 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: As Support From States Lags, Colleges Tack On Student Fees

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
When Emily McLain decided to enroll at the University of Oregon, a significant part of the appeal was low tuition. She had not counted on all the fees that unexpectedly appeared on her bill. 
 ''I had my dad calling me asking, 'What's this for?' '' said Ms. McLain, 22, a political science and international studies major now entering her last year at the university. 
 This year, for instance, the university is charging a $51 ''energy surcharge'' for rising electricity costs. A $270 ''technology fee'' for computer service. There is the $371.25 fee for the campus health center, a $135 fee to maintain buildings and grounds and a $624 ''incidental fee,'' for student activities. And more. 
 All told, fees add up to $1,542, or nearly an additional 40 percent on top of tuition of $3,984. That does not even count additional fees charged for taking certain courses. 
 College administrators say public universities are increasingly tacking on fees for the same reasons that some are experimenting with differential tuition for different majors: state support for higher education has languished, and legislatures shy away from approving tuition increases. Fees can often be set by individual campuses. 
 At just over half the nation's four-year public colleges, fees rose faster than tuition in the 2005-6 school year and the previous year, according to the College Board, which tracks trends in college costs. Over all, in 2005-6 -- the most current year for which there is available data -- fees rose by an average of 8 percent to 11 percent at public four-year institutions, well above the rate of inflation. 
 These days there may be a fee for every imaginable service. The University of Tennessee at Chattanooga this fall is collecting a new $25 health fee. Montana State University Billings for the first time is charging a $10 library fee. The University of North Dakota has imposed a $37 per semester fee to pay for pulling its whole athletic program into Division I. And students at Arizona State University face a new $25 technology fee.
 Some students are rebelling, calling fees an underhanded tuition increase that obscures the real cost of college. In Arizona, students recently called on the Regents to change the fee-setting process. ''A lot of students felt like fees were being used for services that used to be covered by tuition,'' said Serena Unrein, executive director of the Arizona Students' Association.
 In Oregon, students went to the Legislature last spring to demand relief. ''Students want more transparency,'' said Ms. McLain, who is student body president. 
 And in California last year a state judge ordered the University of California system to pay back millions of dollars to the students who sued the university system in 2003 charging that increases in fees violated university assurances that fees would stay fixed for current students. The University of California has appealed the decision.
 Private colleges have fees too but educators say that usually they are dwarfed by tuition, which can be set without seeking approval from lawmakers or any other outsiders. George Washington University became the first college to break the $50,000 mark when it approved for the class of 2011 tuition of $39,210, a food allowance of $3,400 and housing prices of $8,500.
 Public colleges cost far less but the imbalance between fees and tuition can be hefty. In Massachusetts tuition at public universities has not risen in six years. But students are swamped in fees. The University of Massachusetts Amherst charges a service fee, a health fee, an activities fee and a curriculum fee, which together add up to about $4,100, or nearly five times the tuition of $857 per semester. 
 That heavy reliance on fees is partly because the state allows campuses to hold onto that money instead of sending it to the state general treasury to be redistributed. ''What is called tuition goes to the state's general fund, and fees stay on the campus,'' said Robert P. Connolly, a spokesman for UMass. 
 Students who win the state's prestigious John and Abigail Adams Scholarship for high performers have sometimes been shocked to discover that it covers only tuition, not the fees.
 Some university officials argue that fees are an easier sell because they are linked to specific services, like computers and Internet access, and so are more easily understood.
 ''There's a particular appeal for the students who pay it, because they see it and they see the benefit,'' said Dave Frohnmayer, president of the University of Oregon. 
 Mr. Frohnmayer said students at his university were told ahead of time of the fees they would face. ''We're pretty aboveboard about what we do and why we do it,'' he said. 
 The fees add up fast. The University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee is charging almost $400 in fees this fall to cover athletics, student activities and health, among other things. Tuition totals about $3,500 for in-state students living off campus. 
 And at Binghamton University, part of the State University of New York, undergraduate state residents pay $831 in fees -- for athletics, technology, transportation, recreation and other items -- per semester, on top of $2,175 in tuition. 
 Lorena Landeros, 22, a student at the University of Oregon majoring in Spanish and ethnic studies, said she had to take out a short-term loan to cover the costs she had not expected when she enrolled four years ago. ''And I remember calling the office and asking what these fees were,'' Ms. Landeros said. ''Why is it we were having to pay for energy or whatever? From what I remember, they didn't do a very good job of describing it.''
 Last spring, the Oregon Student Association went to State Senator Vicki Walker, a Democrat, who threatened a law freezing all the fees that public colleges charged to students for taking specific majors and courses. The bill did not come to a vote, but nonetheless pressured the university system to form a committee of students and university officials to review the overall fee structure and how fees were set. 
 ''They decided to play ball, which was a good thing,'' Ms. Walker said. She called the fees a ''backdoor tuition increase,'' adding, ''It's not right; it's not fair; it doesn't give people a heads-up.''
 In this past legislative session, Oregon lawmakers also approved the biggest financing increase for the university system in years, raising the operating budget by 22 percent and the budget for construction and repairs by 37 percent. The University of Oregon has now created a ''fee calculator'' to help students estimate what they will have to pay after the inclusion of all fees. 
 ''It seems that we have to have this separate calculator to figure out our whole cost of education,'' said Ms. McLain, who is serving on the fee committee. ''It seems just a little bit crazy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (75%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); JUDGES (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); INFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (84%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (69%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



78 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Leads Productivity Ranking; China Gains

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
American workers are the world's most productive, followed by the Irish, though productivity is rising fastest in China and much of the rest of Asia, according to the International Labor Organization.
 When productivity was measured by the hour rather than by the total number of hours worked, however, Norway, an oil nation, was the most productive, followed by the United States and France, the organization said in a report released over the weekend and published every two years. It mostly used 2006 data.
 ''The difference in rankings can be explained by the fact that annual working hours per person employed are considerably higher in the United States than in the majority of European economies,'' the report said. 
 Ireland was in second place when productivity was measured in total hours worked, moving up from fourth position in 2005. The country was fifth in terms of productivity per hour, up from sixth two years earlier.
 France, where President Nicolas Sarkozy has pushed for a reduction in the workweek to an average of 35 hours, was a notch or two lower in the organization's rankings, whether measured in output over total hours worked or by hour. The same was true with Belgium, another country high in productivity.
 Among wealthy industrial nations, the figures showed that long-term productivity gains were often more marked in Western Europe and Japan than in the United States.
 The average annual rate of American productivity growth was 1.7 percent from 1980 to 2005, whether measured in total hours worked or by hour. By comparison, the annual rise in British output for each worker over the same period was 2.1 percent based on total hours each year, and 2.4 percent if measured by hour.
 French productivity rose 1.5 percent a year based on total hours worked and 2.2 percent when calculated in terms of hourly output.
 For Germany, the rises were 1.4 percent and 1.8 percent respectively, for Italy 1.1 percent and 1.4 percent, and for Japan 1.8 percent and 2.5 percent.
 While China and other parts of East Asia are coming from far behind, productivity growth is fastest in that region, according to the organization, a United Nations specialized agency originally created after World War I to promote employment standards.
 Although the data is sketchy in places, it basically pointed to a near-doubling of productivity in East Asia over the last decade, the group said.
 Output per worker rose to one-fifth of the level of industrial nations in 2006 from one-eighth of that level in 1996, it said.
 In 2006, the productivity rise was 3.3 percent at the global level, 2.1 percent for the industrialized world and 8.5 percent in East Asia.
 Other parts of Asia showed strong, if less spectacular, growth, and the organization noted an improvement in living conditions in Asia generally.
 ''The Asian regions saw a substantial reduction in the number of working women and men living on less than $1 a day,'' it said, adding that the number of working poor in Asia fell by nearly 50 percent, or 148 million, from 1996 to 2006.
 In contrast, weak economic performance in much of sub-Saharan Africa resulted in an increase of 24 million in the number of working poor, those earning less than $1 a day, the report said.
 The report noted that world unemployment edged downward again in 2006, to 6.3 percent from 6.4 percent, and that farming was no longer the dominant source of global employment, even if it was still the main one in the least developed countries.
 Service industries accounted for 42 percent of the world's employment in 2006 and agriculture 36.1 percent, the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (92%); RANKINGS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); WORK WEEK (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (93%); FRANCE (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORWAY (92%); IRELAND (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (76%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



79 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: The American Dream Is Just That

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Americans' Meager Income Gains'' (editorial, Aug. 29) sees a pattern in which ''the spoils of the nation's economic growth have flowed almost exclusively to the wealthy and the extremely wealthy'':
 Suppose the wealthy had shared just a little more of the profits with the general working public. Then more of the workers could have paid for their health care, more could have paid their monthly mortgage increases, more consumers would have bought more goods, and the current financial panic might have been averted. 
 Extreme greed is incompatible with healthy, long-term economic planning.
 Roy Freedle
 Lambertville, N.J., Aug. 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial says we need ''policies to help spread benefits broadly -- be it more progressive taxation, or policies to strengthen public education and increase access to affordable health care.''
 Instead, what we have is a populace desperate to get onto reality TV shows and game shows as the only wild-card remedies against a lifetime of low wages, high taxes and costly benefits.
 We, as a nation, must turn off the television and wake up to the reality that we are falling behind in our wealth. And we will continue to do so until we demand that our government insist on more equitable treatment from the corporations that have stripped our wages, pensions and benefits, and from the banks with their corrupt interest-rate schemes.
 A profound overhaul of banking laws and the tax code would be a good first step toward remedying low wages.
 Deborah Klaus
 Alexandria, Va., Aug. 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Yesterday I was offered a tech-support job for a publicly traded company. It pays a paltry $9 to $10 an hour. When I squawked that this is not a livable wage, I was hesitantly offered $11.75.
 There are no benefits, other than the fact that this is a ''great company'' and would look ''good on my resume.'' Oh, did I forget to mention a company picnic each summer?
 I added up the cost of the two-hour-a-day commute, a mortgage on an average home, health insurance that kicks in only if I am at death's door, home and auto insurance and utilities. The break-even point was $10.35 an hour. Take into account laundry, groceries, clothing and other basic expenses and I am working at a deficit. No more movies, concerts, sporting events, family or friends because I simply cannot afford them.
 Why are some in this prosperous nation of ours so challenged when it comes to comprehending something as simple as paying workers a livable wage? Pay workers sufficiently and they will be loyal and dependable. Stiff them with low wages and they immediately begin to look for something better. Workers are this nation's greatest asset.
 Or is this all a ploy to hold workers hostage between their low-pay jobs and debt so they don't interfere with the lifestyles of those who have more?
 Charles McEniry
 Stoughton, Wis., Aug. 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Bleak Findings on Health Insurance'' (editorial, Aug. 29):
 The number of people without health insurance has risen to 47 million. Critics will point to this as another way in which the Bush administration has failed those not in its ''haves and have-mores'' coterie.
 However, I am sure the president will deal with this problem by allocating more funds for emergency rooms.
 Fred Polvere
 Yonkers, Aug. 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 If I calculate correctly, perhaps a quarter of the American population is living either in poverty or without health care insurance. This is a staggering revelation. 
 While most Americans probably believe that George W. Bush's greatest sin is the war in Iraq, his lasting legacy will be that he let the country lose its direction and compassion. He has all but dashed the American dream for most citizens, in favor of making his wealthy friends even richer. 
 The money spent on the war in Iraq could cover a national health care program for all Americans, with money left over to fully finance programs like No Child Left Behind. But we are dealing with a president who ignores the reports on global warming, and will continue to ignore the plight of the poor and middle class. Henry A. Lowenstein
 New York, Aug. 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 You urge Washington to adopt new policies in taxation and health care. Yet some scholars concede that Washington's initial response to the Depression made things worse, and that the New Deal failed to end the Depression. So when the top 5 percent of taxpayers are already paying two-thirds of all the taxes, let us be a little sober about the limits of government in effecting economic change. Ari Weitzner
 New York, Aug. 29, 2007
 To the Editor:
 You say that the rise in the number of uninsured, who often use emergency rooms, ''drives up everyone's health care costs.'' 
 This argument and a slew of others miss a very important reason to address this crisis: the moral imperative. 
 How can a nation as wealthy as ours sit idly by while millions of Americans, including children, don't have access to health care? It is a shame when a single person in this world can't get the best treatment possible, but that there are children in our own country who can't get even basic health care is beyond shameful: it's an abomination, for which each American eligible to vote bears a moral responsibility.
 Matthew Barnard
 New York, Aug. 29, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LIVING WAGE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); TAX LAW (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (69%); BANKING LAW (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



80 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Water

BYLINE: By HENRY L. HENDERSON. 
Henry L. Henderson is the director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's Midwest office and the founding commissioner for the City of Chicago's Department of Environment.

 BODY:
Chicago
 A PERVERSE spring and summer season descended on United States waters this year, spreading death and destruction like weeds choking an untended garden. 
 First came news that thousands of freshwater fish were bleeding internally and dying in the Great Lakes at the hands of an invasive microbe called viral hemorrhagic septicemia. Then scientists reported that the noxious Chinese mitten crab is gaining a foothold in the Chesapeake and Delaware bays, threatening already fragile native crab populations and contributing to soil erosion. And throughout the summer, defenders of the Adirondack lakes in upstate New York fought an all-out war against Eurasian watermilfoil, a ''stringy herb'' that is elbowing out native aquatic plants at an alarming rate. 
 This onslaught of ''living pollution'' has been particularly apparent and -- in the case of viral hemorrhagic septicemia -- gruesome this year. But it's not new. For decades, the people living along our coastlines have struggled to eradicate or contain foreign plants, animals and microorganisms that enter the United States by the billions each year via international shipping vessels. 
 The annual cost to the United States of attempting to control aquatic invaders is about $9 billion. That number will continue to rise, as will the rate of new invasive species, unless federal, state and local governments work together to regulate their primary source: ballast water, which is sea water taken on board by ships to provide stability during voyages and dumped overboard once they reach their destinations. Ballast water from a single ship can carry up to 4,000 unique species of plants, animals or microorganisms, including pathogens that are a threat to humans. 
 Many studies of aquatic invasive species focus on the Great Lakes because of their large amount of ship traffic and fresh water supply. The Great Lakes constitute nearly 20 percent of the world's available fresh water and are a drinking-water source for millions. More than 160 invasive fish, plant and parasitic species infest the Great Lakes, and researchers discover a new invasive species every eight months. As a result, the lakes' biodiversity and water quality pay a heavy price, as does the region's economy. 
 The sea lamprey, which first appeared in Lake Erie in 1921, destroyed lake trout and walleye commercial fisheries in the Great Lakes. The round goby and ruffe threaten the Lakes' native perch, small-mouth bass and emerald shiner populations. The Great Lakes' $4.5 billion fishing industry, as well as the area's lucrative tourism and sport-fishing industries, are being irrevocably damaged. The cost of controlling and repairing the damages there is $5.7 billion annually.
 But the Great Lakes Basin certainly is not alone. Nationally, the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment reports that environmental losses from introduced fish are $1 billion per year; from arthropods, $2.13 billion; and from mollusks, $1.3 billion. The San Francisco Bay is home to 234 alien species, or 90 percent of the bay's aquatic population. And cholera bacteria in ballast water has been released by marine vessels into the Mobile and Chesapeake bays. 
 So what should be done? Michigan has taken a leading role by passing regulation preventing ocean-going vessels from discharging contaminated ballast water. Shipping companies have tried to challenge the Michigan law, however, a recent dismissal of the case by a federal court gives other states the green light to enact similar legislation. 
 But the federal government has a responsibility to fight invasive species as well. A federal court in California has held that the Clean Water Act applies to ballast water and ordered the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate discharges. The decision is under review by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit -- affirmation would bring federal environmental authorities into the fight. 
 Additionally, numerous pieces of legislation to control and prevent the onslaught of invasive species are languishing before Congress. Federal leaders must move aggressively to consolidate the strongest aspects of proposed bills and pass legislation to provide regulatory support to state and local efforts. Otherwise, American waters will continue to be a dumping ground for ballast water and the unwelcome organisms that come with it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); FISHES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); LAKES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); EROSION (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (77%); WATER QUALITY (77%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (77%); SPORT FISHING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); CRUSTACEANS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (72%); FISHERIES (72%); MARINE VESSELS (71%); SHELLFISH FISHING (71%); ARTHROPODS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) GREAT LAKES (97%); LAKE ERIE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



81 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'MADE IN L.A.'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: When a Fight for More Money Is Also a Battle for Dignity

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

 BODY:
Labor protest is not dead. Nor is it futile, according to ''Made in L.A.,'' an excellent documentary tonight on the PBS anthology series ''P.O.V.'' How many times have we heard about the need for labor to organize when corporate masters place intolerable demands on their employees? Well, here it happens again, and the lesson bears repeating. 
 Though the film depicts a long and arduous campaign conducted by workers, many of ''undocumented'' status, in the Los Angeles garment industry, it is not so much about illegal immigration and its consequences. Congress may not be able to decide how to process the nation's illegal immigrants, but the film understands that they're simply here, an integral component of the economy. Rather, the documentary is about basic human dignity.
 As its focus ''Made in L.A.'' follows three women. Maura Colorado is from El Salvador, having left her country and three children 18 years ago to work in the United States. Maria Pineda, from Mexico, is a loving, married mother of three. Guadalupe Hernandez, a feisty single woman also from Mexico, left six brothers and an abusive father to join her sister in Los Angeles. 
 In 2001 they joined the Garment Worker Center, a nonprofit advocacy group, to report their long hours, lack of compensation and wretched conditions at a clothing factory. It becomes clear that that the garments they've been producing are for one company, Forever 21. The center decides to sue for overtime and unpaid wages, and three years of picketing and boycotting follow. 
 The Worker Center's leaders -- Joann Lo and Kimi Lee, its director -- are cleareyed, determined and inspiring. But their suit is thrown out of court. Such obstacles are not without cost; at one point Ms. Lo talks about the strain and moments of self-doubt.
 When the group wins, on appeal, the right to resume its suit, Forever 21 agrees to go to the bargaining table. Regrettably, two crucial players did not talk to the filmmakers: Do Won Chang, the president of Forever 21, and Ms. Pineda's husband, an alcoholic who discourages her from participating in the campaign. 
 Throughout the protest the three women evolve and find self-respect. Ms. Pineda separates from her husband to bring up their children alone. (They later reconciled, when he became sober.) Ms. Colorado, who loses touch with her kids for a while, is reunited with a son, if not in person. Ms. Hernandez finds a larger mission: Having been hired by the Workers Center, she takes a trip to the Lower East Side Tenement Museum and Ellis Island in New York and acquires a sense of the historical recurrence of their plight. Eventually she takes her message to Hong Kong and the World Trade Organization. Despite the American outsourcing of jobs (a threat that Ms. Colorado acknowledges on camera), her battle has just begun. 
 P.O.V.
 Made in L.A.
 On most PBS stations tonight (check local listings).
 A film by Almudena Carracedo and Robert Bahar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from the PBS documentary ''Made in L.A.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FELICITY MURPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPAREL MFG (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); STRIKES (79%); OVERTIME (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); OUTSOURCING (79%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); BACK PAY (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (75%); BOYCOTTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

TITLE: Made in L.A. (TV Program)>; Made in L.A. (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



82 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: In Asia, Private Equity Is Still Bullish

BYLINE: By DONALD GREENLEES

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Private equity firms are setting records in the size of Asian buyout funds, adding to an existing pool of more than $35 billion that is waiting to be invested in deals in the region, industry participants and analysts said.
 The aggressive fund-raising drive in Asianwide and country-specific buyout funds is taking place at a time of tightening credit markets, volatility in equity markets and some resistance from shareholders and regulators to private equity buyouts.
 Analysts said this mix of conditions posed new challenges for private equity firms in replicating the deals on which they built their reputations of strong returns to investors. 
 But led by several global buyout funds, investors are expected to commit $25 billion more in the second half of this year to private equity funds in Asia, according to the Center for Asia Private Equity Research. That would be on top of $15.4 billion in fresh capital committed to regional funds in the first half of 2007, a rise of 57 percent over the period a year earlier.
 In recent months, big private equity firms have been leapfrogging one another to set records for fund size. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts this year built a $4 billion Asia fund; TPG, formerly the Texas Pacific Group, is expected to close in the coming weeks on an Asia fund of about $4.2 billion; and CVC Capital Partners has built one that could reach $5 billion.
 Even at such sizes, the Asian funds are still well below levels set by buyout funds in more mature markets like Europe, where Kohlberg Kravis, for example, is seeking to raise a fund of at least 7.7 billion euros, or $10.4 billion.
 ''There is so much international capital looking to find a home in private equity generally, and Asia is regarded as particularly attractive at the moment,'' said Andy Thomson, editor of Private Equity International, a magazine in London.
 Asian markets, on the back of strong economic growth, have performed better in recent years, and big investors are increasingly interested in diversifying from traditional regions like Europe and North America.
 But other analysts said the growth of this Asian private equity war chest coincided with increasing difficulties for the industry in completing big-ticket deals, even before the subprime mortgage crisis in the United States put a squeeze on credit markets and brought volatility to stock markets.
 The Center for Asia Private Equity Research has tracked a marked increase in the number and dollar size of deal failures since the start of the year. From January to the end of July, it said 22 deals, valued at $38.9 billion, had failed because of regulatory hurdles or because shareholders of target companies had rejected the price.
 Australia, which has been one of the leading markets in the region for private equity deals during the last two years, has also led the way in prominent failures, including the collapse of the proposed buyout of Qantas Airways.
 In several deals in Australia, private equity buyers were either outbid by strategic investors or shareholders were unwilling to accept the valuations. Elsewhere in the region, regulatory hurdles are often the bigger problem for the industry.
 Kathleen Ng, managing director of the center, said private equity firms in Asia would have to seek more deals in the hundreds of millions, rather than billions, of dollars and be satisfied with minority positions in companies instead of buyouts.
 In the meantime, there is a lot more money chasing deals in the region. Ms. Ng estimated that the current value of unallocated funds in Asia was $35.7 billion at the end of July, with the amount set to grow sharply.
 ''It's a testing time,'' she said. ''But private equity investors are very innovative. They find a way to devise a deal.''
 Although the recent market problems have added to the complications, Ms. Ng said there was intense demand from investors in private equity funds, like pension funds and insurance companies, that have long-term investment horizons.
 Market volatility may also foster more deals. If the recent market problems start to affect the broad economy, analysts and industry participants said, there could be a return to some of the bargain-hunting that benefited private equity firms in the early part of the decade.
 ''Periods of volatility are normal in Asia,'' said Dan Carroll, a senior partner with TPG in Hong Kong. ''And it is in times of volatility that we have done our better deals.''
 He said TPG's deal pipeline remained ''very active,'' and he expressed confidence that the firm would be to able fully allocate its latest fund-raising.
 A lot of the new deals are likely to be in China, while Australia could slip, which would be a significant change.
 According to figures released by Thomson Financial last month, Australia topped the region, excluding Japan, for private equity deals in the first half of the year, with $12.3 billion in deal value. China ranked sixth, with deals worth $678.7 million completed.
 ''Australia had an outsized year in 2006, going into 2007 well above the historical mean, and that is correcting a bit,'' Mr. Carroll said. ''China and Japan will be increasingly active markets in the next couple of years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (93%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: TPG CAPITAL LP (90%); KKR & CO LP (82%); CVC CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (56%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) ASIA (97%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



83 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; WORLD TRACK AND FIELD CHAMPIONSHIPS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Highlights Aplenty, If Largely Unseen

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

DATELINE: OSAKA, Japan, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
The cheering, at least what there was of it, has stopped. The tens of thousands of Osakans who attended the track and field world championships at Nagai Stadium are back to their regular lives.
 The world championships failed to take over their city. The fact that this meet did not have a world record may be good news in light of the sport's long-running problems with doping. The fact that this meet did not have a genuine buzz is probably more problematic.
 The world's second-most important track and field event could not fill a stadium with only 36,000 available seats in an affluent area of nearly nine million people that has excellent public transportation. It seems that the sponsors are more excited than the public about athletics in Asia, although that could change at next year's Beijing Olympics, when the Chinese star Liu Xiang runs in the 110-meter hurdles. 
 But before the world and Liu leap ahead to 2008, a quick look back at Osaka.
 BEST SINGLE Some medalists make a habit of hogging the glory. But Blanka Vlasic of Croatia, the daughter of a decathlete, made the most of her one event, winning a particularly high-level edition of the women's high jump. Vlasic is agile for someone who stands 6 feet 2 inches, and she was also tough enough mentally to clear 6-8 * on her third and final attempt.
 BEST DOUBLE Taking into account the heat and the humidity, the nod goes to Kenya, which finally managed to sweep the marathon gold medals. Even with 7 a.m. starts, these were uncommonly brutal tests of endurance and character. While many others failed to finish, Luke Kibet and Catherine Ndereba earned the highest marks.
 BEST DOUBLE THAT WASN'T QUITE A DOUBLE The Dutch extrovert Rutger Smith threw himself back to an era when specialization was not an obligation by finishing fourth in the shot put, then winning a bronze medal in the discus, which he practices, for now, only once a week.
 BEST TRIPLE The Americans Tyson Gay and Allyson Felix joined an exclusive club in Osaka by winning three gold medals, but Gay won two of his three in individual events. He demoralized the world-record holder Asafa Powell in the 100 without blinking (literally or figuratively) and then set the only men's meet record, dominating the 200 in 19.76 seconds. His intense third leg also set up the Americans for gold in the 4x100 relay. 
 BEST NEWCOMER Donald Thomas, who took up the high jump less than two years ago on a dare from a friend, ended up winning the world championship for the Bahamas. If he can clear 7-8 1/2 with rudimentary technique, what happens when he really figures out what to do with his arms and legs?
 BEST LATECOMER David Payne was sleeping at home in Hampton, Va., having failed to qualify for the American team. Then the telephone rang. It was his agent, Mark Block, calling at 5:30 a.m. to inform him that one of the three American 110 hurdlers, Dominique Arnold, was out with an injury. Would Payne come at the last minute? The groggy answer was yes. Payne boarded a flight later that afternoon and, after 13 hours in economy class, reached Osaka on Tuesday night. On Wednesday, he won his first-round heat. On Thursday, he qualified for the final, and on Friday he won a most unexpected bronze.
 BEST RACE There are nominees aplenty, including a women's 100 that required a photo finish. But the one best suited for downloading was the men's 110 hurdles. Liu started in Lane 9 after failing to win his semifinal, but he won his first world championship anyway, coming from behind with supreme confidence and skill to pass Terrence Trammell, twisting to his left to enjoy the view as he crossed the finish line in under 13 seconds.
 WORST RACE The men's 800 was the slowest in a major meet in 51 years, but the women's 5,000 wins this prize, not for what it was but for what it could have been. Meseret Defar, the world-record holder, did not shake free of the field until the final lap. But it was impossible to watch that last lap without thinking of her Ethiopian rival Tirunesh Dibaba, who withdrew with a stomach ailment after winning the 10,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (91%); RUNNING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%); HUNAN, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); KENYA (79%); CROATIA (79%); BAHAMAS (78%); CHINA (76%); ASIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



84 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: Little-Noticed 9/11 Lawsuits Will Get Their Day in Court

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
In the days after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, while much of the country was still stunned and grieving, Michelle Cottom was being forced to deal with an ugly bottom line. How much was her child's life worth? 
 The Cottoms -- and the families of 41 other victims -- may soon get an answer as the little-noticed lawsuits they have brought against the airlines, security companies and other parties move toward a trial in a Manhattan courtroom. 
 Mrs. Cottom's 11-year-old daughter, Asia, a passenger on American Airlines Flight 77, died when hijackers crashed the plane into the Pentagon. She and her husband, Clifton, soon had to choose between taking what they perceived as a minimal award from a federal fund set up to compensate victims or calling one of the many lawyers who had sent what Mrs. Cottom calls ''advertising packages'' and filing a lawsuit.
 One of those lawyers, Mary Schiavo, a former inspector general for the federal Department of Transportation, visited her at home and convinced Mrs. Cottom that her instincts were right, that Asia deserved much more than what the government would offer. 
 ''She came to me and convinced me that she could bring justice to the situation, and I trusted what she said,'' Mrs. Cottom recalled. When government compensation for deaths was eventually made, the average was $2 million, and the range was $250,000 to $7.1 million.
 Now, in a concrete sign of movement in the families' cases, the judge, Alvin K. Hellerstein of Federal District Court in Manhattan, has set a trial date of Sept. 24 -- 2,205 days since 19 hijackers brought four planes out of the sky into the twin towers, the Pentagon and a field in Pennsylvania. 
 By the plaintiffs' own accounts, they have sued with mixed motives, which sometimes even they cannot untangle. They present themselves as heroes fighting for the truth and as families honoring the memory of their loved ones, but they are not apologetic about seeking money. They seem to be an angry, stubborn, sorrowful and stalwart group, who have been little known by most Americans, or perhaps forgotten with the passage of time. 
 Of the original 95 lawsuits on behalf of 96 victims, 53 cases have been settled, one has been dismissed and 41 cases remain to be resolved, according to court papers. Those 41 cases represent 42 victims, including 10 who were injured. But settlement talks continue, and more cases could be settled before the trials begin.
 The plaintiffs are people like Mike Low, whose 28-year-old daughter, Sara, was a flight attendant on American Airlines Flight 11, the first plane to crash into the World Trade Center. For Mr. Low, it is strange for the airlines to deny that they could have anticipated the attacks, because, he says, his daughter was offered antiterrorist insurance as one of her fringe benefits, and took it.
 Or John E. Keating, who has only a plastic bank card, retrieved from the Fresh Kills landfill, where debris from the twin towers site was being sifted, to show for the mortal remains of his 72-year-old mother, Barbara, who was also on board Flight 11.
 ''You become obsessed by it,'' said Mr. Keating, a software developer who lives in Toronto. ''The last 40 minutes of her life, I guess that story needs to be told, or acknowledged. In my mind I see her in a seat at the back of the plane, praying for strength because her faith was a big part of her life, and if she was comforting someone who needed comforting, I can certainly see that.''
 In a reversal of the usual legal procedure, Judge Hellerstein has ordered six trials for damages to take place before any trial for liability, in the hope, he said, that both sides may use those figures as a road map toward settlement. He set dates for two of those damages trials, Sept. 24 and Oct. 15. 
 His decision is a mixed victory for the plaintiffs, since it means that the trials, though likely to be extremely emotional, will lack many of the findings of accountability that the families say they so dearly want. The trials will focus instead on the victims' pain and suffering and on the grief of their surviving families.
 ''It will be a somewhat sterile type of environment to try these cases in,'' said Keith S. Franz, of Azrael, Gann & Franz, which is handling five of the remaining cases.
 Still, the grief of the survivors is powerful. Mr. Low, the self-made owner of a small limestone mining company in Batesville, Ark., sometimes wears a silver and lapis lazuli ring he gave to his daughter that was found in the wreckage. 
 While waiting for his case to get to court, he has learned from F.B.I. records that his daughter gave her childhood home phone number to another flight attendant to make a hasty call to a friend to report the hijacking. 
 Sara Low had just moved to a new apartment, and her father imagines that in the stress of the hijacking, she gave the flight attendant, Amy Sweeney, the only number she could remember, one that reached back to her childhood in Arkansas.
 The plaintiffs point to box-cutters carried by the hijackers as evidence of lapses in airport security. To further support their contention that the airlines could have been more vigilant, they cite, in their master liability complaint, a 1999 Federal Aviation Administration report saying Osama bin Laden had ''implied'' that he could use a shoulder-fired missile to shoot down a military passenger aircraft. 
 Lawyers for the defendants in the coming damages trials -- United and American Airlines; airport security companies; Boeing, the aircraft manufacturer; and others -- say the lawsuits are misguided, that the aviation industry played by the government rules at the time, and that the terrorists knew what they could get away with. 
 ''We strongly believe the aviation defendants are not to be blamed for terrorist attacks on the country,'' Joseph F. Wayland, a lawyer at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, said for the defense group as whole.
 Still, they recognize this is not an ordinary product liability case, filled with obscure technical details, but one of the most studied episodes in history, recorded in the voluminous and exhaustive 9/11 Commission report, news media accounts and even the Central Intelligence Agency's report released last month, detailing the agency's missteps before the attacks.
 Those reports, very much in the public domain, will be the elephant in the room, as Donald A. Migliori, a lawyer with Motley Rice, said. ''If you put every actor who in part or in whole allowed the events of 9/11 to happen in this courtroom, and take each of their respective shares of responsibility and aggregate it, you have 100 percent liability,'' he said. ''What is the number that you come up with?''
 The defendants say they trust that the judge will keep those ghosts out of the courtroom.
 Most of the families are represented by Motley Rice, an aggressive law firm based in South Carolina. Motley Rice, known for its tobacco, lead paint and asbestos litigation, initially represented 53 cases, and still has 30 after settlements.
 Ms. Schiavo, who is a frequent television commentator on aviation disasters and terrorism, now works for Motley Rice and brought 44 of the 9/11 cases with her. In addition, Motley Rice had signed up nine on its own. 
 The plaintiffs acknowledge that the biggest difference between the two sides is over the value of pain and suffering. Economic losses are calculated by a mathematical model, and the margin for dispute is relatively small. 
 If there is anything that characterizes many of the remaining holdouts in the lawsuits, their lawyers acknowledge, it is that they tend to be people who would not have received high awards from the federal government's September 11th Victim Compensation Fund -- children, retirees, single people without dependents.
 Pain and suffering is another matter, more ineffable. The Sept. 11th fund awarded a flat rate of $250,000 for pain and suffering for each person who died in the attacks, and another $100,000 each to surviving spouses and children. 
 Congress created the Victim Compensation Fund within days of the attacks, to protect the airlines from financial ruin by discouraging lawsuits. People who filed by Dec. 22, 2003, had to relinquish their right to sue.
 The fund paid $6 billion to survivors of 2,880 of those killed in the attacks, representing 97 percent of the families of the dead, according to its final report. 
 But in the mathematical model of the fund, despite the discretion exercised by its special master, Kenneth R. Feinberg, the economic losses of a child like Asia Cottom, whose dream of being a doctor was harshly interrupted before anyone could know whether she would realize it, could not compare with those of a stockbroker leaving behind a spouse and children.
 Mrs. Cottom, a branch chief for civil rights at the Department of Agriculture, and her husband, on the staff at Choice Academy, an alternative school in Washington, had taken out life insurance on their daughter, because they thought it was the responsible thing to do. The compensation fund deducted death benefits like life insurance from any award. 
 The Cottoms' lawyers would not say how much Asia might have received from the fund. Mrs. Cottom said she believed they would have received little more than the minimum $250,000 -- an amount she found ''insulting.'' 
 She lost a daughter, she said, who had her first menstrual period just before the fatal flight, a school trip to Los Angeles. ''I took her to Wal-Mart to buy sanitary napkins,'' Mrs. Cottom said. ''So she was growing up one day and the next day she's gone.''
 Her decision to reject the fund was not hard, she said. ''To me, it just smelled of dishonesty. How do you justify, O.K., an 11-year-old is worth $2, but because you're the pilot of that plane, that's worth $2 million?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clifton and Michelle Cottom's daughter, Asia, 11, died in the crash of American Airlines Flight 77 at the Pentagon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 Mike Low, the owner of an Arkansas mining operation, lost his daughter, Sara, below, on 9/11.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN B. THORNTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); FAMILY (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); LAWYERS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



85 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: That Handbag Comes With Its Own Moral Dilemma

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Terror's Purse Strings'' (Op-Ed, Aug. 30), Dana Thomas says the counterfeit handbags for sale here may have been made by child laborers in China. 
 I live in Westport, Conn., where ownership of the correct handbag is essential, and I'm lucky enough to be able to afford it. But each season, as I walk the Marc Jacobs or Prada to the register, I look at the price tag, become queasy and just say no. 
 I am an admitted hypocrite who goes in for designer furniture and status automobiles. These luxury items are used for at least several years, so I somehow rationalize their purchase. The designer bag is used for one season and then its panache is no more. 
 Perhaps Ms. Thomas can help more directly by creating a new movement -- call it the ''re-use last year's handbag movement.'' For one season, we don't buy a bag. (Hey, we're breadwinners, give birth and raise children -- so we can handle the self-deprivation. )
 Then we donate the price of a new bag ($800 to $4,500) to a charitable group that focuses on Chinese child laborers. That may do a lot more good than running out to buy original Gucci bags. Elana Bloom 
 Westport, Conn., Aug. 30, 2007
 To the Editor:
 As the quality of luxury goods diminishes, how much difference is there between the fakes and the real things? No wonder shoppers willingly admit to buying fakes.
 I certainly don't want to support terrorists, but as designers try to make more and more money by cutting costs the prices border on extortion -- not that anyone ''needs'' a designer label.
 Cathy LaScola 
 Nutley, N.J., Aug. 30, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Dana Thomas says ''counterfeiting rackets are run by crime syndicates that also deal in narcotics, weapons, child prostitution, human trafficking and terrorism.'' 
 But as the Wal-Mart phenomenon has illustrated, everyone likes a bargain and for the most part is disinterested in the source of production. 
 With the profits of the big designers bordering on the usurious, and constant media images of glamorous women toting expensive designer bags, the idea of owning a few is, of course, rather seductive. Yet women might be persuaded not to buy the counterfeit bags if the real ones were not so ridiculously expensive.
 It comes down to a purely economic choice: $20 for a rip-off or hundreds for the real thing? Penelope Andrews 
 Valparaiso, Ind., Aug. 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD LABOR (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); TERRORISM (78%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); CHARITIES (67%); EXTORTION (63%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SEX TRAFFICKING (50%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



86 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: A Thirst for Milk Bred by New Wealth Sends Prices Soaring

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: HAMILTON, New Zealand 

 BODY:
After years of saving, Geoff Irwin finally scraped up enough money to buy his parents' dairy farm near here in 2003. Now his parents have retired to a house nearby and Mr. Irwin runs the farm with its 300 cows. 
 It is hard work, 12 hours a day, but already it looks as though it has paid off: just four years later, the farm is worth more than twice what Mr. Irwin paid for it. Prices for dairy farms in New Zealand are soaring along with dairy incomes, thanks to a global milk boom. 
 ''It feels really good,'' said Mr. Irwin, 45. ''It feels like we're going to be earning and be rewarded the way we should.''
 Driven by a combination of climate change, trade policies and competition for cattle feed from biofuel producers, global milk prices have doubled over the last two years. In parts of the United States, milk is more expensive than gasoline. There are reports of cows being stolen from Wisconsin dairy farms.
 ''There's a world shortage of milk,'' said Philip Goode, manager of international policy at Dairy Australia in Canberra.
 But the biggest force driving up milk prices is the same one that has driven up prices for conventional commodities like iron ore and copper: a roaring global economy. Rising incomes in emerging economies from China and India to Latin America and the Middle East are lifting millions of people out of poverty and into the middle class. 
 It turns out that, along with zippy cars and flat-panel TVs, milk is the mark of new money, a significant source of protein that factors into much of any affluent person's diet. Milk goes into infant formulas, chocolate, ice cream and cheese. Most baked goods contain butter, and coffee chains like Starbucks sell more milk than coffee.
 Just meeting that demand, said Alex Duncan, an economist at Fonterra, the dominant dairy cooperative in New Zealand and one of the world's largest dairy-exporting companies, will require the addition each year of the equivalent of New Zealand's entire annual milk output.
 That is a lot of milk. New Zealand is one of the world's largest milk producers, according to IFCN Dairy Research Center in Germany, but it is the largest exporter of dairy products. Some dairy economists doubt that the world's cows are up to the task and say there is a possibility that the shortage of milk now being seen in parts of the world will spread.
 Others say there are plenty of places where more milk can be produced if the price is right. One thing they agree on is that milk prices are likely to stay high and rise even higher. 
 ''No one forecast this rapid shortage of milk,'' said Torsten Hemme, head of the IFCN center. 
 This is not good if you are in the market for milk. Pizza parlors and ice cream vendors are raising their prices. Starbucks has raised the price of its drinks. Milk is also weighing on profits at Cadbury Schweppes and at Kraft Foods' cheese unit. 
 What is unusual, and somewhat confusing, about the milk boom compared with other booming commodities is that milk is not like oil: You cannot stick it in barrels and stockpile it. It goes sour. Even in powder form, the most commoditized version, milk has a shelf life. As a result, only about 7 percent of all the milk produced globally is traded across borders. The rest is consumed in domestic markets, which are protected by geography and just as often by tariffs or subsidies. 
 Big buyers like chocolate makers and grocery stores buy their milk under long-term contracts and so can smooth out sudden spikes or dips in prices. Thus, the full effect of the global shortage varies from country to country, and not all consumers are yet suffering the full impact. 
 But because of the local nature of the market, there is little spare capacity. In the past, the world could always count on the United States and Europe to fill shortages by exporting some of their subsidized stockpiles of cheese, butter and milk powder. But the United States has drawn down its butter mountain and other stockpiles; the same is true of the European Union, which started cutting dairy subsidies in 1993 and will finish this year. Rising dairy demand in the United States and among the European Union's new members, moreover, is draining supplies. As a result, Mr. Hemme said, ''This storage capacity is empty now.''
 At the same time, rising demand for biofuels is pushing up the price of corn and other grains, which is what farmers in the United States, Europe, Canada and Japan feed their cows instead of grass. Rising feed costs help to push milk prices even higher.
 Production is growing in emerging markets like China, but demand there is growing even faster. The average person in China now consumes more than six gallons of milk a year, up from more than two gallons in 2000, according to IFCN. So while China is now one of the world's top milk producers, it is also the world's largest milk importer.
 Experts say the growing demand for milk will have to be met in countries like China and Argentina as higher prices lead to greater investment in lifting milk yields. 
 Some see the United States as another main source of milk supplies. International prices have now risen above the subsidized price of milk there, making it profitable for American dairies to export their milk. ''There's a real opportunity for the U.S. to export without government support or subsidies,'' Mr. Goode said.
 Mr. Hemme at IFCN estimates that both the American Midwest and Europe could multiply their milk production. But it would take one or two years and require using more costly corn and grain. So even if milk supplies keep up with demand, the price will stay high. 
 ''Even when prices start easing back, we don't expect them to go back to where they were,'' said Hayley Moynihan, a dairy analyst at Rabobank in New Zealand. ''The cost of production and ongoing demand is going to see prices eventually settle at higher levels than they did in the past.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Geoff Irwin at his dairy farm in New Zealand, worth double what it cost him in 2003.With milk prices high, ''it feels like we're going to be earning and be rewarded the way we should,'' he said.
 Cows in the milking shed of a farm in New Zealand. In many of the world's emerging economies, milk is the mark of new money, a significant source of protein in an affluent person's diet.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY VICTORIA BIRKINSHAW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY INDUSTRY (91%); MILK (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); DAIRY FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CHEESE (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); COFFEE & TEA (76%); INFANT FORMULA (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (70%); BIOFUELS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: FONTERRA CO-OPERATIVE GROUP LTD (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424430 DAIRY PRODUCT (EXCEPT DRIED OR CANNED) MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (55%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (75%) NEW ZEALAND (96%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (75%); LATIN AMERICA (71%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



87 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: What You Don't Know Can Hurt You

 BODY:
The recent turmoil in the markets highlights the damaging effects of uncertainty stemming from the lack of reliable information from opaque market actors like hedge funds and private equity firms and from off-balance-sheet transactions at banks. Obviously, the system cannot thrive without good and timely information. 
 With that in mind, lawmakers returning to Washington this week should make it a top priority to restore full funding for gathering vital economic and business data by the Census Bureau. Unless the funds are restored, Congress will be adding to the uncertainty that has proved so destabilizing. 
 Just before the break, the House of Representatives passed a bill that would cut $23.6 million from the bureau's 2008 budget for compiling the nation's most important economic statistics. A cut of that size would result in the largest loss of source data since the government started keeping the statistics during the Great Depression, impairing the accuracy of figures on economic growth, consumer spending, corporate profits, labor productivity, inflation and other benchmark indicators. 
 The data is critical to Federal Reserve policy, financial markets, official budget estimates at every level of government and everyday business decisions. 
 The House also took a nearly $10 million whack out of the bureau's economic census, which includes a periodic survey of business owners -- the main source of information on business owners' gender, race, age, education, military service history and other characteristics. Without the data, federal and state agencies will not be able to assess their progress, or lack thereof, in promoting small business ownership and minority-owned enterprises. That would amount to losing track of the entrepreneurial activity that is central to economic vitality.
 The misguided cuts were muscled into the House's final spending bill in a fashion unworthy of serious legislators. Many lawmakers had fought, successfully, for additional funding for the decennial census and another vital survey by the bureau, both of which had been short-shrifted in President Bush's proposed budget for 2008. Then, at the last minute, the bolstered funding was preserved while cuts were made to the Census's economics programs, in order to fund totally unrelated programs in the Justice Department. That's not careful prioritizing. It's foolishness. 
 The cuts can be -- and clearly should be -- reversed when the House and Senate meet this fall to reconcile the final bill to fund the Census Bureau.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENSUS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (74%); STATISTICS (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



88 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Abandon Stereotypes, Muslims in America Say

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: ROSEMONT, Ill., Sept 3 

 BODY:
It is time for the United States to stop treating every American Muslim as somehow suspect, leaders of the faith said at their largest annual convention, which ended here on Monday. 
 Six years after the Sept. 11 attacks, Americans should distinguish between mainstream Muslims and the radical fringe, the leaders said. 
 ''Muslim Americans feel an increasing level of tension and scrutiny in contemporary society,'' said Ingrid Mattson, president of the Islamic Society of North America, the largest Muslim organization in the United States and the convention organizer. 
 The image problems were among the topics most discussed by many of the 30,000 attendees. A fresh example cited was an open letter from two Republican House members, Peter Hoekstra of Michigan and Sue Myrick of North Carolina, that attacked the Justice Department for sending envoys to the convention because, the lawmakers said, the Islamic Society of North America was a group of ''radical jihadists.''
 The lone Muslim in Congress, Representative Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota, the keynote speaker here, dismissed the letter as ill informed and typical of bigoted attacks that other minorities have suffered. 
 Leaders of American Muslim organizations attribute the growing intolerance to three main factors: global terrorist attacks in the name of Islam, disappointing reports from the Iraq war and the agenda of some supporters of Israel who try taint Islam to undermine the Palestinians.
 American Muslims say they expect the attacks to worsen in the presidential election and candidates to criticize Islam in an effort to prove that they are tough on terrorism. 
 Zaid Shakir, an African-American imam with rock star status among young Muslims, described how on a recent road trip from Michigan to Washington he heard comments on talk radio from people who were ''making stuff up about Islam.'' 
 Among the most egregious, he said, was from a person in Kentucky who denounced the traditional short wood stick some Muslims use to clean their teeth, saying, ''They are really sharpening up their teeth because they are planning to eat you, yes they are.'' 
 Representatives of at least eight federal departments and agencies attended the convention, their booths sandwiched among hundreds of others from bookstores, travel agencies, perfumeries, clothing designers and real estate developers. 
 Mark S. Ward, who runs programs in Asia and the Middle East for the Agency for International Development, said Washington had to compete for influence abroad with militant groups that are expert at delivering humanitarian services. 
 Mr. Ward said he hoped more American Muslim organizations would apply to help distribute overseas aid. 
 A few people approached the Federal Bureau of Investigation booth to voice dismay at its presence, said a recruiter, David Valle, but most expressed pleasant surprise.
 ''A lot of folks think we want to hire them to spy on their community, spy on their families,'' he said. ''We want to dispel any myths they might have about the F.B.I.''
 The Justice Department responded to Mr. Hoekstra and Ms. Myrick's letter by noting that broad community contact in areas like voting rights was an important part of its mission. 
 That theme was echoed by Daniel W. Sutherland, chief officer for civil rights and liberties at the Homeland Security Department. Mr. Sutherland told a luncheon audience that the government needed to dispel prejudice and misconceptions to steer the public discussion about fighting terrorism to ''a higher level.'' 
 Sometimes frustration with the government boiled over. At a seminar on charitable giving, Ihsan Haque of Akron, Ohio, asked a Treasury Department representative, Michael Rosen, how to avoid being prosecuted for donating to Muslim charities. When Mr. Rosen said the government did not have the resources to check the million or so charities in the United States, Mr. Haque shouted, ''And I do?'' 
 Muslim leaders described the government relationship toward Muslim organizations as contradictory. The government seeks to foster greater civic engagement, because a lack of engagement is widely considered a big cause of Muslim extremism in Europe. A Department of Homeland Security official moderated a panel on aiding engagement. 
 Muslim groups are often treated as suspect, speakers said. In a trial that started in July in Dallas, federal prosecutors named the Islamic Society of North America as part of an effort to raise money for groups the government considers terrorists, but did not charge it with wrongdoing. 
 The Justice Department has to decide on its law enforcement side what it considers a target, said Khurrum Wahid, a prominent Muslim defense lawyer. 
 ''Are they going to continue to say that the higher degree of religiosity you have the higher likelihood that you are a threat, because that's the message they've sent,'' Mr. Wahid said.
 Rabbi Eric H. Yoffie, president of the Union for Reform Judaism, denounced by name Christian fundamentalists like Pat Robertson and Franklin Graham, as well as Dennis Prager, a well-known radio host who is Jewish. 
 ''The time has come to stand up to the opportunists, the media figures, the religious leaders and politicians who demonize Muslims and bash Islam, exploiting the fears of their fellow citizens for their own purposes,'' Rabbi Yoffie told the opening session. 
 The Koran tells Muslims to abstain from drinking alcohol and to lower their gaze in modesty when meeting a member of the opposite sex, but some college-age Muslim men and women at the convention stayed up late into the night drinking, talking and getting to know one another. 
 ''If you keep your gaze lowered all the time, you might just walk into a wall,'' said Hazem Talha, a high school senior from Atlanta who said he was here for the religious lectures. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A vendor who goes by the name Hijabman at the convention and making light of some perceptions of Muslims.
 Ann Marie Dentzer, center, and Stephanie Stoltzfus, both with the Department of Homeland Security, talking to a Muslim woman at the Islamic Society of North America convention. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE TABACCA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); POP & ROCK (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); ORAL HYGIENE (61%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: PETER HOEKSTRA (54%); SUE WILKINS MYRICK (54%); KEITH ELLISON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



89 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Knowing What You Stand For

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
Do you have a ''leadership brand''?
 By leadership brand, Dave Ulrich, a professor at the University of Michigan, and Norm Smallwood of the RBL Group, an education and consulting firm he co-founded with Mr. Ulrich, mean a shared identity among your organization's leaders that differentiates what they can do from your rival's leaders.
 ''In other words, a leadership brand occurs when leaders' knowledge, skills and values focus employee behavior on the factors that target the issues that customers care about,'' they write in their new book, ''Leadership Brand'' (Harvard Business School Press, 2007). 
 The leadership brand is ''an extension of an organization brand or identity because it shows up in the behaviors and results.''
 As examples, they point to leaders at Wal-Mart, a company known for everyday low prices, who focus on managing costs and getting things done on time. At Lexus, the company's motto is ''the relentless pursuit of perfection,'' and, therefore, its leaders are expert on lean manufacturing and constantly improving quality.
 The authors lay out a straightforward six-step process of creating a leadership brand: state specifically what your leadership brand is; make sure the leadership brand is connected to your corporate strategy; make sure leaders are embodying the leadership brand; invest in developing it further; measure how well you are doing; and ensure all your stakeholders know what your brand is.
 That's fine. But what is important is the idea that leaders need to model the behavior they want their organizations to stand for.
 GET IT DONE No matter what your leadership brand, the most important thing you can do is accomplish your objectives.
 In Entrepreneur magazine, the venture capitalist Guy Kawasaki offers some ideas about how to execute them, including these:
 Establish the right goals. How do you know they are the right ones? They are achievable, measurable and relevant to your achieving success. 
 Make someone responsible. ''If you ask employees who is responsible for a goal and no one can answer you in 10 seconds, there's not enough accountability.''
 Make it real. ''Postpone, or at least de-emphasize touchy feely goals like 'create a great work environment.' '' Companies, he says, ''that execute on measurable goals are happy.''
 Create something worth executing. ''If you and your team are having a hard time executing, maybe you're working on the wrong thing.''
 SCHUMPETER LIVES Some 57 years after his death, the economist Joseph A. Schumpeter, who has been called the patron saint of entrepreneurship, is subjected to a reassessment in both Inc. and the Harvard Business Review.
 Writing in Inc., the Schumpeter biographer Thomas K. McCraw, a Pulitzer-Prize winning historian, says he remains ''one of the most astute business thinkers who ever lived'' and his core belief that the entrepreneur is ''the source of all economic progress'' seems more prescient than ever as innovation moves through our economy an unprecedented pace.''
 Mr. Schumpeter was best known for his phrase ''creative destruction,'' his term to describe the fact that the same innovation that creates opportunity for some (the invention of the automobile) harms others (buggy makers.)
 Writing in The Harvard Business Review, Glenn Hubbard, the dean of Columbia Business School, says that typically, creative destruction is seen ''as a kind of unavoidable pain.'' It is considered to be ''like a forest fire that sweeps out old underbrush and makes room for hardier new growth.'' 
 But citing work by his colleague Edmund Phelps, Mr. Hubbard says a better way to view it is that entrepreneurship leads to the ''free and uncoordinated contest of ideas that generate growth.'' The result, he says, does not cause as much economic turbulence as you might think.
 LAST CALL Of course an article entitled ''the best advice of all time,'' which purports to give the 20 rules for success ''from some of the smartest investors (and other people who have ever lived) is ridiculously subjective.
 Still, what is striking in the piece by Carla Fried is how applicable much of it is to entrepreneurs. 
 For example, there is Freidrich von Schiller's warning that ''he that is overcautious will accomplish little''; Eleanor Roosevelt's adage, ''It takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan;'' and Pablo Picasso's comment, ''Only put off until tomorrow what you are willing to die having left undone.''
 And then there is the quote that summarizes the value of all the advice (or lack thereof.) It is from the writer Publilus Syrus in 42 B.C.: ''Many receive advice, few profit by it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); HISTORY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (61%); LEAN MFG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



90 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: A New Push To Regulate Power Costs

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
More than a decade after the drive began to convert electricity from a regulated industry into a competitive one, many states are rolling back their initiatives or returning money to individuals and businesses.
 A $1 billion rebate for Illinois residents and businesses, for example, was signed into law last week. In Ohio, politicians, utilities, their customers and consumer groups are negotiating how to end competitive electricity pricing, while Virginia has repealed its law. 
 Of the 25 states, and the District of Columbia, that had adopted competition, only one, California, is even talking about expanding market pricing.
 The main reason behind the effort to return to a more regulated market is price. Recent Energy Department data shows that the cost of power in states that embraced competition has risen faster than in states that had retained traditional rate regulation. 
 One prominent critic of competitive pricing -- Marilyn Showalter, a former Washington state utility regulator who has become an advocate of publicly owned power systems -- has calculated that, in the year ending May 31, customers in competitive states paid an extra $48 billion for their power, compared with what they would have paid under rates in regulated states. 
 The combination of higher and faster-rising prices has outraged individual consumers and small businesses and prompted big electric customers to fight back on political, regulatory and legal fronts. 
 ''It is fair to say that in the states that did restructure, we are on the defensive,'' said John Shelk, president of the Electric Power Supply Association, which represents owners of competitive power plants. 
 Since the early 1990s, half the states adopted laws, some of them drafted by Enron, to induce some form of competition. 
 Most of these laws, however, concerned only wholesale markets, and thus artificially induced competition in only part of the industry. The system for metering, transmitting or distributing power was not part of the changes.
 After Gov. Rod Blagojevich of Illinois signed a bill into law last week to provide $1 billion of rate relief for electricity customers, he hinted that more aid may be coming. He also reiterated his opposition to the particular kind of auction that Illinois uses for selling electricity, saying it was unfair to everyone except utilities and big industrial customers.
 Virginia imposed new terms on the state's corporate-owned utilities, setting price controls by guaranteeing them a profit margin equal to the average profit margins of utilities in four neighboring states. 
 Mr. Shelk, of the trade association representing competitive power plants, called the provision ''simply outrageous'' and said it removed incentives for management to improve efficiency. 
 Connecticut has made changes in its law, too, and many other states are debating revisions to their laws.
 The California legislature suspended that state's electric competition laws after soaring prices and rolling blackouts caused a backlash in 2001. The president of the California Public Utility Commission has proposed moving toward competition again, but such a policy shift might require legislative action.
 Thomas H. Rawls of the Alliance for Retail Choice, a pro-competition group that represents the marketing arms of electric-generating companies, said that the trend back toward traditional rate regulation shows ''that there is magical thinking, some idea that a regulator can do magic, which is to reduce prices below what the price is in reality.''
 ''How can a regulator stop prices from going up when commodity prices, fuel prices, are rising?'' he asked.
 Many studies, paid for by competition advocates, have shown lower prices in deregulated states compared with regulated ones. However, a number of critiques by electricity economists show that the benefits were not the result of market forces, but of government-imposed freezes and caps on rates.
 Big industrial and commercial customers, the very forces that agitated for competition originally, are leading the return to traditional regulation. Then, and now, these big customers say they are being charged too much.
 Marc Yacker, a vice president of the Electricity Consumers Resource Council, which represents large industrial customers, said that while competition laws were enacted ''we did not get what we asked for, we got something very different.'' 
 ''We asked for competition, but we do not see competition in any wholesale market,'' he added.
 John Anderson, the resource council president, said his group prefers competition, but only if it creates true markets.
 ''A healthy dose of real competition would benefit all consumers,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''Unfortunately there are no examples in America right now of any real competition, and what is out there is absolutely terrible.''
 The Web site for Industrial Energy Users-Ohio has a countdown clock showing when the state will expand its competitive model, which the group fears will lead to higher prices. 
 ''The structure currently in place in Ohio assumed we would have a competitive market, but we don't,'' said Samuel C. Randazzo, general counsel for the energy users group. ''I don't think anybody disagrees with that conclusion, and we need to change the law to reflect that reality.''
 In many of the deregulated states, utilities were required to sell their power plants, though they were sometimes sold to sister companies under the same corporate umbrella. 
 The supposedly competitive markets did not involve transactions between equals. The utilities are required by law to supply whatever volume of power that customers demand. Independent generation companies do not have this legal obligation. During periods of peak demand the generation companies can charge prices far above the cost of production, in some cases 30 times the highest cost of production.
 The effect, experiments at Carnegie Mellon and George Mason Universities have shown, is to allow near monopoly prices even when there are competing electric-generating companies. 
 Official reports on pricing data from Texas and other states have declared some prices were artificially high at times, a characteristic of an oligopoly. This occurs when a small number of suppliers legally coordinate their actions, achieving prices close to those a monopoly could charge.
 Peter Van Doren of the Cato Institute, who edits its Regulation magazine, said that ''if you have repeat players in narrow enough markets'' and a grid that is not designed to move electricity efficiently, prices rise artificially. 
 Mr. Van Doren added, ''Just calling something a market does not make it a market.''
 The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, however, has declared that once it determines that a market for electricity is in place, the prices that result are inherently market prices. 
 In response to critics who said the agency was using circular logic, the commission recently announced an inquiry into whether that policy is sound.
 Mr. Van Doren questioned whether state lawmakers have the nuanced knowledge of the complex economics of electricity to establish laws creating viable markets. 
 Ms. Showalter, the former Washington state utility regulator, reached her conclusion about faster-rising rates for power in competitive markets by analyzing pricing data provided to the government's Energy Information Administration. 
 She examined prices in the 11 states and the District of Columbia that had gone the furthest in developing competitive markets. The federal data analyzed showed that power in those jurisdictions cost four cents a kilowatt-hour more than in regulated states, upfrom a two-cent price differential in 2000.
 Even taking into account that those jurisdictions began with more expensive power, she said, ''the comparative economic disadvantage to consumers in the deregulated states is enormous.''
 She calculated from government data that the total real cost to consumers in states with competition was $292 billion in higher electricity prices since 2000.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Market Rules: Deregulation has led to higher electricity prices in many states. (Sources: Energy Information Administration
 Power in the Public Interest)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); SALES REBATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); POWER FAILURES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (60%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: ROD BLAGOJEVICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



91 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: In Rail Link, Angelenos See a Door to Prosperity

BYLINE: By ANA FACIO CONTRERAS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
While Carlos Sanchez, a guitarist, waits in front of Mariachi Plaza in Boyle Heights to be picked up for his next job, he likes to look at a mural behind the plaza's kiosk on First Street.
 The mural, with colorful squares and spheres and scenes of local flavor, is reminiscent of the work of Mexican muralists like David Alfaro Siqueiros, but it is functional, too. It hides construction of a light-rail link that supporters in Boyle Heights and neighboring East Los Angeles say will change the face of their communities.
 Boyle Heights, part of the City of Los Angeles, and East Los Angeles, an unincorporated area of Los Angeles County, have long been home to thousands of Latinos. Both communities are cut off geographically from the city's beach districts and central business areas. 
 The light-rail train, set to begin running in 2009, will allow passengers to get to areas throughout the county. For many low-income residents, like Mr. Sanchez, 38, who do not own cars, the train will replace bicycles, unreliable buses and costly taxis. 
 ''I'll be using the train because it's going to be more convenient and a faster way to get to where you want to go,'' said Mr. Sanchez, who often car-pools to jobs with fellow musicians.
 The train, named after Edward R. Roybal, who in 1949 became the first Mexican-American elected to the Los Angeles City Council, will travel six miles from the Little Tokyo/Arts District in downtown through Boyle Heights and East Los Angeles. It will link to the Los Angeles subway system on the Gold Line, which runs south from Pasadena. A one-way trip now costs $1.25.
 Diana Tarango, who is on an advisory committee for the project, said the light-rail link had been in the works for 12 years.
 ''The Gold Line is a method of transportation that is very much needed in East Los Angeles and Boyle Heights because we're so transit dependent,'' she said.
 ''So many of our people do go out to work in houses in West L.A.,'' she said. ''In order to get there, why shouldn't they have the luxury of something comfortable, fast and running on schedule?''
 Community advocates see the train as a possible gateway to improving East Los Angeles and bringing economic vitality to the area, the oldest Mexican-American community in the county.
 Standing before Mariachi Plaza, so named because Mexican musicians gather there to wait for work, Jose Huizar, a Los Angeles city councilman, spoke of plans to transform the intersection at First and Boyle Streets, which is a jumble of construction sites and small businesses. 
 ''The potential here is tremendous,'' said Mr. Huizar, who grew up in Boyle Heights. ''My vision for this area is to have restaurants and a commercial center here. We're going to have a lot of people from downtown coming up here during lunchtime. They'll be on the subway in five minutes and get here and listen to mariachi music during the day and evening.''
 The area's county supervisor, Gloria Molina, said the light rail was part of what she called the renaissance of East Los Angeles.
 ''The first thing you do is upgrade the area,'' Ms. Molina said, ''and that will attract private investment.'' She said a Starbucks opened in East Los Angeles in March, and a Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf and a Quiznos sandwich shop opened three years ago.
 But there are no major stores like Target in the area. The storefronts that line major streets are small businesses like clothing stores and restaurants trying to keep a foothold as local shoppers head to stores and malls in nearby cities.
 The makeup of Boyle Heights and East Los Angeles has changed little since the late 1960s. Both areas are known for their large Latino populations and for Mexican-themed murals on convenience stores, schools and public buildings.
 But that has not always been the case, said George Sanchez, a history professor at the University of Southern California.
 At one time, Boyle Heights had significant Jewish and Japanese communities. Other ethnic groups, including Russians and Italians, also called the area home. 
 ''Boyle Heights from the 1920s to the 1950s was the most diverse suburb in both the city of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County,'' said Mr. Sanchez.
 Evidence of the region's past cultural diversity also extends to East Los Angeles, where Jewish, Serbian and Chinese cemeteries can be found. Proof that Chinese residents worked on the railroads in the 1800s was unearthed in the form of grave markers and bones during the construction of the light-rail project.
 ''The one thing you can say about East L.A. is that it's never had an identity crisis,'' said Oscar Gonzales, president of the East Los Angeles Residents Association. ''It's always known of its history and, more important, its future.''
 That future, with the rail line, may be gentrification, Ms. Molina and others say. ''It should change for the better,'' she said. ''You're going to see more businesses along the transit lines.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Musicians in Mariachi Plaza, in the Boyle Heights area of Los Angeles, with the light-rail construction site in the background. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Boyle Heights is isolated from downtown and beach areas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSIC (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (76%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); POOR POPULATION (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); CITIES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



92 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Indictment of a Sheriff Unsettles a Region's Calm

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: WATERLOO, N.Y., Aug. 30 

 BODY:
The tiny Finger Lakes towns that make up Seneca County are a scene of rolling pastures and lakeside wineries.
 Tourists from throughout the Northeast come for quiet vacations or perhaps to visit the National Women's Hall of Fame to learn how the suffrage movement gained momentum here, and this economically struggling county would like to promote those images.
 But lately, this county is making news around the state because of a scandal. On Tuesday, six members of the Seneca County Sheriff's Department -- including the sheriff himself, Leo T. Connolly -- were indicted on criminal charges ranging from theft to retaliatory investigations of people who criticized the department. 
 ''This does not help the image of Seneca County one bit,'' said Ford Knight, an employee in the tasting room of Lakeshore Winery in the town of Romulus. He fears the scandal will stereotype the area as a ''backwater hick county.''
 The indictments, encompassing the sheriff, an undersheriff and four deputies, have left the people here sharply divided. Some people, like Mr. Knight, believe the charges ultimately hurt business owners, who, he said, need competent professionals in charge and not ''bozos.''
 Others simply do not believe the allegations, especially those made against Sheriff Connolly, whom some described as a friendly and likable figure. ''We are in full support of him,'' said Allison Wright, a waitress at Abigail's Restaurant in Waterloo. ''I hope that when this all comes out it is not true.''
 Some people within the Sheriff's Department began talking of corruption in late 2005, prompting an internal investigation, said a special prosecutor in the case, R. Michael Tantillo, the district attorney for neighboring Ontario County. Several months later, in February 2006, a fire at a Sheriff's Department warehouse destroyed potential evidence in that investigation.
 The New York State Police took over. A grand jury was impaneled in January. Mr. Tantillo said ''a number of citizens'' ultimately came forward to testify. ''A lot of time and effort was spent on this,'' he said of the investigation. ''Something needed to be done.''
 On Tuesday, indictments were unsealed bringing seven criminal charges against Mr. Connolly, 65, a former agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation with a long history of public service. Two charges allege that he falsified records to indicate that deputies were at a training conference when they were on vacation in Florida. Three counts allege that he ordered retaliatory investigations against several citizens who criticized him on a local blog, www.fingerlakes1.com. He is also charged with rewarding official misconduct by offering to pay a deputy overtime for his efforts in that matter. Lastly, he is charged with lying to the grand jury.
 A former undersheriff, James R. Larson, 46, was charged with fourth-degree grand larceny and two counts of criminal possession of stolen property; he is accused of stealing a shotgun.
 Mr. Larson was also charged with official misconduct. Two such charges allege that he worked at side jobs when he was supposed to be on duty. Another count alleges that he had other staff members charge blank DVDs to a county credit card and drive to his house to pick up pornographic DVDs to copy them -- all when they were supposed to be on duty. 
 Mr. Larson is also charged with three counts of official misconduct for allegedly ordering an employee to search for information about a couple so he could find something to charge them with, in retaliation for their public criticism of him.
 Four deputies -- Michael J. Baroody, 28; Scott J. Buck, 34; Christopher R. Constable, 43; and Joshua M. Zona, 28; were all charged with petty larceny. They are accused of stealing property from the county, including two canoes, a snorkel, a filing cabinet and tires.
 The men pleaded not guilty and were released without bail. Mr. Connolly's lawyer, Robert Napier, said in a statement that his client had been indicted on the ''flimsiest of evidence'' and was actually the victim of ''a rogue and now disgraced undersheriff.''
 Mr. Baroody was fired last year, and Mr. Larson resigned last year as the investigation gained momentum. After the indictments were handed down, Seneca County placed Mr. Connolly, who was elected in 2003, on paid personal leave. The other deputies have been suspended with pay.
 Since the charges were revealed, the county has been grappling with how to proceed. Many business representatives, including those at the National Women's Hall of Fame, declined to comment. Some said they would not speak until the case was decided in the courts. Others, including the Rev. David Mihalyi, have called on the county's Board of Supervisors to demand Sheriff Connolly's resignation. 
 Alex LaQuitara, who works at a honey stand, said he wished the scandal would just go away. ''If they did it they need to be held responsible,'' he said. ''But this is degrading to us as a county.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: Charges are pending against six members of Seneca County's Sheriff's Department. Map shows area of Waterloo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (91%); SHERIFFS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GRAND JURY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); WINERIES (78%); LAKES (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); LARCENY & THEFT (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); OVERTIME (73%); CORRUPTION (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



93 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: For U.A.W., a Year of Uncertainty

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and MICHELINE MAYNARD; Mary M. Chapman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Detroit's traditional Labor Day parade took place on Woodward Avenue on Monday with the biggest questions in contract negotiations between the United Automobile Workers union and the Detroit automakers yet to be answered, less than two weeks before the pacts expire.
 One question is whether the U.A.W. will agree to the health care overhaul sought by the carmakers -- and its corollary is how much General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler will be willing to pay to make that happen.
 Contracts expire at midnight on Sept. 14, so talks are expected to pick up this week and accelerate toward the deadline. For now, however, the ball is in the U.A.W.'s court, according to people with direct knowledge of the negotiations. 
 The union, they said, must signal that it is willing to discuss the creation of a giant health care trust, which it would administer and which would provide benefits for active and retired workers. 
 Creation of the trust, a voluntary employees' beneficiary association, would take up to $100 billion in health care liabilities off the automakers' books. In return, the companies would contribute tens of millions of dollars to create the trust.
 Given the complexity of transferring responsibility for health care from company hands to the union's, some analysts predict it will be handled in stages. That would give the U.A.W. time to get used to administering the trust and would allow the struggling carmakers to pay for it over the next few years rather than all at once.
 The U.A.W. is being advised in the matter by a financial consultant, Lazard, which it has used in past negotiations on health care. It also is seeking help from consulting firms that specialize in health care matters, these people said.
 If the union rejects the idea of creating a trust to shift the burden for health care, the companies are likely to ask for significant concessions in other aspects of the contract, including wages, benefits and work rules, said these people, who asked not to be identified because the talks were supposed to be private.
 On Monday, the U.A.W.'s president, Ron Gettelfinger, marched with union members but did not address a rally held at the end of the parade. ''This is an opportunity to come together as working men and women,'' he said as he left the parade, according to The Associated Press. ''Negotiations are best done if they're handled at the bargaining table, not in the media.''
 Union workers are awaiting the outcome with little guidance from their leaders. Mark and Dawn Lemerand, who both work at Chrysler's truck plant in Warren, Mich., said they had spent as little money as possible in recent months, fearing that the new contract could lower wages, make health care more expensive and reduce job security.
 ''Life's been on hold. We're saving every dime we can,'' said Mrs. Lemerand, 38, who joined thousands of union workers at the parade. The crowd included not only automotive workers but also bus drivers and tuxedo-clad members of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, who were at an impasse in their own contract talks.
 Mrs. Lemerand and her colleagues at U.A.W. Local 140, who build the Dodge Ram and Dakota trucks, wore green T-shirts warning, ''Will strike if provoked.'' Late last month, a number of U.A.W. local chapters voted to authorize a strike if talks broke down, a common move aimed at giving union leaders more leverage. At her local, 98 percent voted in favor of authorizing a strike, she said.
 But industry experts say there is almost no possibility of a strike, as the car companies are in such fragile financial shape that a shutdown could force at least one of them into bankruptcy.
 ''It would be really remarkable if there was a strike. You'd need a complete collapse of negotiations,'' said David L. Gregory, a professor of labor law at St. John's University in Queens. ''A strike this time around could be absolutely lethal for the company being struck.''
 But more than a month after negotiations opened in mid-July, U.A.W. members say they have heard almost nothing from their negotiators. Unlike in past contract talks, the union does not have a toll-free number for chapter presidents to call for updates to pass along to members, nor have negotiators faxed or sent by e-mail any material to print in local newsletters or post on Web sites.
 ''It's been very quiet,'' said Jim Stoufer, president of Local 249, which represents workers at the Ford assembly plant in Kansas City, Mo. ''We seem to be a little more in the dark than normal, and I think it's because of the tough times.''
 The lack of news is not necessarily a sign that talks are at a standstill, though, said Professor Gregory: ''If there was a meltdown, we'd have heard about it.'' 
 Sean McAlinden, a labor economist with the nonprofit Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich., said he expected the carmakers to offer workers one-time ''signing bonuses'' in exchange for long-term wage and benefit reductions to increase the likelihood of ratification. 
 A similar bonus was offered at the bankrupt Delphi, the country's largest parts maker, whose workers approved cuts this year. 
 Officials from the carmakers declined to comment.
 Mr. Stoufer said he had heard rumors about wage cuts of 20 to 30 percent for U.A.W. members, who earn about $29 an hour on average. But Ralph Mayer, president of U.A.W. Local 898 in Ypsilanti, Mich., said, ''I'd put money on the fact that a huge pay cut is not going to happen.''
 The proposal to create a union-run health care trust seems particularly unsettling to many workers. A U.A.W. faction that opposes concessions has distributed fliers that equate the voluntary employees' beneficiary association proposal, known as V.E.B.A., with ''Vandalizing Employee Benefits Again.'' 
 Workers at G.M. and Ford agreed in 2005 to pay part of their medical costs. Workers at Chrysler did not make a similar deal, so analysts say the U.A.W. may have to grant the company's request for similar cuts in medical costs as part of any overall package.
 In past years, the U.A.W. has chosen one of the car companies as its negotiating target around Labor Day. The union's pattern-bargaining philosophy involved reaching a deal with the target company, then persuading the other two carmakers to accept similar terms.
 But in the 2003 talks, the union did not choose a target, instead conducting talks simultaneously with all three. There has been no word on which company may be chosen this year, although Mr. Gettelfinger has said he is striving for a pattern agreement.
 If a target is chosen, experts say, G.M. stands the best chance, because it is healthier than Ford and the most intent on creating a V.E.B.A. fund, given that its future medical costs are estimated at about $55 billion. But Ford could be selected because Mr. Gettelfinger, who came up through the Ford ranks, has the longest-standing relationships there.
 Chrysler, which was sold to Cerberus Capital Management last month, seems to be the least likely target, since it has new owners and must still resolve its health care situation, experts say.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the United Automobile Workers union in a Labor Day parade yesterday in Detroit. Negotiations have begun ahead of the deadline, Sept. 14, but it is not yet clear whether the union will take over health care.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C1)
 The U.A.W.'s president, Ron Gettelfinger, center, joined the parade but did not take part in the rally yesterday. The union has been publicly quiet about talks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (69%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



94 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 847 words

 BODY:
A LABOR UNION'S BIG CHOICE With contracts between the United Automobile Workers union and the Detroit automakers set to expire in less than two weeks, the U.A.W., led by its president, Ron Gettelfinger, above, is studying an overhaul of health care sought by the carmakers. On the table is the creation of a giant health care trust, which the union would administer and which would provide benefits for active and retired workers. 
 Emboldened by Toyota's plans to cut labor costs at its American factories, the United Automobile Workers union is making a concerted effort yet to organize workers at the Japanese automaker's largest American plant in Georgetown, Ky. [C1.] 
 A PUSH TO RE-REGULATE More than a decade after the drive began to convert electricity from a regulated industry into a competitive one, many states are rolling back their initiatives or returning money to individuals and businesses. The main reason behind the effort is price. Recent Energy Department data shows that the cost of power in states that embraced competition has risen faster than in states that had retained traditional rate regulation. [C1.]
 A TEST OF THE CREDIT MARKET Offering the first big test of the credit market, seven banks this week will try to entice investors to buy $24 billion in loans and bonds to pay for the sale of the First Data Corporation, the processor of credit card payments, to the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. In the coming months, more than $330 billion in leveraged buyouts are to be financed. [C1.]
 OUTSOURCERS AS INSIDERS As the 2008 presidential campaign starts to pick up, Indian outsourcing companies are waging proxy battles in Washington through local organizations, allowing them to not appear to be foreigners with an agenda as veritable insiders. [C1.]
 ORDER BLOCKED ON TAX SITE A federal appeals court has temporarily blocked an order that the Internal Revenue Service be given the names of people who acquired information from a Web site on how to stop federal tax from being withheld from their paychecks. On Aug. 9, the Web site shut down on the order of a federal judge. The Web site's owner appealed the order. [C2.]
 FORD'S SWAP SHOP In an elaborate stunt, Ford Motor set up a fake market research firm that asked dozens of new-car buyers to trade their cars for Ford vehicles for a week. The unbiased opinions of the people who drove the Fords will be part of an ad campaign that starts today. [C3.]
 THE SOARING PRICE OF MILK Driven by rising incomes in emerging economies, global milk prices have doubled over the last two years. In many countries in China, India, Latin America and the Middle East, milk is the mark of new money. In parts of the United States, milk is more expensive than gasoline. [C3.]
 WORKER PRODUCTIVITY When measuring total hours worked, workers in the United States are the world's most productive, followed by the Irish, though productivity is rising fastest in China and much of the rest of Asia according to 2006 data. [C3.]
 ENERGY MERGER IN EUROPE The French state-owned company Gaz de France announced that it would merge with the utility Suez to create one of the world's largest energy groups, dealing a blow to the European Union's ambitions to open its energy sector to greater competition. [C4.]
 MICROSOFT OPEN-FORMAT VOTE After lobbying intensely, Microsoft is expected to have its open document format, Office Open XML, recognized as an international standard, a move that would help the world's largest software maker maintain its competitive advantage in the expanding field of open-format documents. [C2]
 KEEP AN EYE ON YOUR LUGGAGE Theft can occur anywhere at an airport -- at curbside, in public areas before security, at the security checkpoint and beyond. But many travelers do not report their loss because they do not have time or they do not know they have been robbed until they get home and find something missing from their luggage. [C5.]
 GROWTH IN PRIVATE JETS With the increase in airline delays pushing business travelers to seek alternative flight arrangements, the private jet industry is expanding to meet the rising demand. [C5.]
 PRIVATE EQUITY STRONG IN ASIA Led by several global buyout funds, investors are expected to commit $25 billion in the second half of this year to private equity funds in Asia, adding to an existing pool of more than $35 billion that is waiting to be invested in deals in the region. [C8.]
 A CHALLENGE IN GERMANY After winning a deal to acquire Siemens for 11.4 billion euros in late July, the German auto parts maker Continental must now integrate a company almost as big as itself at a time when such transformational deals are out of favor. The acquisition also vaults Continental to the front ranks of the auto parts industry just as it is entering a time of consolidation. [C9.]
 GLOBAL STOCK MARKETS RISE European stocks climbed for a fourth day, paced by banking shares. Latin American indexes were led higher by oil and mining companies. Steel makers led gains in Asia. Markets were closed in the United States for Labor Day. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: MICROSOFT chart shows line graph per share. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (88%); FOOD PRICES (88%); MILK (88%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); TAX LAW (71%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (62%); EMERGING MARKETS (62%); JUDGES (62%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%)

COMPANY: FIRST DATA CORP (82%); FORD MOTOR CO (74%); KKR & CO LP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); KKR (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



95 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By JASON CAMPBELL, MICHAEL O'HANLAN and AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Jason Campbell is a senior research assistant at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at Brookings. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
IN advance of the much-anticipated Congressional testimony next week of Ryan Crocker, the ambassador to Iraq, and Gen. David Petraeus, the top United States military commander, many have agreed on what appear to be two crucial realities in Iraq: there is military momentum for combined American-Iraqi forces and there is political paralysis in Baghdad. While the recent Government Accountability Office report on the 18 benchmarks set out by Congress in May gave a very pessimistic view, our data above, culled from official Iraqi and American sources and press reports, support a more mixed picture. 
 Unfortunately, at the moment the political paralysis seems to be a more powerful force than the military momentum, and progress in security is unsustainable without sectarian compromise among Iraq's Kurds, Sunni Arabs and Shiites. The country remains very violent, and the economy rather stagnant.
 Nonetheless, the military momentum appears real, despite the tragic multiple truck bombings in Ninevah Province on Aug. 14 that made that month the deadliest since winter. Overall, civilian fatality rates are down perhaps one third since late 2006, though they remain quite high. There are also signs that roughly six of Iraq's 18 provinces are making significant economic and security gains, up from three a year ago. The story in Sunni-dominated Anbar Province is by now well known: attacks in the city of Ramadi are down 90 percent, and the economy is recovering. But there is progress in several regions with more complex sectarian mixes as well.
 Given the continuing violence, and the absence of political progress, Iraq is not now on a trajectory toward sustainable stability -- and America is not yet on a clear path to an exit strategy. With sectarian tensions so high, and hatreds so freshly stoked, Iraq's own dynamics would probably lead to an accelerating civil war if left unchecked.

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''OP-CHART'' The chart shows the changes in Iraq from August 2003- August 2007. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); BOMBINGS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



96 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Rank and File's '08 Outlook? It Seemingly Varies by Party

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Dan Frosch contributed reporting from Lakewood, Colo., Christopher Maag from Burton, Ohio, and Michael Parrish from Riverside, Calif.

DATELINE: ANTRIM, N.H., Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Nancy Adams bought her fishing line this morning at Place in the Woods, an old trading post here, and was hopping back into her red pickup truck when she was asked to contemplate the political landscape.
 Mrs. Adams, an energetic 70, is a lifelong Republican who voted for Senator John McCain in the 2000 primary and backs President Bush. But she is a bit lost when it comes to the current crop of eight candidates seeking the Republican presidential nomination.
 ''I'm having a hard time sorting out all these candidates and what they think,'' she said. ''I liked McCain, but he's losing ground too fast to win. I don't know if it's his age or the war.
 ''We'll see what Thompson says,'' she added, referring to former Senator Fred D. Thompson, who is expected to enter the race on Thursday. 
 Interviews with dozens of Republicans across the country this Labor Day weekend found that despite the already lengthy campaign, which started almost a year ago, many candidates have made either no impression or a negative one, and many voters are still chewing over their options.
 ''The Republicans need to get their spunk back,'' said Leanne Stein, 41, who lives in Claridon, Ohio, and works at a retirement home.
 So far, Ms. Stein said, Rudolph W. Giuliani has shown a bit.
 ''He's got style, and he has firsthand experience with how to run government in a way that deals with terrorism,'' she said. ''But he needs someone to coach him on all the issues. All he talks about is terrorism. What about health care? What about education?''
 By and large, those interviewed said they still supported Mr. Bush, but they were deeply ambivalent about the war in Iraq, leaving them ambivalent in turn about their party's presidential candidates, most of whom have so far stuck close to Mr. Bush on the matter. 
 ''What we're going to do with the war is a big issue,'' said Caleb McNew, 22, of Lakewood, Colo., who works in building maintenance. 
 Mr. McNew said he was leaning toward Mr. Giuliani, who as mayor of New York, he said, ''did a pretty good job during Sept. 11.''
 Some Republicans said they thought the field was strong despite the war.
 They included Bryan and Nicole Goulet, who set up a front-row seat Monday with their 2-year-old daughter, Camryn, for the traditional Labor Day parade in Milford, N.H. The parade, under a sparkling blue sky, drew three presidential candidates: Mr. Romney and two Democrats, Senators Barack Obama and Christopher J. Dodd.
 Mrs. Goulet, 37, a business development manager, said she liked both Mr. Romney, who is leading in the polls in New Hampshire and Iowa, and Mr. Giuliani, who is leading in the national polls. 
 She said she expected they would both ''toe the party line'' on Iraq, though her sister is a marine who is about to go to Iraq and ''on a personal level, I'd love for her not to have to go.'' In any event, she said, the war ''is not the only issue,'' and both Mr. Romney and Mr. Giuliani are good business executives. She said she might be leaning toward Mr. Giuliani, because he supports abortion rights. 
 Mr. Goulet, 38, a welder foreman, voted for Bill Clinton in 1992 and 1996, then did not vote in the next two elections. He now likes Mr. McCain, because of his military background. ''It's tough to send troops somewhere if you haven't been there yourself,'' Mr. Goulet said. 
 Josh Schultz, 28, of Lancaster, Ohio, who drives a bulldozer and also works as a mechanic, said he was starting to like Mr. Romney ''because he seems down to earth.''
 Mr. Schultz said he also liked Mr. McCain, ''but I don't think he'll make it; he's been around a long time'' and will have trouble attracting younger voters.
 As for Mr. Giuliani, he has the benefit of having been mayor of New York, ''where you have all different kinds of people from all over the world, unlike where I'm from, where it's mostly all white people.''
 Asked about Mr. Thompson, he replied: ''Who's that? Oh, that guy on TV? I haven't heard much about him. I've been working too much to watch TV news.''
 William Sedlak, 47, a flight attendant who lives in Aliso Viejo, Calif., said he liked Mr. Giuliani because ''he's conservative enough but he's still a little liberal enough.''
 Wayne Horton, 53, who works in construction as a house framer and lives in Burton, Ohio, has been mulling the field and has decided he likes Mr. Romney because he looks presidential, but worries that some people may oppose him because he is a Mormon.
 Mr. Horton has pretty much ruled out the others:
 ''Giuliani, he's pro-abortion,'' he said. ''It's hard for me to believe that he's a Republican front-runner. Giuliani's children aren't even supporting him. He's had three wives. I don't like that.'' 
 And Mr. McCain cannot win because voters are looking for someone fresh, he said. ''He never impressed me, anyway,'' Mr. Horton said. ''Plus, he comes from Arizona, where he let all the immigrants walk in with no repercussions.''
 Mr. Thompson? ''I really don't know much about him. I'm not that informed. Really, I just rely on TV and what my wife tells me from reading the paper, and then we talk about it over supper. We're out trying to make a living, so we rely on the media to tell us about the candidates' qualifications.''
 Kent Frisby, 53, who lives in Concord, Ohio, and works as the chief financial officer at a private high school, branded Mr. Giuliani a ''womanizer.'' 
 ''He's had three wives, and how many girlfriends?'' Mr. Frisby said. ''Yeah. No way.''
 Caroll McLaughlin, 62, a medical assistant who lives in Auburn, Ohio, said of Mr. Giuliani: ''He did a great job as mayor of New York. But he has a temper that needs to be controlled. And he's not easy to get along with.''
 She also said she liked Mike Huckabee, ''because he's not a Washington insider.''
 Don Headley, 71, from Lakewood, Colo., like Mr. McNew, pronounced the current field mediocre but said he might vote for Mr. Romney, ''if I was going to vote for somebody,'' adding, ''I think he's probably the most straightforward, upstanding one of the bunch.''
 Dave McMullen, 63, a dairy farmer in Warsaw, Ohio, said many of the candidates were not addressing the economy. He has taken a particular dislike to Mr. Romney.
 ''He's not thinking about agriculture or the economy,'' Mr. McMullen said. ''We got so many foreclosures in my county. People are losing their jobs. All the big factories are moving down to Mexico, where they can get cheap labor. I don't see Mitt Romney or any of them talking about that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US LABOR DAY (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); IRAQ WAR (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); TERRORISM (69%); PARADES & MARCHES (60%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (72%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



97 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-11
 Bush Pre-empts Critics
 In Surprise Visit to Iraq
 President Bush made a surprise visit to Iraq for meetings with commanders and Iraqi officials. Mr. Bush pre-empted pressure for withdrawal, expected at Congressional hearings this week, by hailing what he called successes in Iraq and contending that only a stable Iraq would allow American forces to pull back. A1 
 A previously undisclosed exchange of letters shows that President Bush was told in advance by his top Iraq envoy in May 2003 of a plan to ''dissolve Saddam's military and intelligence structures.'' A1 
 Iraq's foreign minister delivered a strongly worded demand to Iran's president to halt the shelling of a mountainous border region in Iraq's north. A10 North Korea Penalties to End? 
 North Korea announced that the United States agreed to lift economic sanctions and remove it from a list of countries accused of sponsoring terrorism, a move that would satisfy one of North Korea's conditions for giving up nuclear weapons. A11 Taliban Seize 300 Pakistanis
 Close to 300 Pakistani soldiers and officers have been held captive for four days after they were seized by pro-Taliban militants near the Afghan border. A8 U.N. Chief in Sudan for Talks
 United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon began a weeklong African trip with a plea that Sudan ensure the rights of its citizens. A9 
 Accused Scholar Leaves Iran
 Haleh Esfandiari, the Iranian-American scholar accused of spying who had been imprisoned for more than three months, has left Iran. Another scholar remains jailed on similar charges. A6 
 Gaza Rocket Hits Near School
 A rocket fired from Gaza landed in a courtyard between a day care center and an elementary school in the Israeli border town of Sderot, the police said. A9 
 Burmese Junta Locks Power
 After 14 years of on-and-off sessions, a constitutional convention in Myanmar produced a set of charter guidelines that guaranteed the military's continued dominance. A3 
 Calls for Election in Japan
 Japan's main opposition party pressed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to dissolve the lower house of Parliament and call a general election after Mr. Abe's government became embroiled in a fresh round of scandals. A3 
 Strike Cripples London Tube
 London's subway virtually shut down during rush hour when 2,300 maintenance workers walked off their jobs in a strike over pensions and security. A8 
 NATIONALA12-17 
 Bipolar Diagnoses Soar
 Among American Children
 The number of American children and adolescents treated for bipolar disorder increased 40-fold from 1994 to 2003, researchers report in the most comprehensive study of the diagnosis. A1 
 The Future Knockoffs
 As another Fashion Week begins in New York, the debate over copying designers' work continues. Hundreds of companies will watch the runways and ultimately make less expensive versions of the garments for trendy stores and retail behemoths. A1 
 Voters' Views on Candidates
 Interviews with dozens of Democrats across the country this Labor Day weekend found them enthusiastic about the presidential candidates and, if slightly nervous about their potential weaknesses, confident of a victory in 2008. A17 
 Interviews with Republicans, meanwhile, found that despite the already lengthy campaign, which started almost a year ago, many candidates have either made no impression or a negative one. Many voters are still chewing over their options. A17 Muslim Leaders Speak Out
 It is time for the United States to stop treating every American Muslim as somehow suspect, leaders of the faith said at their largest annual convention, held in Rosemont, Ill. Six years after the Sept. 11 attacks, Americans should distinguish between mainstream Muslims and the radical fringe, the leaders said. A12 
 New Train Brings New Hopes
 The light-rail train in Los Angeles, set to begin running in 2009, will allow passengers to get to areas throughout the county, affecting primarily those from communities like Boyle Heights that are cut off geographically from the city's beach districts and central business areas. A12 
 EDUCATION
 Public Colleges Increase Fees
 At just over half the nation's four-year public colleges, fees rose faster than tuition in the 2005-6 school year and the previous year, according to the College Board, which tracks trends in college costs. A1 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA18-19Lawsuits Filed Over 9/11
 Moving Toward Trial
 After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, victims' families had to choose between accepting what some perceived as a minimal award from a federal compensation fund, or filing a lawsuit. Forty-one families did the latter, and the little-noticed lawsuits they have brought will soon move toward a trial. A1 
 Labor Day Observed
 Millions across the region observed a Labor Day with festivals, ballgames, backyard barbecues and treks to parks and beaches. But in New York, a city known as the cradle of America's labor movement, there was no salute by organized labor.A18 
 Immigration Splits Family
 Bryan Lonegan, an immigrant rights advocate, and his brother, Steven M.Lonegan, the mayor of Bogota, N.J., who pushed to make English the town's official language, had a spectacular falling out in 2005. But how these brothers ended up on opposite sides of the immigration debate is less of a mystery than how they stayed close for so long.A19 
 SCIENCE TIMESD1-8
 Possible Gene Breakthrough
 In 2003, a consortium said it had completed the human genome, fending off a challenge from the biologist J. Craig Venter. But his research team has announced that it has decoded a new version of the human genome that some experts believe may be better.D1
 Health & FitnessD5
 ARTSB1-8
 Dispute Over Dance Rights
 Choreographers with the New Dance Group, an crucible of modern dance from the 1930s, '40s and '50s, and the children of two others, are now embroiled in a court battle over who has the right to perform their dances.B1
 OBITUARIESA21
 Anthony Day
 A longtime editorial page editor of The Los Angeles Times who helped transform the paper into a respected voice in national affairs, he was 74.A21
 BUSINESS DAYC1-11 
 Regulating Energy, Again
 Many states are rolling back initiatives to deregulate the electricity industry. Behind the effort is Energy Department data showing that the cost of power in states that embraced competition has risen faster than in those that have not. C1 
 A Union Push at Toyota
 The United Automobile Workers union is making its most concerted push yet to organize Toyota workers in Georgetown, Ky. C1 
 The Outsourcing Lobby
 As the 2008 presidential campaign starts to pick up speed, outsourcing companies from India have returned to Washington as veritable insiders, slicker and better connected than ever. C1 
 Business DigestC2 
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: What you don't know can hurt you; a national disgrace; the wrong answer in Connecticut; whose treasure is it really?
 Columns: David Brooks and Bob Herbert.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CHILDREN (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); ESPIONAGE (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (68%); TERRORISM (67%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (62%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); FASHION SHOWS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SHINZO ABE (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); BAN KI-MOON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); SUDAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); MYANMAR (92%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



98 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Challenge for a German Tire Maker

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: HANNOVER, Germany 

 BODY:
Soon after Manfred Wennemer, chief executive of the German auto parts maker Continental, clinched an 11.4 billion euro deal for Siemens VDO in late July, he hustled off to a vacation in France for a little rest. Judging from his harried demeanor, exhausted slouch and a recent schedule that seemed exceptionally packed even by chief executive standards, the deal-making may have been the easy part.
 Mr. Wennemer now faces the challenge of integrating a company almost as big as his own at a time when such transformational deals are out of favor. That is especially true in Germany, where DaimlerChrysler is in the process of becoming Daimler again. 
 The acquisition also vaults Continental -- an unremarkable tire manufacturer only a decade ago -- into the front ranks of the auto parts industry just as it is entering a period of consolidation.
 ''We have a difficult process ahead of us to keep what we have in terms of technology and above all people, but also to make the changes we need to work well together,'' Mr. Wennemer said during a recent interview at his headquarters in Hannover.
 Amid rising competition from Asia, established suppliers find they need to get out of low-profit margin businesses and invest huge sums in developing ever more high-technology products where they can still compete. With concern about global warming looming over the auto industry, efficient fuel injectors and pollutant sensors that look more Silicon Valley than Stuttgart or Detroit will be the order of the day, as will software-driven safety systems that keep an eye on entertainment systems, speed limits and other cars.
 Mr. Wennemer has the advantage that much of VDO's business is in Germany, and the former Siemens division is full of engineers who are familiar with what Continental produces. The products will, quite literally, fit together. To take but one example, VDO has long been a strong player in fuel injectors that improve fuel economy, while Continental has invested heavily in the software and hardware that calibrates and controls the injectors.
 And, Mr. Wennemer added, strategic planners at Continental have been plotting a takeover and integration of VDO since 2001 in the hopes that Siemens, the conglomerate based in Munich, would divest itself of its auto parts business.
 Since both companies are German, Continental should escape some of the cultural clashes that bedeviled DaimlerChrysler. But for sheer scale, his task remains daunting: Continental is swallowing a company that had 10 billion euros, or $13.6 billion, in sales last year, two-thirds of what Continental itself had. 
 ''DaimlerChrysler had the problem that they had two very different cultures that married one another, but really didn't like each other,'' said Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, director of the Center for Automotive Studies in Gelsenkirchen. ''But this is a big deal for Wennemer, no doubt about that.''
 Mr. Wennemer also acquired VDO at a time when the supplier industry in the United States, the biggest auto market in the world, is in the worst shape in recent memory.
 TRW, based in Cleveland, burdened by a serious debt load, bowed out of the running for Siemens VDO, apparently when the price went too high. Delphi, the former subsidiary of General Motors and now a major supplier, remains mired in bankruptcy proceedings. Indeed, United States companies are facing pressure from their best customers to lower prices, with very little leverage to fight back.
 ''American companies don't have the cost advantage even though they sometimes deliver lower-end products,'' said Aleksej Wunrau, an auto analyst at BHF Bank in Frankfurt. ''That is making their life very difficult.''
 But problems for the competition do not make Mr. Wennemer's life automatically easier.
 In buying Siemens VDO, Continental bought an auto parts maker with a long history distinguished by its popularization of the speedometer. With roots back to 1902, VDO was chiefly the baby of Adolf Schindling, a German automotive mogul, but his daughter, a German Olympic equestrian, disposed of the company in 1994 to the Mannesmann conglomerate.
 After a British company, Vodafone, bought Mannesmann for its mobile phone business, Siemens snapped up VDO in 2001 and added the name to its own because it is a highly valued brand in the industry. 
 Continental, which has many brands in its lineup as a result of a string of acquisitions, is promising to keep the VDO spirit alive -- to the delight of its employees.
 ''Just like we used those brands for other products, we will use this one,'' Mr. Wennemer said.
 The size and prestige of Continental's catch has informed its approach to integrating the two companies. Mr. Wennemer has spent much of the last month passing through VDO's various production sites -- including its headquarters in Regensburg, in southern Germany -- driving home the message that Continental needs the good will of its new employees at least as much as they need their new employer.
 Mr. Wennemer is also making some promises to build early loyalty.
 Continental's auto parts division will be divided into three when the VDO integration is complete, covering security-related parts, powertrain components and information and entertainment systems. At least one of those will be based in Regensburg, Mr. Wennemer said, and personnel decisions will give no preference to Continental's people. Analysts have interpreted this as a signal that the VDO chief executive, Wolfgang Dehen, can probably count on a position as a division chief -- a status he never enjoyed at Siemens.
 ''The Continental system will not necessarily win,'' Mr. Wennemer said. ''What will win is the best system and the best man for the job.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Manfred Wennemer, chief of Continental, has said he will not favor its employees.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RALF DECKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); TIRE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EURO (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIVESTITURES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); SPEED LIMITS (64%)

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL AG (92%); DAIMLER AG (84%); CONTINENTAL AUTOMOTIVE GMBH (58%); SIEMENS AG (56%)

TICKER: CON (FRA) (92%); DAI (FRA) (84%); DAI (BIT) (84%); SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (92%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (92%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3694 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES (58%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: MANFRED WENNEMER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



99 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Lobbying in U.S., Indian Firms Present an American Face

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India 

 BODY:
In the heat of the 2004 presidential race in the United States, John Kerry compared outsourcing to treason, Lou Dobbs harangued against it on CNN and the Indian outsourcing vendors were left scrambling.
 Engineers to the core, their leaders fired back with data-packed PowerPoint presentations. Outsourcing is good for the economy, they said. It increases efficiency. It creates more jobs than it costs. But in the eyes of many Americans, those arguments proved no match for accounts of laid-off software engineers.
 ''Telling someone who loses their job in North Carolina or Jacksonville that this is good for the economy doesn't work,'' said Phiroz A. Vandrevala, an executive vice president at Tata Consultancy Services, one of the largest Indian vendors, who serves as a Washington strategist for Tata and other Indian companies.
 But if four years is a lifetime in Washington, it is an eternity in Bangalore. And as the 2008 campaign starts to pick up speed, the Indian outsourcing companies have returned to Washington as veritable insiders, slicker and better connected than ever. 
 They have hired a former official in the Bush administration as a lobbyist. They are humanizing the issue by bringing Americans they have hired into meetings with politicians.
 And, most striking, they have mastered the Washington art of waging proxy battles through local organizations, which allows them to not appear to be foreigners with an agenda. 
 Lakshmi Narayanan, the chairman of the National Association of Software and Service Companies, which represents the Indian outsourcing industry, agreed that the approach was crucial. ''The moment Nasscom says something, it is a vested interest,'' he said. So in the last few months, Mr. Narayanan said, the trade group has decided ''to provide the data, work behind the scenes, but really to be fronted by the local organizations.''
 The Indian companies are mounting this effort out of fear that the pressures of the presidential election, and of the Democratic primaries especially, will induce candidates to lash out at Indian vendors. Their business model is a perpetual lightning rod: the companies carve out tasks from their American clients and perform them more cheaply in India or other places with low costs for overhead and labor.
 The Indian vendors' main worries are two Democratic candidates: Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, whose campaign has hinted at opposition to outsourcing, and John Edwards, former senator of North Carolina, who is running a populist campaign. Many Indian executives consider Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, more sympathetic to their industry, but they are concerned that she will be compelled to match the others' statements in a tight contest.
 The Democrats' new majorities in Congress were built in part on opposition to unpopular facets of free trade like outsourcing. For the Indian companies, a recent attempt in Congress to further restrict visas for skilled workers underscored that a storm is gathering.
 Some in Washington would like to make outsourcing an issue again, said one Washington lobbyist who represents some of the Indian companies and who asked not to be identified because of company rules.
 But if the movement against outsourcing is roused again, it will find itself jousting with a changed opponent. The Indian vendors have in no way strayed from their belief that outsourcing benefits both India and the United States. But they have found smoother ways to get the point across.
 The Indian trade group has hired as its chief Washington lobbyist Robert D. Blackwill, a former senior White House adviser who served as the ambassador to India for the Bush administration. As the president of Barbour Griffith & Rogers International, an arm of one of the most powerful lobby shops in Washington, he is a heavy hitter on Capitol Hill.
 Over the last year, Mr. Blackwill and the Indian companies' executives have met with staff members of more than 100 lawmakers, said the lobbyist who asked not to be identified. 
 Mr. Vandrevala said executives from the Indian companies visiting the United States, including those on a trip organized by the Indian trade group in May, have met with aides to all the major presidential candidates, including Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Obama, the former New York mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. Several months ago, he said, the National Association of Software and Service Companies had an evening reception for members of the House's India caucus. It drew 40 to 50 people.
 But the core of the Indian vendors' new strategy appears to be removing themselves from the limelight. Outsourcing is not about us, goes the new pitch to lawmakers, it benefits Americans, including ones in your district.
 The Washington lobbyist who asked not to be identified said that a focus of the campaign was to collect data on Indian companies' investments in the United States and then to lobby members of Congress from districts where those investments have created jobs.
 For example, a lawmaker from Washington State might be told something like this: Indian outsourcing companies may funnel some Seattle-area technology jobs to India, but with the affluence that creates in India, more and more Indians are flying. That has made India a huge buyer of Boeing aircraft and thus a creator of jobs in the Seattle area, where Boeing does much of its manufacturing.
 Kiran Karnik, the president of the Indian trade group, said his organization has collaborated with research firms like the Brookings Institution and the Heritage Foundation. His group shares data on the outsourcing industry and provides access to Indian companies. It has also made what Mr. Karnik described as ''symbolic'' donations of about $10,000 to $15,000 to each of the major research organizations it works with. ''Because we're able to give them a lot of data on information technology in India,'' he said, ''maybe that enables someone to write a good paper on the global trade in services.''
 The Indians have also begun to use their own customers, which include the largest United States companies, as proxy soldiers. The vendors and the clients belong to trade groups like the Information Technology Association of America, which help coordinate lobbying campaigns in which American chief executives write op-ed articles for newspapers or address Congress on topics that serve the American companies as well as the Indian vendors.
 ''We don't want to be seen as very active there because it can seem that India is trying to poke its nose into the debate,'' Mr. Karnik said. ''We would prefer that the active effort of working the Hill is done by U.S. companies.''
 Indian-American political groups in the United States can also be effective proxies. The U.S.-India Political Action Committee has defended outsourcing vendors, most of whose employees are in India, although the group represents Indian-Americans. A profile of Mrs. Clinton on the group's Web site notes that ''even though she was against outsourcing at the beginning of her political career, she has since changed her position.''
 In an internal memo leaked in June, staff members from the Obama campaign contended that Mrs. Clinton's ties to wealthy Indian businesspeople had made her favor outsourcing. The memo cited the Clintons' ties to Vinod Gupta, an Indian entrepreneur who founded InfoUSA, one of the United States' largest brokers of information on consumers. Mr. Gupta, a major fund-raiser and benefactor for the Clintons who was nominated for ambassadorships by President Bill Clinton, was detailed in the Obama memo because his company outsources to India and he has vocally supported the practice.
 In a sign of their changing approach, the Indian vendors are also imitating a tactic used against them in the last election: putting a human, and preferably American, face on the issue.
 Tata Consultancy has, for example, brought its American communications director, Mike McCabe, into meetings with lawmakers' staffs and to a recent technology conference in Washington, according to an Indian executive who is familiar with the meetings and who asked not to be identified because of his organization's privacy rules. The executive said the objective was to remind politicians that Tata hires Americans.
 The Washington lobbyist who represents some of the Indian companies said that when the opposition paints outsourcing as bad for the United States, proponents can counter by making Americans the face of Indian companies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Near New Delhi, an employee helping a client of the Convergys Corporation, an American call center company.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GURINDER OSAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C1)
 Kiran Karnik, president of an Indian trade group, said his organization had worked with Americans to build good will.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PRAKASH SINGH/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (74%); POLITICS (74%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

COMPANY: TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES LTD (56%)

TICKER: TCS (NSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC7376 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



100 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1745 words

HEADLINE: Bush, in Iraq, Says Troop Reduction Is Possible

BYLINE: By DAVID S. CLOUD and STEVEN LEE MYERS; James Glanz contributed reporting from Cairo. David S. Cloud reported from Al Asad Air Base and Steven Lee Myers from Washington.

DATELINE: AL ASAD AIR BASE, Iraq, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
President Bush made a surprise eight-hour visit to Iraq on Monday, emphasizing security gains, sectarian reconciliation and the possibility of a troop withdrawal, thus embracing and pre-empting this month's crucial Congressional hearings on his Iraq strategy. 
 His visit, with his commanders and senior Iraqi officials, had a clear political goal: to try to head off opponents' pressure for a withdrawal by hailing what he called recent successes in Iraq and by contending that only making Iraq stable would allow American forces to pull back.
 Mr. Bush's visit to Iraq -- his third -- was spent at this remote desert base in the restive Sunni province of Anbar, where he had summoned Iraq's Shiite prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, and others to demonstrate that reconciliation among Iraq's warring sectarian factions was at least conceivable, if not yet a fact.
 After talks with Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq, and Ryan C. Crocker, the ambassador to Iraq, Mr. Bush said that they ''tell me that if the kind of success we are now seeing here continues it will be possible to maintain the same level of security with fewer American forces.'' 
 Mr. Bush did not say how large a troop withdrawal was possible. Nor did he say whether he envisioned any forces being withdrawn sooner than next spring, when the first of the additional 30,000 troops Mr. Bush sent to Iraq this year are scheduled to come home anyway.
 Still, his remarks were the clearest indication yet that a reduction would begin sometime in the months ahead, answering the growing opposition in Washington to an unpopular war while at the same time trying to argue that any change in strategy was not a failure.
 ''Those decisions will be based on a calm assessment by our military commanders on the conditions on the ground -- not a nervous reaction by Washington politicians to poll results in the media,'' Mr. Bush told a gathering of American troops, who responded with a rousing cheer. ''In other words, when we begin to draw down troops from Iraq, it will be from a position of strength and success, not from a position of fear and failure. To do otherwise would embolden our enemies and make it more likely that they would attack us at home.''
 To ensure security, the White House shrouded Mr. Bush's visit in secrecy, issuing a misleading schedule that said he would leave the White House on Monday and Air Force One would refuel in Hawaii. Instead, the president left the White House on Sunday night, traveled to Andrews Air Force Base without the usual motorcade and after an overnight flight arrived in Iraq on a sweltering summer afternoon when temperatures reached 110 degrees.
 Mr. Bush flew with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and his national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, an extraordinary gathering of top leaders in a war zone. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, flew to Iraq separately and joined them.
 The Anbar region is a Sunni stronghold where in recent months there have been significant improvements in security. Administration officials have been touting the gains as evidence that the increase in American troops has proved a success -- a word Mr. Bush used eight times in his public remarks on Monday.
 Mr. Hadley, briefing reporters, recalled a military intelligence officer's dire warning a year ago that Al Qaeda controlled the provincial capital, Ramadi, and other towns in the region. ''Anbar Province is lost,'' he quoted the analyst as saying then. Mr. Hadley was apparently referring to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the homegrown Sunni Arab extremist group that American intelligence agencies have concluded is foreign led. The extent of its links to Osama bin Laden's network is not clear.
 On Monday, after meeting with some of the local Sunni leaders who only months ago led the struggle against the American presence in the region, Mr. Bush held up Anbar as a model of the progress that was possible.
 ''When you stand on the ground here in Anbar and hear from the people who live here, you can see what the future of Iraq can look like,'' he said, night having fallen at the base.
 During his visit, Mr. Bush did not leave the base, a heavily fortified home to about 10,000 American troops about 120 miles west of Baghdad. Mr. Hadley said planning for the trip had started five or six weeks ago. 
 Administration officials rejected the notion that the trip was a publicity stunt. They said Mr. Bush wanted to meet face-to-face with General Petraeus and Mr. Crocker, who are to testify before Congress about progress in Iraq next week, and with Iraqi leaders he has been pressing from afar to take steps toward political reconciliation.
 By summoning Mr. Maliki and other top officials to the Sunni heartland, a region the Shiite prime minister has rarely visited, Mr. Bush succeeded in forcing a public display of unity. Meeting with the Iraqi leaders in a buff-colored one-story building near the runway, Mr. Bush effusively greeted President Jalal Talabani, the last of the five officials to enter the small conference room. ''Mr. President, Mr. President, the president of the whole Iraq,'' Mr. Bush said, kissing Mr. Talabani three times on the cheeks.
 The other Iraqi officials there were Vice President Adel Abdul-Mehdi, Vice President Tariq al-Hashemi, Deputy Prime Minister Barham Salih and Massoud Barzani, the president of the Kurdistan region. 
 ''The government they represent, of course, is based in Baghdad,'' Mr. Bush said, appearing with Ms. Rice and Mr. Gates in front of two parked Humvees at the base, ''but they're here because they know the success of a free Iraq depends on the national government's support from the bottom up.''
 Iraq's foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, who was visiting neighboring Iran when Mr. Bush and the other top administration officials arrived, was conspicuously absent. Mr. Zebari, a Kurd, said he had been aware that high-level visitors from the United States were coming but that his trip to Iran had been planned long in advance and that the timing was strictly a coincidence.
 In Washington, a spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, said the president's visit and his assertions about progress would do little to persuade skeptics. ''Despite this massive P.R. operation, the American people are still demanding a new strategy,'' the spokesman, Jim Manley, said in a telephone interview.
 Anthony H. Cordesman, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the reversal in Anbar had less do with American strategy than with local frustration over the extremism of Al Qaeda fighters trying to impose their doctrine. Mr. Cordesman suggested it was more of an anomaly than a model that could be applied elsewhere in Iraq, where sectarian divisions and strife appear to be worsening.
 ''We are spinning events that don't really reflect the reality on the ground,'' he said.
 While some administration officials have recently described the Sunni shift in Anbar as serendipitous, they portrayed the improvements as an outgrowth, at least in part, of the decision to send nearly 4,000 additional marines to the province as part of the White House strategy to increase troops. ''This is not serendipity,'' Mr. Hadley told reporters.
 Distrust remains deep between Sunnis in Anbar and the Maliki government -- and it is clear that Mr. Maliki sees effort by the American military to organize armed groups of Sunnis to assist American troops as a policy that amounts to assisting his enemies. Nor is it clear that the same model can be made to work in areas of Iraq where Sunnis and Shiites live together.
 Sunnis, for their part, complain that the Maliki government has long failed to deliver services and to share oil revenue with Anbar. Describing the meeting Monday between the tribal sheiks and Iraqi officials from Baghdad, Mr. Gates said, ''There was a sense of shared purpose among them and some good-natured jousting over resources.''
 It remained unclear whether Mr. Bush planned to announce any specific troop withdrawals when he delivers the congressionally mandated report later this month.
 Several administration officials say Mr. Bush and his commanders and military advisers have neared a consensus on beginning a reduction in American forces. Speaking to reporters traveling with him, Mr. Gates said Monday that he had formulated his opinion, though he declined to disclose it.
 Asked about Mr. Bush's comments on possible troop reductions, Mr. Gates added, ''Clearly that is one of the central issues that everyone has been examining -- what is the security situation, what do we expect the security situation to be in the months ahead?'' He went on to say, ''What opportunities does that provide in terms of maintaining the security situation while perhaps beginning to bring the troop level down?''
 As he did in Washington late last week, Mr. Bush urged lawmakers to withhold judgment on the situation in Iraq until hearing first-hand reports next week from General Petraeus and Mr. Crocker. At the same time, though, he has used the White House's considerable platform to assert his own views.
 ''The strategy we put into place earlier this year was designed to help the Iraqis improve their security so that political and economic progress could follow,'' Mr. Bush said after meeting with Mr. Maliki and the other Iraqi leaders. ''And that is exactly the effect it is having in places like Anbar.''
 Maliki Claims Political Progress
 BAGHDAD, Sept. 3 -- Earlier on Monday, at a news conference here, Mr. Maliki made his own effort to underscore political progress his government had achieved in recent weeks. He said that a long-discussed law allowing former members of the Baath Party of Saddam Hussein to return to jobs in government had been submitted to Parliament.
 ''This law has been approved by the political leaders, and by the national political council,'' Mr. Maliki said. ''It is now before the parliament to discuss it and approve it.''
 Agreement on the law, part of a package of requirements pressed by the Bush administration, would be an important milestone.
 ''We believe that this law represents the minimum accepted level of our ambitions,'' said Salman al-Jumaili, a lawmaker from the main Sunni coalition. 
 An earlier agreement on a law broke down after Shiite leaders in southern Iraq voiced opposition. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Bush, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice after a news conference during a surprise eight-hour visit to Al Asad, a remote desert air base 120 miles west of Baghdad in the restive Sunni province of Anbar.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS)(pg. A1)
 President Bush with marines at Al Asad Air Base. He also met with Iraq's prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, and President Jalal Talabani, standing. It was Mr. Bush's third visit to Iraq.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON REED/REUTERS)(pg. A10) CHART: Bush's Surprise Visits to Iraq: Yesterday, President Bush made his third trip to Iraq since the United States-led invasion in March 2003.(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); MILITARY BASES (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); JALAL TALABANI (59%); ROBERT M GATES (59%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



101 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Bill Clinton's Challenge: Keep the Focus on His Wife

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: SIOUX CITY, Iowa, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Bill Clinton has delivered 30 years' worth of campaign stump speeches as a political candidate, governor and president. His latest effort is his shortest yet at about eight minutes long, and perhaps his most challenging: boiling down, in the pithiest and warmest way, why his wife should be in the White House.
 Mr. Clinton is notably garrulous on an impressive range of topics: Touring a New Hampshire fair on Sunday, he gave an impromptu master class to reporters on how to grow oversized watermelons and pumpkins. So when it comes to a subject he could dissect on a cellular level, like his wife, he could probably speak for days. 
 The goal is to be succinct and memorable in introducing his wife at campaign rallies, as he did Sunday in New Hampshire and here in Iowa on Monday -- yet not so memorable that his remarks overshadow hers. His prose, their advisers say, should vividly showcase Hillary Rodham Clinton's accomplishments as a Democratic senator from New York and cast her as the most qualified contender.
 It is also Mr. Clinton's job to try to knock down any doubts about Mrs. Clinton's electability in a national race. Mr. Clinton usually tries to sound neutral, noting that in her Senate re-election race in 2006, Mrs. Clinton carried dozens of New York counties that President Bush had won. Yet after delivering these statistics at a rally on Sunday evening in Portsmouth, N.H., Mr. Clinton had a testier moment as well.
 ''This electability thing is a canard; it doesn't amount to a hill of beans,'' Mr. Clinton told a crowd of several thousand people. ''What you need to figure out is, Who would be the best president?''
 Mr. Clinton's words carry weight, even if his bias is obvious. He often tries to minimize that bias -- as if that were possible -- by offering a somewhat contorted testimonial: Even if they were not married, he says, he would still campaign for her as the best candidate.
 He can be self-deprecating about his own bona fides. ''I have a pretty unique perspective about what the challenges of the job are,'' he said in Portsmouth and at a rally earlier Sunday in Concord, N.H. 
 But he can be uneven in keeping the spotlight on her: Here, on Monday morning, he promoted his administration's economic track record, while in New Hampshire on Sunday he kept the focus on what his wife would do as president.
 The inner wonk stays buried for this speech -- he keeps the dry policy to under a minute. At the same time, though, Mr. Clinton sometimes speaks in boilerplate language that leaves audiences still.
 ''She has been working on education for more than 25 years; she has a very good program on that,'' he said in Portsmouth. ''She has a real understanding of what it would take to withdraw from Iraq.''
 The former president barely dwells on Mrs. Clinton's years as first lady; instead, he focuses on her Senate years and her intellect. She has ''the best combination of mind and heart'' he has ever seen, he has said; in New Hampshire on Sunday, he linked her abilities with her agenda, saying ''she has the best plan to give us a clean, green energy future to create jobs, not cost jobs.''
 Mr. Clinton devotes a full minute, and sounds particularly emphatic, on the next bit -- asserting that other nations and world leaders are pulling for Mrs. Clinton's election in 2008. The leaders are not named but seem to be from all over -- Asia, Africa, some in Europe, he has said. On Sunday he roped in voters across Europe and Canada as well, citing a new poll that found Mrs. Clinton more popular than the other American presidential candidates in those countries.
 ''You want to fix America's position in the world overnight?'' he said in Portsmouth. ''Elect Hillary president.''
 As for raw emotion, it usually comes with the closing anecdote: Mr. Clinton invariably chokes up or bites his lower lip as he recalls how a New York firefighter grabbed his arm on a golf course one day and told him that Mrs. Clinton recognized early the potential health threats of 9/11 and sought assistance for workers at the site who became ill.
 ''I was standing there in tears, practically,'' Mr. Clinton said in Portsmouth, describing the firefighter's praise for her. ''He said, 'I would do anything I could to make her the next president.' ''
 The timing of the anecdote can be fuzzy: Mr. Clinton first gave the account during an Iowa trip in early July; in speeches during this Labor Day weekend, he said he spoke to the firefighter ''a few weeks ago'' and ''the other day.'' His advisers say the firefighter talked to him in June.
 What really matters, of course, is whether the Clintons can persuade the firefighter to appear on the campaign trail at some point and hail Mrs. Clinton. She is indeed popular with New York firefighters, but one from the days after 9/11 could prove powerful. For now, though, she has Mr. Clinton's testimonial -- a singular boon, political analysts say, especially since Mrs. Clinton's speech sometimes drags. 
 ''That's why Bill is such a tremendous asset,'' said Ruth Sherman, a political communications consultant, who finds Mrs. Clinton's stump speech to be awkward at times. ''He cannot, however, do it for her endlessly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former President Bill Clinton campaigning for Hillary Rodham. Clinton yesterday in Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROBERT W BEST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2007



102 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Hawaii Ferry Sits Idle Amid Protests and Court Rulings

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER PALA

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
A giant twin-hulled ferry designed to transform transportation between the Hawaiian Islands for tourists and residents made its maiden voyage on Aug. 26. 
 But today, the $85 million boat, the Alakai, lies idle in the harbor here, prevented by court order from sailing to Maui and by protesters from going to Kauai. A citizens group there was preparing to ask a judge for a similar order.
 ''The law requires the Superferry to prove it's safe,'' said Daniel Hempey, the group's lead lawyer. 
 The luxurious 450-foot ferry, thought to be the largest aluminum ship ever built in the United States, would be the first to carry cars (up to 286), trucks and 866 passengers between the island of Oahu, Honolulu's home, and two neighbor islands, Maui and Kauai. 
 Operating at 40 miles per hour, the Alakai has a state-of-the-art computer system to reduce pitching and rolling in Hawaii's choppy seas. Wide windows allow travelers to view the islands from the sea, many for the first time. A sister ship under construction in Mobile, Ala., is planned for service between here and the Big Island in 2009.
 At the center of the ferry dispute is whether the project should have been subject to an environmental assessment before the operator, Hawaii Superferry Inc., began service.
 If an assessment found that the ferry could damage the islands' unique flora and fauna, an environmental impact statement would be required, which would mean scientific studies, public hearings and the possibility of legal challenges.
 But the controversy, which continues to dominate headlines here, is also about the changing nature of life in Hawaii and the impact of powerful economic interests.
 ''It's symbolic politics,'' says Ira Rohter, a professor of political science at the University of Hawaii. ''Hawaii used to be a special place, and now it looks more and more like California. Most people feel we need a ferry, but they also want some control over how it's going to change their lives.''
 Hawaii Superferry's chief executive, John L. Garibaldi, 54, and a resident of Hawaii for 26 years, said that when he began the project five years ago, state officials told him there was no need for an environmental assessment, a position that was upheld by two court rulings. 
 ''We felt we were on pretty solid ground,'' Mr. Garibaldi said. 
 Had an assessment been needed, he said, it would have posed an unacceptable risk for Hawaii Superferry's main equity investor, J. F. Lehman and Company, which put up $85 million, and for the federal Maritime Administration, which provided a loan guarantee of $140 million. The state provided $40 million, which the company is required to repay, to build fixed ramps for the ferry at the four island ports.
 Mr. Garibaldi's argument was met with skepticism by the ferry's main opponent, the Sierra Club. ''Nonsense,'' said Jeff Mikulina, the head of the club's Hawaii chapter. ''This process happens all the time, and it does not prevent a lot of businesses from expanding. It simply ensures that businesses comply with environmental laws.''
 In 2005, the Sierra Club and two local groups filed suit in State District Court on Maui, demanding that an environmental assessment be done. But the state and Hawaii Superferry argued successfully that no such assessment was required. A federal court turned down a separate lawsuit by the same plaintiffs.
 ''From a legal standpoint, it was a close call,'' said Ed Case, a lawyer and a Democrat who represented most of Oahu and the neighbor islands in Congress from 2003 to 2007. ''But as a matter of public policy, a project of this magnitude, even though it's going to benefit the state as a whole, needs to go through a public vetting process.''
 Fast ferries slice through the waters around the world -- the Mediterranean, the English Channel and Hong Kong harbor, to name a few. But Hawaii is different.
 The islands are a major calving ground for humpback whales, which are protected under the Endangered Species Act and which tend to be killed by fast ferries more than by slower ships. 
 Environmentalists are also concerned that the many vehicles the boat can carry will allow mongooses, which have severely depleted Oahu's bird population, to stow away and be carried to Kauai, which has none. 
 In addition, the ferries threaten many local businesses, said James H. Wright, a corporate lawyer and longtime observer of Hawaii's economy, like the inter-island shipping company, three local airlines and car rental companies.
 ''It will also change the dynamics of nonunion trades,'' Mr. Wright said. ''Now, it's more expensive to get work like roofing or plumbing done in the neighbor islands. But with the Superferry, Oahu tradesmen will be able to take their trucks on the ferry and undercut the locals.''
 The Superferry will also carry S.U.V.'s and trailered boats, allowing Oahu fishermen frustrated by the island's depleted waters to gain access to the richer grounds of Maui and Kauai -- to the discontent of local fisherman. Those boats might also involuntarily carry bits of Eucheuma seaweed, which is devastating Oahu's biggest bay, to the neighboring islands.
 All these changes seemed inevitable until Aug, 23, five days before the ferry was to begin operation, when Hawaii's highest court overturned the Maui court ruling and found that the Superferry did require an environmental assessment. But the State Supreme Court did not say whether it could operate during the assessment process.
 Mr. Garibaldi then pushed up the Superferry's launching by two days and slashed fares for cars and passengers to $5, about a tenth of the posted price. On Aug. 26, a nearly full ferry sailed to Maui, then to Kauai and back to Honolulu. But the next day, when it tried to return to Kauai and despite the efforts of the Coast Guard to clear its path, several dozen swimmers, kayakers and surfers prevented the vessel from docking, forcing it to return here after a two-hour standoff.
 A judge then issued a temporary order forbidding the Superferry to sail again to Maui until the environment assessment issue is resolved. Hawaii Superferry stopped service to Kauai, Mr. Garibaldi said, until the Coast Guard could guarantee safe docking there. 
 In the meantime, Mr. Garibaldi said his company had done its utmost to address environmental concerns. ''We have special bottom paint that prevents micro-organisms from attaching, we don't discharge any fluids at sea, we have whale watchers with night-vision gear,'' he said. ''Are people using the environmental laws to take care of the environment or because they don't want change?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With protesters and a state boat nearby, the Hawaii Superferry sat outside Nawiliwili Harbor in Lihue, Hawaii, last week. At left, John L. Garibaldi, chief executive of the ferry system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS FUJIMOTO/GARDEN ISLAND, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RONEN ZILBERMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 A protester, Bonnie Bias, of Maui stood in front of the terminal entrance to the Hawaii Superferry in Wailuku, Maui. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCO GARCIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); FERRIES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (87%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); SHIPBUILDING (78%); ADMIRALTY LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: J F LEHMAN & CO INC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); LIHUE, HI, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (55%) HAWAII, USA (99%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



103 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Studies Say Newer Stents For Arteries Show Promise

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
Makers of stents and many cardiologists who implant them said yesterday that reports at this year's major meeting of European cardiologists bolstered their confidence in the safety of the newer drug-coated versions of the devices, which are used to prop open coronary arteries.
 ''It's clear that the benefits outweigh the risks,'' said Dr. Bonnie H. Weiner, a cardiologist in Worcester, Mass., who is the president of the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, the leading professional society in the United States for such specialists. ''The data this year is much more consistent with people's clinical experience.'' 
 Two major studies reported at last year's meeting of the European group, in Barcelona, raised questions about the safety of the drug-coated stents and helped cause a decline in their use. 
 The findings this year were far from decisive enough to end all debate about when to use the newer drug-coated stents rather than older and cheaper bare metal versions -- or whether all stents are used in too many cases when drugs or bypass surgery would serve patients better. 
 But they may help halt the decline in stent sales, which hit nearly $6 billion globally last year but have since fallen sharply. They are forecast to be as much as $1 billion lower this year in the United States alone. 
 Shares in Boston Scientific, the leader in the domestic market, rose 37 cents, or nearly 3 percent, to $13.20 in trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange. The company, based in Natick, Mass., recently reported second-quarter drug-coated stent sales of $437 million, down from $637 million in the 2006 quarter.
 The sales decline represented both fewer procedures and more use of the bare metal stents, which were associated with lower risks of clots forming in them long after implantation. The main advantage of the drug-coated stents has been that they do a better job of keeping the arteries open, which reduces the potential risks and costs of repeat procedures. 
 The device makers' best news from the five-day meeting in Vienna, which ends today, came Sunday from Dr. Stefan K. James, who reported that Swedes who received newer drug-coated stents did not run a higher risk of death and heart attacks when four years of data was considered. That finding is contrary to shorter-term data reported by Dr. James and his colleagues in March in The New England Journal of Medicine and at a safety meeting last December run by the United States Food and Drug Administration.
 The Swedish data comes from a registry of the several thousand Swedes who annually get stents. Registry data reflects real-world medicine but is considered harder to interpret and less reliable than data from carefully planned and controlled clinical trials. 
 Cardiologists said that the extra year of Swedish data added a much larger number of patients with drug-coated stents and represented an extra year of experience implanting them. That may have led to better results. 
 At the Vienna meeting yesterday, Dr. Sigmund Silber of Germany reported that no additional cases of late clotting had been reported in a final group of patients completing the five-year follow-up period required in one major clinical trial of the Taxus stent from Boston Scientific. 
 It was the latest study to suggest that the problem of potentially deadly clots forming in drug-coated stents long after they were implanted might not be as serious as many doctors and patients had feared. 
 ''I don't think this changes the fundamentals for the stent market,'' said Timothy B. Nelson, who follows the major stent makers for Piper Jaffray. Mr. Nelson said that none of the studies suggested the drug-coated stents were safer than the older stents and that doctors using them would still have to be very confident that patients would keep taking aspirin and Plavix, a anticlotting medicine. 
 Guidelines call for taking the two drugs for at least a year after receiving a drug-coated stents but many doctors suggest that patients stay on them indefinitely if possible. 
 Another registry report presented yesterday underscored the potential for continued controversy. Dr. Phillip Gabriel Steg, a cardiologist in Paris, summarized data from nearly 2,300 patients who received single stents during major heart attacks at 94 hospitals in North and South America, Europe, New Zealand and Australia. He said that 8.6 percent of those who got drug-coated stents died during the two-year study period, versus 1.6 percent of those who got bare metal stents.
 Cardiologists said that, as in Sweden, longer-term results might change the outcomes. Also, the patients studied were not typical of most of those who get stents. Most patients who undergo angioplasty -- a balloon inflation in the artery to clear a blockage -- followed by stenting do so to gain relief from chest pains and other symptoms of narrowed arteries, not as part of the emergency removal of blockages during a heart attack. 
 That study reflected how angioplasty has become the preferred treatment for patients suffering heart attacks. Another major report presented Monday at the meeting suggested that there was no advantage to giving patients ReoPro, an anticlotting antibody treatment, before or during angioplasty, at least if the procedure is performed within four hours of the onset of symptoms.
 The study, presented by Dr. Stephen Ellis of the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, is one of many to raise doubts about the value of clot-busting or clot-inhibiting drugs as part of heart attack therapy despite the widespread belief among doctors that they should be beneficial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOLOGY (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (79%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (78%); DRUG SAFETY (77%); CLINICAL TRIALS (77%); ANGIOGRAPHY (77%); SALES FIGURES (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN GROUP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (54%)

TICKER: BSX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (54%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



104 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: China's Environment (2 Letters)

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''As China Roars, Pollution Reaches Deadly Extremes'' (front page, Aug. 26) paints a stark picture of China's domestic environmental challenges. The World Wildlife Fund, the first international nongovernmental organization invited to work in China more than 30 years ago, has seen the Yangtze basin impacted by both pollution and water use. 
 How China sources its raw materials is critically important. Our work on global supply chains shows that China's manufacturing footprint may be only 10 percent or less of its overall environmental impact. The other 90 percent is related to deforestation for timber and pulp but also soy, palm oil, minerals and the infrastructure to export them; carbon loss from burning, soil degradation and erosion; and water used to produce thirsty crops.
 As China's global sourcing of raw materials increases, the impacts will increase as well. China, like the United States, needs to find a balance between economic growth and sustainability. Unfortunately, it is not only China that pays a high price for unfettered growth, but also people and environments around the world.
 Defining new ways to sustainably source raw materials and more efficiently manufacture goods holds promise not only for China but for the United States as well. 
 Carter S. Roberts President and Chief Executive, World Wildlife Fund Washington, Aug. 28, 2007
 To the Editor:
 ''As China Roars, Pollution Reaches Deadly Extremes'' makes clear the inherent contradiction between a market-based economy and an authoritarian political system -- the grand Chinese experiment that is surely failing. 
 As the article states, ''China cannot go green, in other words, without political change.'' It is only when China adopts a more democratic political system can the government become truly responsive to the long-term and short-term needs of its population.
 Bruce Sheiman New York, Aug. 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); LAND DEGRADATION (73%); DEFORESTATION (72%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



105 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Cuts Production For Quarter

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
General Motors cut its fourth-quarter production schedule by 10 percent on Tuesday as a tightening credit market caused sales at the Ford Motor Company, Chrysler and even Toyota to decline in August.
 G.M. said it planned to build 107,000 fewer vehicles in the fourth quarter, compared with the quarter in 2006, even though it had managed to increase its sales 5.3 percent in August after giving discounts on full-size pickup trucks and other vehicles. 
 The automaker had 25.9 percent of the United States market last month, its biggest share in more than a year, according to Autodata, an industry statistics company. 
 Bob Carter, group vice president for Toyota Motor Sales USA, said the contracting credit market had not prevented large numbers of buyers from getting car loans, but dealerships were still seeing fewer potential customers browsing the lots. 
 Toyota's sales were down 2.8 percent in August, a rare decline for the Japanese automaker, which has overtaken G.M. to become the world's largest. Its market share fell to 15.8 percent, from 16.1 percent a year earlier.
 ''More than a lack of credit, there is a lack of confidence about where the economy is heading,'' Mr. Carter said. ''Many buyers are tightening their purse strings on big-ticket items such as autos.''
 Sales have particularly dropped in states like California, Nevada and Florida, where the housing market has weakened considerably.
 Jesse Toprak, director of industry analysis at Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying advice to consumers, said: ''They're not sure about the future value of their house so they're postponing purchases, or they may be buying cheaper vehicles. They may also be buying nothing at all and getting a used car instead.''
 Strong sales of fuel-efficient passenger cars, as gasoline prices remained near $3 a gallon in much of the country, helped Honda and Nissan increase their market shares.
 Ford's market share fell to 13.7 percent, excluding three European brands that the company is expected to sell soon, matching its low in July, when the three Detroit automakers combined to fall below 50 percent of the market for the first time.
 Chrysler's sales fell 6.1 percent. Both G.M. and Ford reduced their full-year forecasts for the industry, and overall sales, down 3 percent from January to August, according to Autodata, are on pace to be the lowest since at least 1998.
 Discounts are partly responsible for G.M.'s better-than-expected performance in August. G.M. has been ramping up discounts in an effort to keep Toyota, which has offered sizable rebates and no-interest financing on its Tundra pickup, from eating away at its share of that profitable segment.
 ''We're going to defend that turf,'' said G.M.'s chief sales analyst, Paul Ballew. ''We need to, for the overall health and position of our brands in the marketplace.''
 G.M. also had a good month for some vehicles that had not been discounted, like its new large crossover vehicles: the Buick Enclave, GMC Acadia and Saturn Outlook. The Enclave has the fastest turn rate, or the time at a dealership before being sold, of any General Motors vehicle.
 Ford fared poorly in August, with sales of its passenger cars plummeting 37 percent.
 Mark Fields, president of Ford's Americas division, acknowledged at a dinner with reporters on Aug. 22 that dealership sales had fallen more than executives expected, at a time when Ford was cutting back on less-profitable sales to rental car companies.
 Its chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, who was also at the dinner, expressed concern about the macroeconomic conditions that had hurt the industry this summer.
 ''Our business is really dependent on consumer confidence,'' Mr. Mulally said.
 Ford said its fourth-quarter production would be 5.6 percent higher than in the final months of 2006, when the company cut output by 24 percent, the most since the 1980s.
 Standard & Poor's Equity Research on Tuesday reduced its forecast for full-year sales to 16.2 million units, from 16.3 million, matching Edmunds' and Autodata's projections. In 2006, automakers sold 16.55 million vehicles, and at one point, some had expected the industry to reach 17 million this year.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A chart with an article in Business Day yesterday about fourth-quarter automobile sales in the United States misstated General Motors' sales performance for light vehicles. Sales rose 6.2 percent; they did not fall by that amount. (The 5.3 percent increase cited in the article was for G.M.'s overall sales, including heavy trucks.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHART: The chart shows: How the Industry Fared, How Automakers Fared, and what the Most Popular Cars and Trucks were for the past year. (Source: Autodata) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); STATISTICS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (95%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA INC (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (95%); F (NYSE) (95%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (95%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



106 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 712 words

 BODY:
CUPCAKES ARE OUT School districts across the country have been taking steps to make food in schools healthier because of new federal guidelines and awareness that a growing number of children are overweight. 
 CHINA ON THE OFFENSIVE Beijing has begun a global public relations offensive on food and product safety, but it has also struck back at critics who have called Chinese goods shoddy or dangerous, and highlighted problems with the exports of other nations. [C1.] 
 Mattel announced a recall of 848,000 toys made in China, the company's third recent recall because of hazardous levels of lead paint coating parts of the toys. [C4.] 
 G.M. CUTS PRODUCTION PLANS General Motors cut its fourth-quarter production schedule by 10 percent as a tightening credit market caused sales at Ford Motor, Chrysler and even Toyota to decline in August. G.M. said it planned to build fewer vehicles even though it managed to raise its sales 5.3 percent in August. [C1.] 
 AIRLINES GET A JUMP ON F.A.A.Some airlines, tired of waiting for the Federal Aviation Administration to replace a 50-year-old system of radar and radio beacons, have taken upon themselves to begin using G.P.S. satellites to navigate the air traffic control system. [C1.] 
 NEW DATA SUPPORTS STENTSMakers of stents and many cardiologists who implant them said that reports at this year's major meeting of European cardiologists bolstered their confidence in the safety of the newer, drug-coated versions of the devices. [C4.] 
 U.S. FARMERS HEAD TO MEXICO An increasing number of farmers in the United States who rely on immigrant laborers have been raising crops across the border in Mexico, where there is a stable labor supply and no fears of a crackdown on employers. [A1.] 
 GIFT FROM LOAN COMPANIES 
 A Congressional report suggested that there had been more questionable conduct in the ties between colleges and student loan companies than previously reported, this time involving charitable giving to build business. [A21.] 
 VALENTINO STEPPING DOWN
 The fashion designer Valentino and his partner Giancarlo Giammetti announced that they would resign from the Valentino company they founded in the early 1960s. [C3.] 
 BEYOND GAMES Peter Moore, the new head of the sports division at Electronic Arts, the No. 1 video game publisher, said he wanted EA Sports to become a global sports and entertainment enterprise, competing with the likes of ESPN and Nike. [E2.] 
 MARKETING PENNY STOCKS The promotion of penny stocks, for years a staple of Internet spam and ''boiler rooms,'' has burst forth in splashy ads in major newspapers. Advertising. [C3.] 
 BUSINESS 2.0 TO CLOSE Business 2.0, a monthly magazine about the new economy, will be shut down rather than sold, its owners at Time Inc. have decided. [C2.] 
 NBC TURNS TO AMAZON NBC Universal deepened its relationship with Amazon's digital video download service after a dispute with Apple over the pricing of television shows on iTunes. [C3.] 
 VENTANA TO ANNOUNCE A DEAL Ventana Medical Systems is expected to announce today that it will acquire Spring Bioscience for $28.9 million as it battles a hostile takeover offer. [C10.] 
 HOPES GROW FOR A RATE CUT Wall Street extended its rebound after dips in manufacturing growth and construction spending raised investors' hopes for an interest rate reduction. [C10.] 
 WHERE SIZE IS NOT AN ISSUE Finding a place to tie up your megayacht can be a problem, but many resorts are now coming to the rescue. Developers are building marinas around the world designed for the superrich and their vessels. The number of giant yachts under construction has increased nearly 60 percent since 2002. [C6.] 
 OLDEST PROFESSION; NEW VENUE Police vice squads are finding that Craigslist, the ubiquitous Web site best known for its employment and for-sale advertisements, is increasingly also used to trade sex for money. [A1.] 
 SICKENED, MAYBE BY POPCORN Diacetyl, which adds the buttery taste to many brands of microwave popcorn, has previously been linked to a serious lung condition found only in people working in popcorn plants, but which now has been found in a Colorado man with a fondness for microwave buttered popcorn. The Food and Drug Administration is investigating. [A23.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FOOD RECALLS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRODUCT RECALLS (77%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (76%); PAINTS & COATINGS (76%); MEDICAL DEVICES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); LEAD (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); STUDENT LOANS (67%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (67%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); CHARITIES (65%); IMMIGRATION (63%); FASHION & APPAREL (61%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); EMAIL MARKETING (60%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (60%); LEAD PAINT (55%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (80%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (71%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%); EA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



107 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Growth Slows; Construction Spending Falls

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Growth in American manufacturing slowed in August while construction spending dropped markedly in July.
 The Institute for Supply Management, a group of corporate purchasing executives, said Tuesday that its index of business activity in manufacturing industries registered 52.9 in August, down from 53.8 the month before. 
 Wall Street economists had been expecting a reading of 53, according to Thomson Financial's International Financing Review. Readings above 50 indicate expansion, and those below 50 indicate contraction.
 The Commerce Department reported that construction spending dropped 0.4 percent in July from June, the weakest showing since a 0.6 percent fall in January. It was a bigger drop than economists had expected and underscored the continued drag on building activity from the slump in housing.
 The supply managers' survey had several positive signs for the economy. Its production, employment and export indexes increased, and while new orders declined, this category remained above 50.
 Manufacturers of farm equipment, aircraft and construction equipment, among others, have benefited from a weak dollar, which makes American goods less expensive abroad.
 ''Over all, this report reinforces other indicators showing modest but uneven growth across the manufacturing sector,'' David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities, wrote in a research note.
 John Shin, senior economist at Lehman Brothers, said investors were encouraged that the supply managers' survey reading remained above 50, despite recent tightening in the credit markets stemming from mortgage troubles.
 In addition, the prices-paid index dropped to 63 from 65, its fourth consecutive month of decline. This could indicate that ''inflation concerns are cooling off,'' Mr. Shin said, which could enable the Federal Reserve to cut benchmark interest rates.
 The market, he said, was discounting the July construction spending data because it was a month old and reflected well-known difficulties in housing.
 Manufacturing exports remained healthy, with new export orders increasing to a reading of 57 from 56.5 in July.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''Construction Spending'' Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (92%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); US DOLLAR (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (73%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (64%); AGRICULTURE (53%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



108 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: October Issue Will Be Last for Time's Business 2.0

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
The latest dot-com casualty comes from the newsstand, not the Internet.
 Business 2.0, a monthly magazine about the new economy, will be shut down rather than sold, its owners at Time Inc. have decided. The publication, which has been suffering from a decline in advertising revenue, will cease publication after its October issue, which will have a cover article on where to invest in a real estate downturn. 
 According to people familiar with Time Inc.'s handling of the matter, Time turned down offers from Mansueto Ventures, owners of the rival magazine Fast Company, and other prospective buyers to acquire the Business 2.0 brand and its circulation list of 600,000 subscribers. 
 Instead, Time Inc. will reassign the editor of Business 2.0, Joshua Quittner, and nine other editorial staff members to Fortune magazine, where they will help with Fortune's technology coverage, conference business and Web site.
 ''I'd be lying if I didn't admit to being heartbroken,'' said Mr. Quittner, who steered the magazine for five and a half years. ''That said, we had a terrific team here and learned a lot. A bunch of us are going on to Fortune, where we'll have an even bigger platform to carry on the good fight.''
 Today, human resources personnel and other executives from Time Inc. will visit the magazine's San Francisco headquarters to formally close its operations, employees there have been told.
 The developments mark the final chapter in the decade-long life of the Business 2.0 brand. The first magazine to be called Business 2.0, a biweekly, made its debut in 1998 and was published by the Future Network, a British media company. Time Warner bought the magazine in 2001 for a reported $68 million and combined its operations with its own fledgling business magazine, eCompany Now.
 The new Business 2.0 came close to breaking even in 2005, but spiraled back into the red this year after the number of advertising pages plunged nearly 40 percent through July, according to the Magazine Publishers of America.
 A report in The New York Times in July that Time Inc. executives were considering closing the magazine mobilized some support among readers, who started a group on the social networking Web site Facebook. Time Inc. then agreed to consider acquisition offers, but ultimately decided that Business 2.0's resources were best added into Fortune. A Time Inc. spokeswoman declined to comment.
 A benefit of the magazine's recent purgatory is that most of its laid-off employees now have other jobs lined up. ''One good thing having our carcass dragged through the streets for the last month is that it gave everyone ample time to find something,'' said one employee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ten editorial staff members from Business 2.0 will join Time Inc.'s Fortune magazine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (95%); TIME WARNER INC (65%); MANSUETO VENTURES LLC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (65%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (65%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



109 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: State and Developer Finish Deal for Resort in Catskills

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
After a seven-year legal and political battle over the fate of some of the most environmentally sensitive land in New York State, Gov. Eliot Spitzer is expected to announce an agreement today to allow an upstate entrepreneur to build a resort with two hotels, a golf course and 259 residences within 20 miles of two of New York City's largest reservoirs. 
 The $400 million project is substantially smaller than the developer's original plan, which would have been one of the largest developments in the New York City watershed and sprawled over nearly 2,000 acres of prime Catskill woodlands. 
 The modified proposal has won the support of New York City officials and several local and national environmental groups, which had long opposed the original plan because of its environmental impact in the Catskills. 
 Under the agreement, the developer has agreed to restrict all construction to 620 acres on the western side of his land and to sell most of the eastern portion -- more than 1,200 acres of pristine forest -- to the Trust for Public Land, a national nonprofit organization, for about $14 million. The trust would then sell the land back to the state, and it would become protected forest preserve. 
 The developer, Dean Gitter, also agreed to limit the environmental damage by not building on steep slopes, by concentrating all buildings within a compact area and by not using chemical fertilizers or pesticides on the 18-hole golf course. 
 ''In the context of the scope of the watershed, this is environmentally safe development,'' Mr. Spitzer said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''And it has a plus, in that it puts more acreage into the protected zone.'' 
 The project, he said, would bring economic development to an area of the state that desperately needs it. Building the resort would create about 1,800 construction jobs over eight years, provide 450 permanent full-time jobs and generate about $4 million a year in property and sales taxes, according to Mr. Spitzer. 
 ''This is very real economic development for a region that has seen better times,'' Mr. Spitzer said. He called the scaled-down development plan ''a win for everyone.''
 Eric A. Goldstein, a senior lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group that helped draft the agreement, called the smaller development proposal ''infinitely more sensible and environmentally sensitive than the one unveiled seven years ago.'' 
 ''In a perfect world, we wouldn't have any construction on forested lands that drain into the nation's largest unfiltered water supply,'' he added. ''This is not a perfect solution, but it's a shot of adrenaline for watershed protection and smart growth.'' 
 The project, called the Belleayre Resorts at Catskill Park, would be on the western edge of the state-run Belleayre Mountain Ski Center. The state has said it will expand and modernize the center, including restoring the adjacent Highmount ski area, which will be bought from Mr. Gitter. 
 Many local residents have opposed the huge project, fearing it would overwhelm the rural character of the region and its quiet hamlets. But many officials, like Robert G. Cross Jr., supervisor of Shandaken Town, where part of Belleayre would be built, have been vigorous supporters.
 ''This project, downsized as it is now, is something that is needed for the employment of local citizens,'' Mr. Cross said, ''and it is something that is even more desperately needed for the expansion of our tax base.'' 
 Mr. Gitter has long contended that in order for the project to be economically viable, it had to be grand enough in scale to attract tourists from New York City -- 120 miles away -- who have many other options for their leisure time. Mr. Gitter stuck to that position even as the project became mired in administrative law proceedings and extended reviews, including a 6,720-page environmental impact statement.
 But Mr. Gitter said Mr. Spitzer's environmental staff, led by Judith Enck, the deputy secretary for the environment, made a strong commitment to resolving the standoff. More than a dozen meetings were held, and the turning point came, he said, when the state ''offered us a number of things that we found intriguing.'' 
 The state said it would extend a ski trail from the existing slopes at Belleayre to the new resort, enhancing the project's attractiveness for skiers. And New York City agreed to allow the entire development to hook up to an underused sewage treatment plant run by the city in nearby Pine Hill. 
 In exchange, Mr. Gitter had to forgo all development in the more environmentally sensitive eastern portion of his holdings, where storm water would run into the nearby Ashokan Reservoir. He eliminated one golf course, reduced the number of housing units (by 30 percent), hotel rooms (by 7.5 percent) and miles of new road (by 60 percent).
 ''Did I get everything I wanted? No,'' said Mr. Gitter, who is 72 and has lived in the area for 40 years. ''Did I enjoy every minute of the legal process? No. But the result is an extremely positive move for the area, and I can live with it.'' 
 The proposed development site sits at the peak of a mountain ridge that drains on the east into Ulster County and the Ashokan Reservoir and on the west into Delaware County and the Pepacton Reservoir. Those two bodies of water are important parts of New York City's vast water supply system, which provides drinking water for the city's eight million residents and for one million more people in communities along the way. 
 Emily Lloyd, commissioner of the city's Department of Environmental Protection, which runs the water system, said the development plan provided adequate protection for the city's water, while also allowing the kind of economic growth that the city promised local communities in a 1997 agreement. 
 ''I don't think the agreement really opens the way for large-scale development in the watershed,'' Ms. Lloyd said. ''But it does say that working together we can recognize what does and does not adversely affect our water.'' 
 Mr. Gitter said he was confident that he could break ground next fall and open the hotels in late 2010.
 Tom Alworth, executive director of the Catskill Center for Conservation and Development, a private group, said some local residents, even some local environmental groups, might not embrace the compromise development agreement. But he said that after seven years of conflict, it was ''a victory for both the environment and for the local economy.''

GRAPHIC: MAP: Belleayre Resorts would add jobs to a distressed region.(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RESORTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); GOLF (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); PESTICIDES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); PLANT CONSERVATION (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); CITIES (71%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (70%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FERTILIZERS (69%); WILDERNESS (67%); INTERVIEWS (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



110 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: What Is John Dingell Really Up To?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ANN ARBOR, Mich.
 John Dingell, wearing a seersucker suit perfect for the summer heat, was sitting on stage inside the Pioneer High School auditorium on a recent afternoon, waiting for the start of a town hall meeting he had called to discuss global warming.
 It's fair to say that during Mr. Dingell's 52 years in the House of Representatives, he has often been the congressman representing the American automobile industry. He helped win a bailout for Chrysler in 1979, and he has fought nearly every regulation you can imagine, be it on air bags, tailpipe emissions or gas mileage. Back in the 1980s, when a senator from Nevada tried to raise fuel economy standards, Mr. Dingell responded by introducing a bill to create a giant new nuclear waste dump in Nevada.
 Lately, however, he has been singing a different tune. After years of skepticism, he's started talking about the fact that the planet is getting hotter. Most remarkably, Mr. Dingell -- a Democrat and the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee -- is promising to introduce a bill in coming weeks that would create a carbon tax. 
 A tax on carbon emissions, covering everything from gasoline to electricity use, is the climate solution that economists and environmentalists have long dreamed of because it's probably the most powerful, least bureaucratic way to discourage pollution. It has been favored by everyone from Al Gore to Alan Greenspan -- everyone, it seems, except a single elected official of any significance. Until Mr. Dingell came along. 
 For understandable reasons, though, the economists and environmentalists aren't quite sure what to make of his conversion. They suspect that he is really a double agent, cynically supporting an infeasible solution -- a big tax increase -- as a way to maintain the status quo. But they also wonder whether they may be able to use him even if he is trying to use them.
 So when I heard that Mr. Dingell was holding a town hall meeting on climate change in Ann Arbor, probably the most liberal corner of his suburban Detroit district, I flew out to Michigan to see the show.
 The first thing to greet the 200 or so people who showed up at the high school was a group of young Greenpeace members wearing and handing out bright red T-shirts that said, ''Stop Global Warming.'' Inside the auditorium, one seat in the front row was taken up by a sign that read, ''End Gas Vehicles, End Oil Wars'' (a slogan that doesn't seem likely to create a mass movement in Michigan). 
 Even though this was largely Mr. Dingell's show, the criticism didn't stop when the speeches began. One of the people introducing him was Hugh McDiarmid Jr. of the Michigan Environmental Council, and he promptly, if politely, attacked the congressman. Mr. McDiarmid said his group was disappointed in Mr. Dingell for recently opposing yet another bill to raise fuel economy standards. ''Words, good intentions and political games no longer count,'' Mr. McDiarmid said. The crowd erupted. 
 There is no question that Mr. Dingell has given people ample reason to doubt his sincerity. The biggest head scratcher came during a July interview on C-Span, when he said that he seriously doubted that ''the American people are willing to pay what this is really going to cost them.'' He would propose a carbon tax, he added, ''just to sort of see how people really feel about this.''
 Since then, though, he has explained away the interview by saying that it's the job of political leaders like him to persuade Americans to change their minds. He has also been offering eloquent, full-throated defenses of the tax. And here's the thing: he has a really good argument.
 There are two main options for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The first is a tax, which raises the cost of those emissions and, in doing so, nudges businesses and families to use less energy. The second is a cap-and-trade system. Under it, the government caps overall emissions, hands out emissions permits to companies and then allows companies that figure out how to use less energy to sell their permits to companies that use more. 
 Devised correctly, a cap-and-trade system could certainly work. But there are enormous complexities. As Gregory Mankiw, the Republican economist, has pointed out, companies that use the most energy today are likely to be given the largest number of permits, essentially rewarding them for their prior pollution. Some companies may even deliberately use more energy in the next few years, to assure themselves additional permits. Given all the issues, a cap-and-trade system could end up being ''ineffective or even counterproductive,'' Lawrence Summers, who was a Treasury secretary under Bill Clinton, has warned.
 A solution that relies at least partly on a carbon tax would be simpler, and the revenue it generates would go to the government, rather than to companies. The government could then turn around and cut, say, payroll taxes to cushion the blow of more expensive gasoline and home heating. 
 A small number of environmentalists have come to believe that Mr. Dingell's newfound climate zeal is for real. One of them, surprisingly, is Lana Pollack, the president of the Michigan Environment Council, who helped write Mr. McDiarmid's introduction. 
 She points out that Mr. Dingell has a history of blocking bills, like the Clean Air Act, only to help pass them when the political landscape changes. ''He has survived 50 years substantially because he does listen to his constituencies,'' Ms. Pollack said. He has changed his stance on global warming, she figures, because he sees that voters are worried about it and because he wants to make sure the auto industry doesn't bear the brunt of a new policy.
 I'm more skeptical, at least about the odds of Mr. Dingell's putting the full weight of his committee behind a carbon tax. The details of his plan -- like using the tax revenue to shore up Social Security, rather than to cut other taxes -- do not seem aimed at building political support for it. 
 That said, it's enormously useful for a powerful House chairman to be acting as a gadfly who points out the weaknesses of the current proposals. A big, broad solution that changes the incentives surrounding energy use really would be far more effective than a hodgepodge of tax credits, new gas mileage standards and other rules that apply to individual industries. If nothing else, it's also enormously useful that Mr. Dingell is no longer suggesting, as he did just eight months ago, that the scientific consensus on global warming may be a ''great error.''
 After the town hall meeting was over -- and he had listened to a couple of hours of questions about timed traffic lights, nuclear power and the possibility of impeaching President Bush -- Mr. Dingell sat down in a dark area behind the stage. I asked him whether Mr. Gore, who has been both a Dingell nemesis and ally at various times, had been right for all those years he was pointing out what was happening to the earth's climate.
 ''I think a cold statement on that point would be yes,'' Mr. Dingell replied.
 And would it have been easier to solve the problem if we had started earlier?
 ''What's the saying? The saddest words in the English language -- 'might have been.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative John Dingell of Michigan called a town hall meeting on global warming. (pg. C8)(PHOTOGRAPH BY LON HORWEDEL/ANN ARBOR NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (54%)

PERSON: JOHN DINGELL (93%); AL GORE (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



111 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Short on Labor, Farmers in U.S. Shift to Mexico

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: CELAYA, Mexico 

 BODY:
Steve Scaroni, a farmer from California, looked across a luxuriant field of lettuce here in central Mexico and liked what he saw: full-strength crews of Mexican farm workers with no immigration problems.
 Farming since he was a teenager, Mr. Scaroni, 50, built a $50 million business growing lettuce and broccoli in the fields of California, relying on the hands of immigrant workers, most of them Mexican and many probably in the United States illegally.
 But early last year he began shifting part of his operation to rented fields here. Now some 500 Mexicans tend his crops in Mexico, where they run no risk of deportation. 
 ''I'm as American red-blood as it gets,'' Mr. Scaroni said, ''but I'm tired of fighting the fight on the immigration issue.'' 
 A sense of crisis prevails among American farmers who rely on immigrant laborers, more so since immigration legislation in the United States Senate failed in June and the authorities announced a crackdown on employers of illegal immigrants. An increasing number of farmers have been testing the alternative of raising crops across the border where there is a stable labor supply, growers and lawmakers in the United States and Mexico said.
 Western Growers, an association representing farmers in California and Arizona, conducted an informal telephone survey of its members in the spring. Twelve large agribusinesses that acknowledged having operations in Mexico reported a total of 11,000 workers here. 
 ''It seems there is a bigger rush to Mexico and elsewhere,'' said Tom Nassif, the Western Growers president, who said Americans were also farming in countries in Central America.
 Precise statistics are not readily available on American farming in Mexico, because growers seek to maintain a low profile for their operations abroad. But Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, displayed a map on the Senate floor in July locating more than 46,000 acres that American growers were cultivating in just two Mexican states, Guanajuato and Baja California. 
 ''Farmers are renting land in Mexico,'' Ms. Feinstein said. ''They don't want us to know that.'' 
 She predicted that more American farmers would move to Mexico for the ready work force and lower wages. Ms. Feinstein favored a measure in the failed immigration bill that would have created a new guest worker program for agriculture and a special legal status for illegal immigrant farm workers. 
 In the past, some Americans have planted south of the border to escape spiraling land prices and to ensure year-round deliveries of crops they can produce only seasonally in the United States. But in the last three years, Mr. Nassif and other growers said, labor force uncertainties have become a major reason farmers have shifted to Mexico.
 While there are benefits for Mexico, as American farmers bring the latest technology and techniques to its crop-producing regions, American farm state economists say thousands of middle-class jobs supporting agriculture are being lost in the United States. Some lawmakers in the United States also point to security risks when food for Americans is increasingly produced in foreign countries.
 Tramping through one of his first lettuce crops near Celaya, an agribusiness hub in Guanajuato, Mr. Scaroni is more candid than many farmers about his move here. He had made six trips to Washington, he said, to plead with Congress to provide more legal immigrants for agriculture.
 ''I have a customer base that demands we produce and deliver product every day,'' he said. ''They don't want to hear the excuses.'' He acknowledges that wages are much lower in Mexico; he pays $11 a day here as opposed to about $9 an hour in California. But without legal workers in California, he said, ''I have no choice but to offshore my operation.''
 The Department of Labor has reported that 53 percent of the 2.5 million farm workers in the United States are illegal immigrants; growers and labor unions say as much as 70 percent of younger field hands are illegal.
 As the American authorities tightened the border in recent years, seasonal migration from Mexico has been interrupted, demographers say. Many illegal farm laborers, reluctant to leave the United States, have abandoned the arduous migrant work of agriculture for year-round construction and service jobs. Labor shortages during harvests have become common. 
 Some academics say warnings of a farm labor debacle are exaggerated. ''By and large the most dire predictions don't come true,'' said Philip Martin, an agricultural economist at the University of California, Davis. ''There is no doubt that some people can't count on workers showing up as much as they used to,'' Professor Martin said. ''But most of the places that are crying the loudest are exceptional cases.'' 
 But some recent studies suggest that strains on the farm-labor supply are real. Stephen Levy, an economist at the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy, in Palo Alto, compared unemployed Americans with illegal immigrant workers in the labor market. ''The bottom line,'' Mr. Levy said, ''is that most unemployed workers are not available to replace fired, unauthorized immigrant workers,'' in part because very few of the unemployed are in farm work. 
 Mr. Scaroni said he started growing in Mexico reluctantly, after seeing risks to his American operations. At peak season his California company, Valley Harvesting and Packing, employs more than 1,000 immigrants, and all have filled out the required federal form, known as an I-9, with Social Security numbers and other identity information. 
 ''From my perspective everyone that works for me is legal,'' he said. But based on farm labor statistics, he surmises that many of his workers presented false documents. 
 An impatient man in perpetual motion, Mr. Scaroni marches through his fields shouting orders to Mexican crew leaders in rough Spanish while he negotiates to buy new trucks in Mexico on a walkie-talkie in one hand and to sell produce in the United States on a cellphone in the other. 
 Frustrated with experts who say that farmers with labor problems should mechanize, he plunges his hands into side-by-side lettuce plants, pulling out one crisp green head and one that is soggy and brown. After his company invested $1 million in research, he said, ''We haven't come up with a way to tell a machine what's a good head and what's a bad head.''
 He also dismisses arguments that he could attract workers by raising wages, saying Americans do not take the sweaty, seasonal field jobs. ''I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that if I did that I would raise my costs and I would not have a legal work force,'' Mr. Scaroni said. 
 Still, transferring to Mexico has been costly, he said. Since the greens he cuts here go to bagged salads in supermarkets in the United States, he follows the same food-safety practices as he does in California. Renting fallow Mexican land, he enclosed his fields in fences and installed drip-irrigation systems for the filtered water he uses.
 He trained his Mexican field crews to wear hair nets, arm sheaths and sanitized gloves, and held drills on the correct use of portable toilets. In the clean-scrubbed cooling house, women in white caps scrutinize produce for every stray hair and dirt spot.
 By now about one-fifth of Mr. Scaroni's operation is on five farms approaching 2,000 acres in Guanajuato. A few of his Mexican employees came from California, like Antonio Martinez Aguilar, a field manager who worked there for 15 years but could never get immigration documents. 
 ''I tried everything, but there wasn't anything anyone could do to make me legal,'' Mr. Martinez said. 
 Negotiated among growers and unions over seven years, the agricultural measure in the failed immigration bill, known as AgJobs, had wider bipartisan support than the bill as a whole, lawmakers said. Its supporters have said they hope to bring it before Congress this fall, perhaps attached to the farm bill. [It was hurt by last week's resignation of Senator Larry E. Craig, the Idaho Republican who was one of its chief sponsors.]
 Mr. Scaroni expects to recover his start-up costs because of the lower wages he pays here, although he says Mexican workers are less productive in their own country. 
 ''It's not a cake walk down here,'' he said. ''At least I know the one thing I don't have to worry about is losing my labor force because of an immigration raid.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers harvest broccoli in central Mexico for Valley Harvesting and Packing, which moved some operations from California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET JARMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 About 500 people work for Steve Scaroni's farming operation in Mexico, where he moved after he became discouraged over prospects for change in immigration laws in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET JARMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); FARM LABOR (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); DEPORTATION (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LEGISLATION (72%)

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



112 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: In Australia, Bush Finds An Enthusiastic Supporter

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Wednesday, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
As lawmakers in Washington debate the future of his troop buildup in Iraq, President Bush flew halfway around the world and wound up with an endorsement from at least one leader who supports his policy: John Howard, the prime minister of Australia.
 ''We believe that progress is being made in Iraq, difficult though it is,'' Mr. Howard declared at a news conference with the president here, where the two are to attend an economic summit meeting of Asian nations later this week. ''And we do not believe this is the time to be setting any proposals for a scaling down of Australian forces.'' 
 The meeting is supposed to focus on trade and climate change. But, with the president fresh off his surprise trip to Anbar Province, where he suggested he would draw down troops, he quickly turned the topic to Iraq, using his introductory remarks at the news conference to deliver what amounted to a lengthy soliloquy in defense of his policy.
 ''Is it perfect?'' he asked, referring to the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, whose efforts at national reconciliation have been deemed a failure by congressional Democrats. ''Absolutely not. Is there more work to be done? You bet there is.''
 After saying the Iraqi Parliament had passed 60 laws, the president took a dig at the Democratic-controlled Congress, adding, ''It's more than our legislature passed.''
 Australia, which has more than 1,500 troops in Iraq, is among the major members of what Mr. Bush once called ''the coalition of the willing.'' As he welcomed Mr. Bush on Wednesday, Mr. Howard declared, ''The United States president is always welcome in our country.'' 
 But Mr. Bush may not have felt especially welcome as he arrived in Sydney, where protesters calling themselves the Stop Bush Coalition are planning a major protest for Saturday, and the city is buttoned down like a fortress. Many Sydneysiders, as the city's residents call themselves, have fled town for the week, and the city's major landmarks, like its famed opera house, are nearly impossible to get to. 
 When an Australian journalist raised the issue of the heightened security with Mr. Bush, the president took the unusual step of apologizing.
 ''Look, I don't want to come to a community and have them say, what a pain it is to have the American president,'' he said, adding, ''I apologize to the Australian people if I've caused this inconvenience.''
 The reporter replied that he wasn't blaming Mr. Bush personally. ''I guess I must be feeling pretty guilty,'' Mr. Bush said.
 When he meets with a foreign leader who has supported the war, Mr. Bush typically uses the occasion to deliver a public thank you. Rarely does a foreign leader so enthusiastically embrace the Iraq cause in return.
 Declaring that ''our commitment to Iraq remains,'' Mr. Howard used language almost identical to that of Mr. Bush when he said troop withdrawals would be ''not based on any calendar, but based on conditions on the ground.''
 But just as Tony Blair, the former British prime minister, paid a political price for supporting the war, so too has Mr. Howard, and his appearance with Mr. Bush will likely do him little political good as he fights a tough re-election challenge from Kevin Rudd, the Labor Party candidate and a staunch opponent of the war.
 Mr. Bush will meet with Mr. Rudd on Thursday, but he has made little secret of whom he favors in the Australian race. ''John Howard has been behind in the polls before and he's won,'' the president told an Australian journalist, David Speers, in an interview in Washington last week. Of Mr. Rudd, he said, ''He doesn't know me, and I don't know him, and so I look forward to sharing my views.''
 The economic summit meeting draws together leaders of 21 nations, including China, Japan, Russia and South Korea, a mix that last year put intense focus on the negotiations to pressure North Korea into abandoning its nuclear weapons program. With the North agreeing to shut down its main nuclear reactor, Mr. Bush said those efforts are ''making good progress.''
 But the lead negotiator with North Korea, Christopher R. Hill, said here that North Korea had not been taken off the list of countries the United States considers state sponsors of terrorism, despite North Korean claims to the contrary. 
 ''No, they haven't been taken off the terrorism list,'' Mr. Hill said, speaking to reporters after he arrived here late Tuesday night, though he went on to say that if the North moves forward in good faith, the United States would consider a status change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WRITERS (60%); OPERA (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); JOHN HOWARD (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



113 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Wealthy Investors Circling the For-Sale Sign at Wrigley

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Five months after the Tribune Company announced plans to sell the Chicago Cubs, the first-place club is making more noise on the field than its corporate owners are in a slow-moving sale process.
 But an emerging lineup of deep-pocketed bidders has put the Tribune Company in a strong position to receive a record sale price for the franchise.
 Tribune put the team and its historic ballpark, Wrigley Field, on the block in April, saying it would sell the team by the end of the year. But its bankers have yet to send out detailed financial information to prospective bidders and are not expected to do so until mid-September, jeopardizing that timetable. 
 A source familiar with the sale process said there is no chance of the sale being completed this year; a more realistic target is baseball's opening day in 2008. The source, who declined to be identified out of concern of disrupting the process, said ''five or six legitimate groups'' have emerged as would-be buyers.
 Tribune, which is in the process of going private in an $8.2 billion buyout being led by the real estate magnate Sam Zell, isn't talking about dates, names or numbers. A spokesman for Tribune, Gary Weitman, said the company did not want the process to be a distraction to the season.
 Currently, the Cubs are clinging to a slim -- and rare -- lead in the National League Central and trying to get to the World Series for the first time since 1945. They have not won a championship since 1908.
 That legacy has not scared off potential buyers.
 Sports economists said the interest of several billionaires and other well-heeled investors made it a good bet the price would exceed the record $660 million paid for the Boston Red Sox in 2002 by a group headed by the billionaire commodities trader John Henry.
 The Cubs' package includes not only Wrigley Field but Tribune's 25 percent stake in the Comcast sports channel in Chicago, fueling widespread speculation the total could reach $1 billion.
 The Internet billionaire and Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban and the family of TD Ameritrade Holding's founder Joe Ricketts are among those interested in purchasing the Cubs. 
 But they aren't considered the favorites. That role falls, at least publicly, to a powerhouse group of Chicago-based investors headed by John Canning, chairman of the private equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners and a longtime friend and business partner of the baseball commissioner, Bud Selig.
 Canning, who would have to sell his 11 percent ownership in the Milwaukee Brewers if the bid is successful, put together a group that includes Andrew McKenna, the chairman of McDonald's, and about two dozen members of Chicago's business community. McKenna was the Cubs' chairman from 1982-84.
 ''I think it's very clear at this point that he's the favorite,'' the sports economist Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College, said of Canning. ''He's got a strong group and he's got very good connections.''
 Another interested bidder, Donald Levin, the owner of the Chicago Wolves minor league hockey team, said he was confident the ''best buyer'' would prevail despite any Selig-Canning ties.
 ''I would think it would not behoove the commissioner of baseball to pick somebody early,'' he said. ''You have to satisfy the 29 other owners in order to get it.''
 Tribune doesn't have total control over who ends up with the Cubs; major league team owners must sign off on the purchase. In the Red Sox sale, Henry didn't even submit the highest bid.
 One die-hard fan and business owner is organizing a fan-based effort to buy the Cubs, based on the model of the Green Bay Packers. Eric Majeski formed 4 Fans Sake to get his message out and round up commitments. But he has a long way to go to match the financial backing of Canning or Cuban. As of Tuesday, his Web site said 479 fans have pledged $2,377,350.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (73%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (50%)

COMPANY: TRIBUNE CO (CHICAGO IL) (85%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (52%); MADISON DEARBORN PARTNERS LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (84%)

TICKER: AMTD (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (79%); MARK CUBAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



114 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2672 words

HEADLINE: In Turmoil of '68, Clinton Found a New Voice

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
In September 1968, Hillary Diane Rodham, role model and student government president, was addressing Wellesley College freshmen girls -- back when they were still called ''girls'' -- about methods of protest. It was a hot topic in that overheated year of what she termed ''confrontation politics from Chicago to Czechoslovakia.''
 ''Dynamism is a function of change,'' Ms. Rodham said in her speech. ''On some campuses, change is effected through nonviolent or even violent means. Although we too have had our demonstrations, change here is usually a product of discussion in the decision-making process.''
 Her handwritten remarks -- on file in the Wellesley archives -- abound with abbreviations, crossed-out sentences and scrawled reinsertions, as if composed in a hurry. Yet Ms. Rodham's words are neatly contained between tight margins. She took care to stay within the lines, even when they were moving so far and fast in 1968. While student leaders at some campuses went to the barricades, Ms. Rodham was attending teach-ins, leading panel discussions and joining steering committees. She preferred her ''confrontation politics'' cooler. 
 ''She was not an antiwar radical trying to create a mass movement,'' said Ellen DuBois, who, with Ms. Rodham, was an organizer of a student strike that April. ''She was very much committed to working within the political system. From a student activist perspective, there was a significant difference.''
 As the nation boiled over Vietnam, civil rights and the slayings of two charismatic leaders, Ms. Rodham was completing a sweeping intellectual, political and stylistic shift. She came to Wellesley as an 18-year-old Republican, a copy of Barry Goldwater's right-wing treatise, ''The Conscience of a Conservative,'' on the shelf of her freshman dorm room. She would leave as an antiwar Democrat whose public rebuke of a Republican senator in a graduation speech won her notice in Life magazine as a voice for her generation.
 Hillary Rodham Clinton's course was set, in large part, during the supercharged year of 1968. ''There was a sense of tremendous change, internationally and here at home which impacted greatly how I thought about things,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a telephone interview about that period, which encompassed the second half of her junior and first half of her senior years.
 It was a time at once disorienting and clarifying, a period that would reinforce the future senator and presidential candidate's suspicion of ''emotional politics'' while stoking her frustration with what she considered the passivity of her classmates. 
 Her political itinerary that year resembles a frenzied travelogue of youthful contradiction. She might have been the only 20-year-old in America who worked on the antiwar presidential campaign of Senator Eugene McCarthy in New Hampshire that winter and for the hawkish Republican congressman Melvin Laird in Washington that summer. 
 She attended both the Republican National Convention in Miami (bunking at the Fontainebleu Hotel, ordering room service for the first time -- cereal and a daintily wrapped peach) and the Democratic donnybrook in Chicago (smelling tear gas at Grant Park, watching a toilet fly out the window of the Hilton hotel). 
 The day after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was slain, she joined a demonstration in Post Office Square in Boston, returning to campus wearing a black armband.
 ''People become experiences,'' Ms. Rodham wrote about all the ferment in a Feb. 23 letter to John Peavoy, a friend from high school. She added later, ''The whole society is brittle.'' 
 Looking back, it is easy to see that ambitious political science major in the first lady, United States senator and, now, presidential candidate she would become. She campaigned meticulously in student elections, going door to door and dorm to dorm. She wrote thank-you notes to professors who helped her. 
 In the bustle of her excursions, she showed the zeal of an emerging political junkie. And, while outspoken and often blunt, Ms. Rodham was hardly a bomb-thrower. She was, then as now, dedicated to cerebral policy debates, government process and carefully calibrated positions.
 ''Her opinions are mature and responsible, rather than emotional and one-sided,'' Alan Schechter, a political science professor at Wellesley, wrote in a law school recommendation that year for Ms. Rodham.
 A Goldwater Girl
 Ms. Rodham had arrived at Wellesley in the fall of 1965, a decorated Girl Scout and teacher's pet from a Republican household in the Chicago suburb of Park Ridge, Ill. She had distributed leaflets for Mr. Goldwater's presidential campaign the previous fall and was determined to rise quickly through the moribund ranks of Wellesley's Young Republicans chapter. 
 As a go-getter freshman, Ms. Rodham was elected president of the group, dutifully recruiting students to help Massachusetts candidates including Edward Brooke, the future United States senator whom she would chastise in a 1969 commencement speech as being out of touch with the concerns of the new graduates. 
 In 1966, her public words were less audacious. ''The girl who doesn't want to go out and shake hands can type letters or do general office work,'' Ms. Rodham told The Wellesley News in an appeal for Republican volunteers. Soon, though, Ms. Rodham's views began veering leftward. She became opposed to the Vietnam War, putting her increasingly in conflict with her conservative father, Hugh Rodham. 
 ''My opinions on most human conditions are being liberalized,'' Ms. Rodham wrote in 1965 to Don Jones, a progressive Methodist minister from back home who had influenced her thinking. 
 ''The combination of bleeding heart liberal and mental conservative is the inevitable conclusion one arrives at after following and pondering political events,'' she wrote.
 Around campus, Ms. Rodham wore industrial-thick glasses and a uniform of the times -- clunky boots, ratty jeans, a Navy blue pea coat and a succession of turtlenecks, sweater vests and work shirts. (''I look like hell and I could care less'' she wrote to Mr. Peavoy.) She was prone to capricious fashion choices. A suitemate, Connie Hoenk Shapiro, recalled asking why she had bought a particularly dreadful pair of muddy-colored shoes (with clunky 2-inch heels and a square toe) and Ms. Rodham explaining, ''I felt sorry for them and wanted to give them a home.'' 
 Friends say she had a playful streak, was game for road trips to Vermont and Cape Cod, and liked to call people by goofy nicknames. ''She would sometimes refer to herself in the third person as ''the Hill,'' or ''the Hill woman,'' said her Wellesley classmate Nancy Pietrafesa, whose childhood moniker, Peach, sometimes became Peacharoo or Peacharooni in Hill-speak. 
 Unlike many of her peers, she never experimented with illegal drugs, Mrs. Clinton said. She embraced collegiate social rituals, attending mixers, showing up to Harvard football games (often with a book, a friend recalls) and planning a strawberries-and-cream bridal shower atop the Wellesley Bell Tower for a roommate, Johanna Branson.
 Still, she was something of a sponge for all the angst and argument engulfing her generation. Ms. Shapiro recalled going to do errands one afternoon when Ms. Rodham handed her an unopened bottle of perfume she had bought and asked her to return it to the store.
 ''I asked why,'' Ms. Shapiro recalled. ''Her answer was that it was an extravagance she felt guilty about indulging in when there was so much poverty around us. We were increasingly sensitive to issues of what we now call white privilege. '' 
 When Dr. King was killed on the balcony of a Memphis motel on April 4, 1968, Ms. Rodham was devastated. ''I can't take it anymore,'' she screamed after learning the news, her friends recalled. Crying, Ms. Rodham stormed into her dormitory room and hurled her book bag against the wall. Later, she made a telephone call to a close friend, Karen Williamson, the head of the black student organization on campus, to offer sympathy. 
 Ms. Rodham, who met Dr. King after a speech in Chicago in 1962, had admired his methodical approach to social change, favoring it over what she considered the excessively combative methods of groups like the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, or S.N.C.C., pronounced snick.
 ''Just because a person cannot approve of snicks' attitude toward civil disobedience does not mean he wishes to maintain the racial status quo,'' Ms. Rodham wrote as a freshman to Mr. Jones, the Methodist minister. 
 After Dr. King's assassination provoked riots in cities and unrest on campuses, Ms. Rodham worried that protesters would shut down Wellesley (not constructive). She helped organize a two-day strike (more pragmatic) and worked closely with Wellesley's few black students (only 6 in her class of 401) in reaching moderate, achievable change -- such as recruiting more black students and hiring black professors (there had been none). Eschewing megaphones and sit-ins, she organized meetings, lectures and seminars, designed to be educational.
 ''I was rooted in a political approach that understood that you can't just take to the streets and make change in America,'' Mrs. Clinton said in an interview. ''You can't just give a speech and expect people to fall down and agree with you.''
 Even so, the killing of Dr. King created ''a sense of disorder that was both unsettling and catalyzing'' to Ms. Rodham, recalled Mr. Schechter, the political science professor and a mentor to her. Friends observed that she was less restrained and less deferential after Dr. King's death.
 At a panel discussion for a group of Wellesley alumni in mid-April, Mrs. Clinton bemoaned the ''large gray mass'' of uninvolved students. At another meeting, she argued with an economics professor who suggested that the strike take place on a weekend. 
 ''I'll give up my date Saturday night, Mr. Goldman, but I don't think that's the point,'' Ms. Rodham told the professor, Marshall Goldman, according to the April 25, 1968, Wellesley News. ''Individual consciences are fine but individual consciences have to be made manifest. Why do these attitudes have to be limited to two days?'' 
 Ms. Rodham had traveled to New Hampshire several times that winter to volunteer for Mr. McCarthy, the Minnesota Democrat challenging President Lyndon B. Johnson for the Democratic nomination. Mr. McCarthy's message -- that the antiwar movement should operate within the system, not on the streets -- appealed to Ms. Rodham. The candidate urged his supporters to be respectful, prompting the young activists to cut their hair, shave their beards and be ''Clean for Gene.'' That summer, Ms. Rodham took to the streets herself, albeit as a safe observer. While home in Park Ridge, she and a friend, Betsy Johnson, kept hearing about all the commotion downtown at the Democratic Convention. They drove Ms. Johnson's parents' station wagon into Chicago to view the spectacle. 
 ''We thought we had seen all there was to see in our sheltered neighborhood,'' recalled Betsy Johnson Eberling, another former Goldwater Girl. ''It was a radicalizing experience for us, to some extent.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton has said repeatedly how ''shocked'' she was at the brutality she witnessed -- protesters throwing rocks, police officers beating protesters -- but describes the bedlam with almost scholarly detachment. In her memoir, ''Living History,'' she recalls spending hours that summer arguing with a friend over the ''meaning of revolution and whether our country would face one.'' Even if there was a revolution, the two friends concluded, ''we would never participate.''
 Keeping a Toe in the G.O.P.
 For all her leftward movement, Ms. Rodham still kept a toe in the Republican Party, working as an intern in Washington that summer. Mr. Schechter, who supervised the Wellesley internship program, sent her to work for the House Republican Conference, then headed by Mr. Laird, the Wisconsin congressman who would later become President Richard Nixon's defense secretary. ''My adviser said, 'I'm still going to assign you to the Republicans because I want you to understand completely what your own transformation represents,'' Mrs. Clinton recalled of Mr. Schechter.
 ''I remember her being very bright, very aggressive and not very Republican,'' said Ed Feulner, who managed the summer interns in the office and now heads the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group.
 Ever diligent, Ms. Rodham did ''a fine job,'' said Mr. Laird, citing a ''very thorough and well-researched'' speech she wrote on the financing of the Vietnam War. At the end of the internship, Ms. Rodham proudly posed for a photo with House Republican leaders, including Representative Gerald R. Ford of Michigan. The photo hung in her father's bedroom when he died in 1993. 
 Along with other interns, Ms. Rodham was invited by Representative Charles Goodell, a moderate New York Republican, to help Gov. Nelson Rockefeller's last-ditch campaign to defeat Mr. Nixon for the Republican nomination. At the party's convention in Miami, she met Frank Sinatra, shared an elevator with John Wayne and decided to leave the Republican Party for good. ''She was particularly furious at how she felt Rockefeller had been trashed by the Nixon people,'' Mr. Schechter said.
 ''I'm done with this, absolutely,'' Mrs. Clinton recalled thinking upon hearing Mr. Nixon's acceptance speech. She characterized the Republicanism of her youth as one of fiscal conservatism and social moderation, and at odds with what she viewed as the intolerance of Miami. 
 ''All of a sudden you get all these veiled messages, frankly, that were racist,'' Mrs. Clinton said of the convention. ''I may not have been able to explain it, but I could feel it.''
 Back at Wellesley that fall, Ms. Rodham immersed herself in campus matters. She reveled in her role as student government president, which offered both the visibility and social validation she craved. (''I think I enjoy winning elections as a tangible proof of respect and liking,'' she wrote to Mr. Peavoy.) 
 She won the post in the spring, after campaigning for two weeks ''spouting the usual platitudes,'' as she said in her letter. When she learned of her victory, she was stunned and thrilled. ''Can you believe this?'' she said over and over, recalled a professor, Steve London, who received a thank-you note from Ms. Rodham soon after her election. ''I think it was a form letter that went out to all the faculty,'' Mr. London said.
 As the year was ending , Ms. Rodham was working on a 92-page honors dissertation on Saul Alinsky, the antipoverty crusader and community activist, whom she described (quoting from The Economist) as ''that rare specimen, the successful radical.''
 Power and Activism
 Beyond Mr. Alinsky, the treatise yields insights about its author. Gaining power, Ms. Rodham asserted, was at the core of effective activism. It ''is the very essence of life, the dynamo of life,'' she wrote, quoting Mr. Alinsky. 
 Ms. Rodham endorsed Mr. Alinsky's central critique of government antipoverty programs -- that they tended to be too top-down and removed from the wishes of individuals.
 But the student leader split with Mr. Alinsky over a central point. He vowed to ''rub raw the sores of discontent'' and compel action through agitation. This, she believed, ran counter to the notion of change within the system. 
 Typically, the paper, which received an A, was neatly typed, exhaustively footnoted and even included a page of acknowledgments. ''Although I have no ''loving wife'' to thank for keeping the children away while I wrote,'' Ms. Rodham said, ''I do have many friends and teachers who have contributed to the process.'' 
 In a listing of primary sources, Ms. Rodham reported that she met three times with Mr. Alinsky and that he offered her a job. ''After a year trying to make sense of his inconsistency,'' she wrote, explaining her demurral, ''I need three years of legal rigor.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 1, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An illustration on Sept. 5 with a front-page article about the role the turmoil of the 1960s played in shaping Hillary Rodham Clinton's political philosophy showed part of a letter of recommendation that a professor at Wellesley College wrote for her when she applied to Yale Law School.
 The letter was dated Oct. 13, 1968, and was written on Wellesley letterhead. Readers pointed out that the letterhead contained a nine-digit ZIP code, which was not used until many years later. The professor says that when the media began asking about Mrs. Clinton in 1992 while Bill Clinton was running for president, he had a copy of the 1968 letter retyped on the letterhead and has been using that copy since that time.
 Had The Times noticed the discrepancy, it would not have used the letterhead to illustrate the article; this editors' note was delayed for research.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An undated photograph of Hillary Rodham, center, during her days as a student at Wellesley College, from 1965 to 1969. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CORBIS)(pg. A1)
Hillary Rodham, center with glasses, among students at Wellesley. She was a student government leader.
Ms. Rodham in 1969, the year she graduated. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CORBIS)(pg. A25)
 Law school recommendation for Hillary Rodham, top, and Ms. Rodham's address to Wellesley freshmen.(pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



115 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-18
 Hard Times Help Iran Tighten Grip on Power
 Average Iranians have endured economic hardships, political repression and international isolation as top officials have remained defiant over Iran's nuclear program. For the country's leadership, those problems do not constitute threats but opportunities to secure its rule.A1 
 A former Iranian president long sidelined by the supreme leader narrowly won election to head a government council in another sign of growing domestic discontent with Iran's increasingly radical policies.A18
 War Debate Reopens Capitol
 As Congress re-opened, the Democratic leadership promised to force a change in President Bush's war strategy and lawmakers maneuvered to frame the debate over Iraq.A10
 An Iraqi appeals court upheld a death sentence against one of Saddam Hussein's main henchmen, known as Chemical Ali, for a genocidal campaign that killed as many as 180,000 Kurds. A12 
 Bombings Kill 25 in Pakistan
 Powerful coordinated explosions by two suicide bombers jolted a city near Islamabad, killing at least 25 people, some from Pakistan's intelligence agency. A8
 NATIONAL A20-25 
 Farmers Cross Border For Stable Labor Supply
 An increasing number of farmers who rely on immigrant laborers are starting to raise crops across the Mexican border where there is a stable labor supply, growers and lawmakers in the United States and Mexico said. A1 
 Renowned Aviator Missing
 Steve Fossett, a millionaire adventurer, disappeared after taking off from a Nevada ranch for a brief recreational flight in a single-engine plane. Nine aircraft searched several hundred square miles in the mountains for signs of him or his plane. A20 
 Craig Mulls Staying in Office
 Senator Larry E. Craig of Idaho opened the door to returning to the Senate. A spokesman for Mr. Craig said the senator had not ruled out reversing his plan to step down Sept. 30, creating another twist in his unfolding political drama and raising the possibility of an ugly showdown with national Republican leaders. A24
 Budget Nominee Approved
 Congress moved closer to a showdown with the White House over federal spending as the Senate approved Jim Nussle, a former congressman from Iowa, as President Bush's nominee for budget director. A24 
 NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 As Sex Sells on Craigslist, Police Flock There, Too
 The Nassau County police have made more than 70 arrests since they began focusing on Craigslist.org, the classified ad Web site increasingly used to trade sex for money. Vice squads have been monitoring the Web site, placing decoy ads to catch would-be customers. A1 
 Resort Set for Catskills
 After a seven-year legal and political battle over the fate of some of the most environmentally sensitive land in New York State, Gov. Eliot Spitzer is expected to announce an agreement that would allow an upstate entrepreneur to build a resort within 20 miles of two of New York City's largest reservoirs.B1
 BUSINESS DAY C1-10
 Tempest in a Cupcake
 School districts across the country have been taking steps to offer healthier food because of new federal guidelines , but some parents say school officials have crossed the line. C1 
 Business Digest C2
 EDITORIAL A26-27
 Editorials: Another Iraq photo op; unprotected air cargo; the candidates' tainted money; a saint of darkness.
 Columns: Thomas L. Friedman and Maureen Dowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); RESORTS (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); APPEALS COURTS (54%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: LARRY CRAIG (78%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIM NUSSLE (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



116 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Budget Impasse Looms as Senate Approves Nominee

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Congress moved closer on Tuesday to a showdown with the White House over federal spending as the Senate approved President Bush's nominee for budget director, but Democrats expressed growing frustration with the president's spending priorities.
 With less than a month to go before the new fiscal year begins on Oct. 1, Congress has not completed action on any of the 12 major annual appropriations bills. Mr. Bush has threatened to veto many of the measures passed by the House that are now awaiting action in the Senate.
 By a vote of 69 to 24, the Senate on Tuesday confirmed the nomination of Jim Nussle, a former Iowa congressman, to be director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, but Democrats used the occasion to question Mr. Bush's priorities. Mr. Nussle will lead the administration into the battle with Congress over appropriations. 
 Mr. Nussle, a House member for 16 years, was defeated when he ran for governor last year. When he was nominated in June, Congressional Democrats predicted that Mr. Nussle would be much more combative than the last budget director, former Representative Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, who had worked well with Democrats.
 The House has passed its version of the 12 spending bills. The Senate has passed one, and no conference committee has begun to work out the differences. 
 No one seems to know how the impasse will be resolved. Mr. Bush, in Australia on Tuesday, lamented the failure of Congress to complete action on any of the regular spending bills.
 In the vote on Mr. Nussle's nomination, Senate Democrats were evenly divided, with 23 supporting confirmation and 23 opposed. No Republican voted against the nomination.
 The Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, said they were voting against Mr. Nussle to show their profound disagreement with Mr. Bush's policies.
 ''The president has turned record surpluses into record deficits by giving hundreds of billions of tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans while borrowing nearly $500 billion to finance the Iraq civil war,'' Mr. Reid said.
 Mr. Conrad said that Mr. Nussle, a former chairman of the House Budget Committee, was ''clearly qualified'' to be budget director. But, Mr. Conrad said, the vote was ''a question of what policy we pursue in the future.'' And, he said, Mr. Nussle was an architect of what he described as Mr. Bush's misguided tax and spending policies.
 ''Spending is up dramatically,'' Mr. Conrad said. ''Real revenue has stagnated. The deficit and the debt have soared.''
 Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, led the opposition to Mr. Nussle, whom he described as a symbol of everything wrong with Mr. Bush's domestic policies.
 ''The Bush administration is completely out of touch with the harsh economic reality facing tens of millions of American families,'' Mr. Sanders said. ''We need a budget director who will make this president understand what the ordinary American family is going through. Unfortunately, there's nothing in former Congressman Nussle's background to suggest that he is that person.''
 Republicans defended Mr. Bush's fiscal policies. ''I hope Congressman Nussle continues those policies,'' said Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the senior Republican on the Budget Committee.
 Mr. Gregg said the Bush tax cuts had produced ''a huge influx of revenues to the federal government,'' and he praised Mr. Nussle as an advocate of fiscal discipline.
 Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said Mr. Nussle had displayed ''an encyclopedic grasp of the federal budget process and an understanding of the importance of good relations between the executive branch and Congress.''
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut and the chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, supported the nomination. But Mr. Lieberman said, ''I do so with the understanding that Congressman Nussle will have to exercise the full measure of his diplomatic skills at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue'' to work out a compromise with Congress.
 Mr. Lieberman said he hoped the coming confrontation would not lead to a shutdown of parts of the federal government, like the ones in 1995 and 1996. ''No one gains from such a stalemate,'' he said.
 The Senate on Tuesday also moved toward approval of a spending bill that provides $109 billion for military construction and the Department of Veterans Affairs. That is $4 billion more than Mr. Bush requested. The bill includes $87.5 billion for veterans health care, which is $3.6 billion more than Mr. Bush requested.
 The White House said Tuesday that the extra money was not needed. But Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, the senior Republican on the subcommittee responsible for the bill, said the White House had assured her that Mr. Bush would sign the bill.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Senate approved Jim Nussle as budget director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN ETHERIDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VETO (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); TAX LAW (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); CIVIL WAR (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: JIM NUSSLE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); KENT CONRAD (79%); HARRY REID (59%); ROB PORTMAN (59%); BERNIE SANDERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



117 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Housing Woes Hurt NovaStar and Insurer

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
New fallout from the United States housing slump hit mortgage and real estate companies yesterday as the subprime lender NovaStar Financial and the title insurer the First American Corporation announced job cuts, and NovaStar's auditor expressed doubt that the company would survive. 
 NovaStar scrapped plans to raise $101.2 million in a rights offering, saying its auditor, Deloitte & Touche, would not be associated with the plan unless NovaStar amended its financial disclosures to include a statement ''about the uncertainty of NovaStar's ability to continue as a going concern.''
 First American, the largest American provider of insurance to protect homeowners against property claims, said it would cut 1,300 jobs, on top of 600 job cuts announced in the second quarter, citing ''rapidly changing economic conditions.''
 The company, based in Santa Ana, Calif., said it might move some jobs to other countries. It ended 2006 with 39,670 employees. The LandAmerica Financial Group, the third-largest title insurer, announced 1,100 job reductions last Tuesday.
 NovaStar, based in Kansas City, Mo., also said it would eliminate 275 of 400 retail lending jobs and close 12 retail offices, and explore ''strategic alternatives'' for its servicing business, including a partnership with another company. It had stopped making home loans through brokers on Aug. 17. NovaStar expects to employ 600 people over all after the cuts, down from 2,048 at year-end. NovaStar shares fell as much as 19.8 percent, and closed at $7.16, down 15.7 percent.
 ''The probability of insolvency has increased significantly,'' wrote Paul Miller, an analyst at the Friedman, Billings, Ramsey Group. ''An eventual liquidation of the company is highly probable.''
 Mr. Miller rates NovaStar underperform with a zero price target. 
 ''We are pulling back to focus on NovaStar's core strengths and preserve liquidity,'' the company's chief executive, Scott Hartman, said in a statement. ''The secondary market has deteriorated substantially, so we are modifying our business model and further reducing costs for this difficult environment.''
 NovaStar executives were unavailable for further comment.
 Thornburg Mortgage, a specialist in ''jumbo'' mortgages that do not qualify for purchase and guarantee by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said it had sold bonds backed by $1.44 billion of home loans. The company, based in Santa Fe, said it planned to use proceeds to pay down credit lines and speed up lending, after halting loan applications last month and selling $20.5 billion of securities to help pay off debt.
 Ratings Inquiry
 Two rating agencies, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings, have received subpoenas from the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, who has been investigating the mortgage industry.
 Steven Weiss, a spokesman from the S.& P., and James Jockle, a spokesman from Fitch, confirmed the subpoenas. 
 Mr Cuomo wants information on ratings on residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, which hold mortgage-backed securities, Mr. Jockle said. Fitch is owned by Fimalac.
 Both companies said they were cooperating with the investigation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); TITLE INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); LOAN BROKERS (73%); BONDS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); SUBPOENAS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: CORELOGIC INC (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); NOVATION COS INC (58%); FIDELITY NATIONAL FINANCIAL INC (56%); ARLINGTON ASSET INVESTMENT CORP (53%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (50%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (91%); FNF (NYSE) (56%); AI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (78%) MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



118 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Disdaining the Long-Range Plan

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
Don't plan ahead.
 That is the surprising advice I keep getting from entrepreneurs. I first heard it more than a decade ago from Harold Geneen, who built ITT from a scattering of companies to a $28 billion industrial empire in the 1960s and 70s.
 ''If somebody starts talking about 'long-range planning,' run,'' Mr. Geneen told me. He said he had banned the practice at ITT and ordered his managers to focus instead on short-term performance. 
 Joe Roetheli, an entrepreneur I profiled awhile back, delivered a similar message. ''I plan as the moments go by,'' he told me. If you try to divine events more than a few weeks into the future, he added, ''You will be wasting a lot of time.''
 Longer-term projections can actually put your firm in jeopardy, according to Bill Meyer, a California producer of business conferences. ''Five-year plans contain assumptions that probably won't pan out,'' he said. ''In the meantime, they can restrict your freedom of action.''
 Mr. Geneen was in his mid-80s when I interviewed him, and Mr. Roetheli is pushing 60. But even fledgling entrepreneurs say amen to the sermon their older peers preach.
 ''Long-term goals are dangerous,'' said Ben Casnocha (pronounced kas-NO-ka), who founded Comcate, a San Francisco maker of online software for city governments, five years ago at the age of 14. ''They limit you. They hinder you from reacting to new conditions.''
 I scanned this 19-year-old's recently published how-to book, ''My Start-Up Life'' (Jossey-Bass, 2007), and found an even more scathing attitude. He mocked business plans as a ''fantasy,'' a ''myth'' and a ''trap'' that are ''almost always out of date within minutes of writing.''
 I believe this disdain for peering too far into the future reflects two core traits shared by most entrepreneurs: their conviction that fate intervenes constantly to nudge their ventures in new directions, and their delight in the messiness and unpredictability of the marketplace, which forces them to shift gears almost daily.
 Maggie Topkis, founder of Felony & Mayhem Press, a New York firm that specializes in reissuing out-of-print mysteries and first American editions of mysteries published abroad, knows all about that.
 Ms. Topkis, a 47-year-old former financial reporter and the co-owner of a Greenwich Village bookstore, started her company in 2005 determined to sell her products herself. ''It was the classic entrepreneurial mistake,'' she said. ''I knew nothing about distribution.'' She soon hired a team of sales representatives. Similarly, her plan to restrict her sales to independent stores and shy away from the chains quickly collapsed.
 When she began, she projected revenue of $200,000 in 2007. Today, she says they will approach $1 million.
 ''My plans before I opened bore no relationship to what was happening six months later,'' she said.
 How could she have foreseen, after all, that she would fall for an out-of-print British mystery whose author, Elizabeth Ironside, was the pseudonym of Lady Catherine Manning, wife of Sir David Manning, the British ambassador to the United States? 
 Ms. Topkis discovered her true identity with the sleuthing skills she had learned as a journalist. She then negotiated American rights to the novel, ''Death in the Garden,'' and later to Ms. Ironside's four other books. ''Death in the Garden'' came out in late 2005 and has since sold more than 35,000 copies. ''You cannot believe the launch party at the British Embassy,'' Ms. Topkis said. ''There were 400 people, including every boldface name in Washington, from Dick Cheney to Vernon Jordan. I made small talk with Sandra Day O'Connor.''
 It would have been difficult to include that unexpected turn of events in her business plan. Or the fact that the book would get rave reviews and lead to sales to bookstores that would otherwise been loath to take on a tiny, untried vendor.
 That is not to say you shouldn't do research on the possibilities that await you. A company called Comfort Keepers that provides nonmedical home care says it expects to increase the number of its franchise locations to 700 by 2010 from 550 today, based on its own past growth and on Census Bureau statistics on the graying of the population.
 Ms. Topkis says planning ahead is fine as long as it is viewed as a sort of wish list, like the size of raises you hope to give your employees or a review of possible future initiatives (which, in her case, includes publishing original manuscripts).
 Ty Freyvogel, a 60-year-old serial entrepreneur, angel investor, speaker and small-business consultant in Pittsburgh, shares the distrust for too much planning. ''You need to sell a bank on a five-year plan but it is really your one-year plan,'' he said. ''A business plan is really just a way to stay organized, a way to get money. It is a blueprint that has to be revised by the month. You have to have it but it can never anticipate changes in legislation, in telecommunications, in economic trends. And the changes are coming faster today than in any previous time I can think of.''
 This rapidly shifting business environment, Mr. Freyvogel adds, ''gives small businesses a huge advantage over big corporations because of their famous ability to bob and weave.''
 Like many starting entrepreneurs, Mr. Casnocha gave himself a crash course on the basics as he went along. He identified 60,000 local government entities in the United States, from townships to water districts, so he knew his potential market was huge. Yet big cities spurned his overtures, so he concluded he would have to focus on smaller municipalities.
 He learned another harsh lesson: Setbacks are inevitable, and you can't plan for them. In one case, a deal with Antioch, Calif., to try out his program fell through because the city manager left abruptly.
 ''Yes, the light bulb goes off,'' Mr. Casnocha said. ''But it goes off several times, and changes color each time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (69%); BOOKSTORES (63%); FELONIES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2008



119 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2007

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 3204 words

HEADLINE: Letters From the Diaspora

BYLINE: JENNIFER RITTNER and JAVAID KHAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students share opinions about the causes of mass migration. They then investigate the causes and effects of an event that led to a mass migration and write letters from the perspective of a person who might have lived through that period. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan:
In this lesson, students share opinions about the causes of mass migration. They then investigate the causes and effects of an event that led to a mass migration and write letters from the perspective of a person who might have lived through that period.
Author(s):
Jennifer Rittner, The New York Times Learning Network
Javaid Khan, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance:
One hour
Objectives:
Students will:
 1. Share opinions about the causes of mass migrations.
 2. Learn about Edwidge Danticat's memoir by reading and discussing the article "A Haitian Tragedy: Brothers Yearn in Vain."
 3. Investigate the causes and outcomes of a global migration.
 4. Write a series of letters from the perspective of an individual affected by the migration they investigated in class.
Resources/Materials:
-pens/pencils
 -student journals
 -classroom board
 -resources for investigating migrations, major world conflicts and regimes including text books, library resources, encyclopedia and computers with Internet access
 -copies of the article "A Haitian Tragedy: Brothers Yearn in Vain," found online at http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070905wednesday.html (one per student)
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do Now: Prior to class, write the following prompt on the board for students to respond to in their journals: "What national conditions (political, social or environmental) in any country might motivate citizens to move to another country?" Prompt students to consider factors like widespread drought or flood, dictatorships, war or genocide. After a few minutes, have students share their responses. What examples of large-scale migrations have they learned about in class or believe might affect people now? 
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "A Haitian Tragedy: Brothers Yearn in Vain" (http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070905wednesday.html), focusing on the following questions:
 a. What is the focus of Edwidge Danticat's new book?
 b. Where does her story take place?
 c. Why did her father choose to leave for the United States while her uncle stayed in Haiti?
 d. What form did Danticat's father use to write her letters?
 e. Why did he adopt this style of letter-writing at that time?
 f. In what ways did her father and uncle both take on the role of father to her?
 g. What professional challenges did the two men face?
 h. What personal challenges did they face?
 i. In what way was Joseph "exiled finally in death?"
 j. How does Danticat's work demonstrate the way the public and private, political and personal, intersect in the lives of a country's citizens and exiles? 
3. Explain to the class that they will work in groups to investigate a global incident that might have inspired a migration. If necessary, provide an overview of migration and diaspora, the latter of which is defined by Merriam-Webster's Dictionary as, "a: the movement, migration, or scattering of a people away from an established or ancestral homeland b: people settled far from their ancestral homelands c: the place where these people live." 
Begin by arranging the class into small groups of two or three students and assign each group a place and defining event from the list below. Alternatively, choose one place and event for the entire class to investigate. 
Places and Defining Events
 -United States during the Dust Bowl in the 1930s
 -Cuba during the Communist Revolution (beginning in 1959)
 -Haiti during the rise of Francois "Papa Doc" Duvalier (1957-1971)
 -Chile during Augusto Pinochet's regime (1973-1981)
 -Rwanda during the 1994 Genocide
 -India during the split between India and Pakistan in 1947
 -Vietnam after the United States left in 1973
 -Indonesia after the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami
 -China after the Tiananmen Square protest in 1989
 -Russia during the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution
 -Israel/Palestine during the creation of Israel in 1948
 -Ireland during the Famine in the 18th century
 -Germany during Hitler's rise to power in the 1930s 
Distribute both the guiding and character development questions as a handout for easier student access. Have students use all available resources to learn more about their respective incidents. 
Guiding Questions
 -What are the important details about the defining event?
 -What events or issues led up to or caused it?
 -Who were the main figures involved?
 -How were the country's citizens affected by the event or conflict?
 -To what country(ies) did citizens flee?
 -By what means might they have traveled to get there (like on foot, by boat, by plane)?
 -What geographic obstacles, if any, did they face during their journeys?
 -How might the economic status of citizens have influenced the choices they made about migrating (whether to leave and where to go)?
 -What challenges or opportunities did migrants face in trying to leave their country of origin and/or in trying to enter their intended destination? 
Give students 10 to 15 minutes to gather their research. Then prompt students to work individually to conceive a story about a fictitious person whose life might have been affected by these events. 
Character Development Questions
 -Who is the main character?
 -What might be his or her occupation, vocation or position in the country of origin?
 -Where in the country does he or she live?
 -Who are the members of his or her family?
 -Why might the character choose to stay in the country?
 -Why might the character elect to migrate to another country?
 -What questions might the person face in making the decision about whether to stay or leave?
 -To what region or country might the person migrate? Why?
 -What challenges or opportunities might the person face in the new country?
 -To what degree might he or she be able to continue his or her work in the new country?
 -How might the public and private, political and personal, intersect in the person's life?
Toward the end of class, give students a few minutes to discuss their characters within their groups. Remind students that characters must be based on the reality of life at that time and in that place. Have them work together to check the accuracy of the group's work. 
4. Wrap-Up/Homework: Have each student write a series of five letters using the diamond sequence, as follows (written in their journals before the end of class):
 -Paragraph 1: Opening greeting
 -Paragraph 2: Middle detail or request
 -Paragraph 3: Brief farewell 
Students must assume the role of the character they developed in class. Each letter must reference elements of the events the character would be experiencing and their impact on his or her life. Over the course of the five letters, the character must express his or her decision to stay in or leave the country, and why. Remind students that their letters may stretch over several weeks, months or years and must accurately relate the details of the conflict. Also prompt them to consider how the public and private might intersect in the character's life.
 Have students share their letters with their groups in the next class.
Further Questions for Discussion:
-How is your own community affected by immigration, if at all?
 -Have hardships or obstacles faced by members of your own family influenced your view of the world? How might you use their stories and experiences to inform your own life, if at all?
 -To what degree might you want to learn about the issues facing an immigrant group in your community?
Evaluation/Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on participation in the opening exercise, thoughtful participation in group work and completion and accuracy of their letters.
Vocabulary:
factions, epistolary, myriad, indelible, diaspora, entreaties, laryngectomy, asylum, pulmonary, fibrosis, excruciating
Extension Activities:
1. Read a memoir or autobiography, like "Brother, I'm Dying" by Edwidge Danticat; "The Diary of A Young Girl," by Anne Frank; "The House on Mango Street," by Sandra Cisneros; or "To Kill a Mockingbird," by Harper Lee. How important is place (country, state or region) in the story? How important is the period? To what degree does creativity accentuate the inherent drama in the story? After reading the book, choose a personal event in your own life on which to base a memoir. What creative devices will you employ to accentuate the real-life drama of your story? How will you integrate aspects of your geographic location and time period into the story? Submit your finished work to your school's literary journal for publication. 
2. Prepare a color-coded diaspora map that highlights the migration patterns of a national or ethnic group. Why might large groups of people have chosen to leave their country of origin? What opportunities and challenges might that group face in new countries? Prepare a summary of your findings. 
3. Create an annotated bibliography of books related to migration, diaspora and national conflict with comments about each to put in the school library. Include books that represent a variety of time periods and nations. 
4. Create a timeline of the history of Haiti that outlines key events including revolutions, dictatorships and uprisings. 
5. Write a short story in which you relate the public and private, political and personal as it relates to your own family.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Civics -- Create a poster that explains the various means under which a person may enter the United States, like on a travel visa, work visa, immigrant visit, naturalization status, political asylum or refugee status. 
Fine Arts -- Read the "The Great Migration Series: An American Story" by Jacob Lawrence. Using his illustrations for inspiration, create an artistic portrayal of the migration you researched in class.
 -Research and produce a Podcast of Haitian music.
Health -- Prepare a "How-It-Works" poster on pulmonary fibrosis. 
Journalism - Interview members of an immigrant group in your community to learn their stories. What issues or obstacles did they face in their home country? What questions did they face in migrating to the United States? How has life been for them in the community? Write an article based on your findings. 
Teaching with The Times - Read the International section of The Times every week for one month and clip articles about an ongoing conflict or environmental dilemma in another country. Summarize the conflict as it is outlined in the articles and then investigate it further. What long term impact might the conflict or dilemma have on citizens (like their ability to work, maintain a stable family life or assure their own personal safety)? To what degree have citizens migrated so far? To what countries have they migrated? What impact has their migration had on citizens of that country? Write a comprehensive report based on your findings. Include a map outlining the migration pattern, if applicable. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
background: Times Topics: Edwidge Danticat (http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/d/edwidge_danticat/index.html) 
Times Topics: Immigration and Refugees (http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/immigration_and_refugees/index.html)
Other Information on the Web:
Borzoi Books (http://www.randomhouse.com/knopf/catalog/display.pperl?isbn=9781400041152&view=excerpt) offers excerpts from Danticat's book "Brother, I'm Dying." 
 CIA World Factbook (https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/index.html) offers demographic and political information about every country.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8
 Civics Standard 22 -- Understands how the world is organized politically into nation-states, how nation-states interact with one another and issues surrounding American foreign policy. Benchmarks: Understands the significance of principal foreign policies and events in the United States' relations with the world; understands how and why the United States assumed the role of world leader after World War II and what its current leadership role is in the world; understands the major foreign policy positions that have characterized the United States' relations with the world; understands the current role of the United States in peacemaking and peacekeeping; understands the role of the United States in establishing and maintaining principal international organizations.
Civics Standard 23 -- Understands the impact of significant political and nonpolitical developments on the United States and other nations. Benchmarks: Understands the influence that American ideas about rights have had on other nations and international organizations; understands the impact that other nations' ideas about rights have had on the United States; understands the impact that current political developments around the world have on the United States.
Geography Standard 10 -- Understands the nature and complexity of Earth's cultural mosaics. Benchmark: Knows ways in which communities reflect the cultural background of their inhabitants.
Geography Standard 13 -- Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that shape the divisions of Earth's surface. Benchmarks: Understands factors that contribute to cooperation or conflict; knows the social, political and economic divisions on Earth's surface at the local, state, national and international levels; understands the factors that affect the cohesiveness and integration of countries.
Language Arts Standard 4 -- Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics; determines the appropriateness of an information source for a research topic; organizes information and ideas from multiple sources in systematic ways.
Language Arts Standard 7- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: knows the defining characteristics of a variety of informational texts; uses new information to adjust and extend personal knowledge base; identifies techniques used to convey viewpoint; differentiates between fact and opinion in informational texts
 World History Standard 42 -- Understands major global trends from 1900 to the end of World War II. Benchmarks: Understands the nature and extent of Western military, political and economic power in the world in 1945 compared with 1900; understands the ideologies, policies and governing methods of 20th century totalitarian regimes compared to those of contemporary democracies and absolutist states of earlier centuries.
World History Standard 43 -- Understands how post-World War II reconstruction occurred, new international power relations took shape and colonial empires broke up. Benchmark: Understands post-war relations between the Soviet Union, Europe and the United States.
World History Standard 44 -- Understands the search for community, stability and peace in an interdependent world. Benchmarks: Understands influences on economic development around the world; understands instances of political conflict and terrorism in modern society; understands the emergence of a global culture.
World History Standard 45 -- Understands major global trends since World War II. Benchmarks: Understands the origins and decline of the Cold War and its significance as a 20th-century event; understands the causes and consequences of the world's shift from bipolar to multipolar centers of economic, political and military power.
Grades 9-12
 Civics Standard 22 -- Understands how the world is organized politically into nation-states, how nation-states interact with one another and issues surrounding American foreign policy. Benchmarks: Understands the significance of principal foreign policies and events in the United States' relations with the world; understands how and why the United States assumed the role of world leader after World War II and what its current leadership role is in the world; understands the major foreign policy positions that have characterized the United States' relations with the world; understands the current role of the United States in peacemaking and peacekeeping; understands the role of the United States in establishing and maintaining principal international organizations.
Civics Standard 23 -- Understands the impact of significant political and nonpolitical developments on the United States and other nations. Benchmarks: Understands the influence that American ideas about rights have had abroad and how other peoples' ideas about rights have influenced Americans; understands the effects that significant world political developments have on the United States; understands the effects that significant American political developments have on other nations.
Geography Standard 10 -- Understands the nature and complexity of Earth's cultural mosaics. Benchmarks: Knows how cultures influence the characteristics of regions; understands how human characteristics make specific regions of the world distinctive; understands how evolving political and economic alliances may affect the traditional cohesiveness of world culture regions; knows the role culture plays in incidents of cooperation and conflict in the present-day world.
Language Arts Standard 4 -- Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of news sources to gather information for research topics; determines the validity and reliability of primary and secondary source information and uses information accordingly in reporting on a research topic.
Language Arts Standard 7 -- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Knows the defining characteristics of a variety of informational texts; determines the effectiveness of techniques used to convey viewpoint.
World History Standard 42 -- Understands major global trends from 1900 to the end of World War II. Benchmarks: Understands how revolutionary movements in countries like Mexico, Russia and China either drew upon or rejected liberal, republican and constitutional ideals of 18th and 19th century revolutions.
World History Standard 44 -- Understands the search for community, stability and peace in an interdependent world. Benchmarks: Understands the role of political ideology, religion and ethnicity in shaping modern governments; understands the role of ethnicity, cultural identity and religious beliefs in shaping economic and political conflicts across the globe; understands the effectiveness of United Nations programs; understands common arguments of opposition groups in various countries around the world, common solutions they offer and the position of these ideas with regard to Western economic and strategic interests; understands how global political change has altered the world economy.
World History Standard 45 -- Understands major global trends since World War II. Benchmarks: Understands causes of economic imbalances and social inequalities among the world's peoples and efforts made to close these gaps; understands connections between globalizing trends in economy, technology and culture and dynamic assertions of traditional cultural identity and distinctiveness. 

        
A Haitian Tragedy: Brothers Yearn in Vain

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); GENOCIDE (63%); DROUGHT (50%) Biographies; Colonialism and Imperialism; Creative Writing; Crises Around the World; Environment and Society; Geography; Global History; Globalization; Human Rights; Human Systems; Language Arts; Literature; Maps; Power and Authority; South America; World Cultures and Traditions

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011



120 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Congress Told Of Problems In Rebuilding Provinces

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

 BODY:
As the top American officials in Iraq prepare to deliver a critical set of progress reports, the program devised to rebuild Iraq at the provincial level has gone through three directors in the past four months, and much of the staff hired to organize the effort in Baghdad has left, a senior oversight official told Congress yesterday.
 The official, Ginger Cruz, the deputy inspector general for Iraq reconstruction, said the agencies in charge were still not coordinating their efforts. And, she added, just 29 of the 610 people deployed in Iraq as part of the provincial reconstruction program have extensive knowledge of Arabic culture, history and language. 
 As a consequence of those difficulties, Rick Barton, co-director of the post-conflict reconstruction project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research organization in Washington, said at the same hearing that the so-called provincial reconstruction teams, or P.R.T.'s, may have little impact on life in Iraq.
 Within days, Ryan C. Crocker, the United States ambassador to Iraq, and Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top commander there, are expected to present Congress with keenly anticipated reports on political, economic and military progress in Iraq.
 ''The idea of P.R.T.'s in Iraq is probably too late to be of much value,'' Mr. Barton said. The testimony by Mr. Barton and Ms. Cruz was delivered to a meeting of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee. The chairman, Vic Snyder, a Democrat from Arkansas, said concern over interagency coordination was a prime reason for the meeting, which also touched on the situation in Afghanistan.
 The main agencies in question in Iraq are the Pentagon, the State Department and the United States Agency for International Development. But the Treasury and Energy Departments, along with a few others, also play supporting roles.
 Mr. Snyder said that as part of what President Bush called his ''new way forward'' in Iraq early this year, the number of reconstruction teams has jumped to 25 from 10. The new teams are embedded with military units -- instead of extremely expensive private security crews -- as a way of allowing them to circulate more freely through the country.
 Early indications are that some of the new teams are able to move more readily, said Ms. Cruz, who has visited most of the teams in Iraq on inspection tours. But coordination between the military and the civilian-dominated teams has been far from smooth, she said.
 For example, when the United States military hands over security operations in provinces to Iraqi forces, there is often little coordination with the reconstruction teams, she said. That leaves some teams with no way to visit the provinces for which they are responsible. Just that situation has developed in the province of Najaf, in the south, she said.
 But even with little coherent support from Baghdad and Washington, individual members of the reconstruction teams have carried parts of the effort forward, Ms. Cruz said.
 ''P.R.T.'s are making progress in spite of the system in which they operate,'' Ms. Cruz said in an interview after her testimony. ''I don't want to take anything away from the people who, under fire every day, are undertaking this mission and having some successes.''
 In a filing with the committee, Mr. Barton said that in Anbar Province, which Mr. Bush visited on Monday, progress was possible because several of the new teams were there. The relatively large number of teams in that province, he said, could ''create 'tipping point' opportunities in a problematic area.''
 Still, those opportunities clearly are at risk of being undermined by a lack of coordination among the groups involved in reconstruction. 
 Just last week, Ms. Cruz said, she went with a young Army lieutenant to meet technical representatives of the governor of Baghdad. When the officer showed slides of his teams' work in the Baghdad area, she said, it became apparent that the technical representatives were unaware that dozens of the projects existed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); VIC SNYDER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



121 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Slip As Fed Says Credit Crisis Is Contained

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and EDMUND L. ANDREWS

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as investors were unsettled by reports that showed the troubles in the housing market were deepening even as a Federal Reserve survey of regional conditions found little evidence of the turmoil's having damaged other parts of the economy.
 The sell-off briefly intensified as the release of the Fed's beige book, which summarizes anecdotal reports about the economy from business executives across the country, led some investors to conclude that Fed policy makers would be less inclined to cut interest rates after their meeting on Sept. 18, given the relatively benign report.
 When Fed officials next meet, they are widely expected to reduce the key lending rate from 5.25 percent to 5 percent or perhaps even less, but analysts are divided over how aggressively the Fed might pursue further rate cuts later this year.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down 1.2 percent, or 17.13 points, to 1,472.29; it had fallen by as much as 1.5 percent after the beige book was released in the early afternoon. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 143.39 points, or 1.1 percent, to 13,305.47. 
 Treasury prices jumped, as investors sought safety in debt backed by the federal government. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.47 percent, from 4.55 percent on Tuesday, hitting its lowest level since early December.
 Early yesterday, an index that tracks signing of contracts for sales of existing homes tumbled 12.2 percent for July, to its lowest level in more than six years, the National Association of Realtors reported. The trade group said its members were reporting that buyers of homes were having a tougher time obtaining financing. 
 Pending home sales dropped by nearly 21 percent in the West, which has been hit hard by a spike in interest rates on jumbo mortgages -- those for amounts higher than $417,000.
 ''The fact is that housing troubles are still building,'' said Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust, an investment firm in New York. ''To say that we have bottomed is very much premature. The effect on economic activity will grow in the second half of the year and into 2008.''
 The Fed report released yesterday said that the credit crisis had made it more difficult for people to obtain mortgages and that ''the weakness in the housing market deepened'' in most of the Federal Reserve districts. But it also said that credit remained readily available for most consumer and business borrowers and that, outside of real estate, the convulsions in financial markets had had ''limited'' effects on economic activity.
 In a speech Friday at the Fed's annual symposium in Wyoming, the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the central bank would place more weight than usual on anecdotal reports because the incoming statistical data might not be timely enough to measure a broad economic impact of the credit crisis that began with failing subprime loans.
 But Fed officials made it clear last week that they were very worried about the housing market, where the news was gloomy, and the readings from other areas were mixed rather than buoyant.
 ''They are going to take the beige book statement that it's limited only to the housing area with a grain of salt,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief economist at MFR Inc., a research firm in New York. ''There is only one wound on the body, but how big is the wound and what impact does it have on the rest of the body?''
 Mr. Shapiro's firm expects the Fed to cut its benchmark interest rate, now at 5.25 percent, by 0.25 percentage point later this month and by a total of 0.75 percentage point by the end of the year. That forecast is in line with trading in the futures market.
 There have been only a few signs that the housing market's problems are spilling into the economy as a whole.
 The beige book reported that retail sales were ''modest to moderate'' in most of the country, but inventory was ''at or above desired levels'' in districts that mentioned it. ''Several retailers reported that they planned to or had already heavily discounted merchandise to move inventory,'' the report said.
 A crucial reading on the economy that is likely to play a big role in the Fed's decision on interest rates will come tomorrow when the Labor Department releases employment figures for August. Yesterday, a privately compiled payroll report from Automatic Data Processing showed that corporate payrolls grew by just 38,000 in August, down from 41,000 in July and 143,000 in June.
 Many forecasters say the economy will be able to weather a surge in mortgage defaults and falling home prices if jobs remain plentiful and wages continue rising. Experts acknowledge, however, that employment is a lagging indicator of the economy's health and that many corporate sectors would be hurt if consumer spending deteriorated significantly.
 ''The job market has been a stalwart of strength,'' said Mr. Stern of Bessemer Trust, who does not expect a recession. ''We are dependent on companies continuing to create jobs.''
 Among the S.&P. 500 stocks, 422 fell, 76 rose and 2 were unchanged; all but 3 of the 30 Dow companies fell. Financial stocks accounted for more than a third of the losses in the S.&P. 500. Information technology, industrial and consumer discretionary stocks accounted for a third of the decliners.
 Citigroup and Bank of America led the financial sector down as concerns mounted about big institutions' involvement in off-balance-sheet borrowing in the short-term debt markets and investments in assets like mortgage bonds. 
 A Securities and Exchange Commission official testifying before Congress said the commission was looking into such structured investment vehicles, which have had an increasingly hard time borrowing money by selling commercial paper, a type of short-term debt.
 Technology shares were led down by Apple, which cut the price of its new iPhone by $200 and stopped selling a lower-end version of the device just two months after introducing it. Shares of Apple fell 5.2 percent, and shares of AT&T, the service provider for the phone, lost 1.4 percent.
 More broadly, the beige book noted that manufacturing activity expanded, except in automobiles and building materials. But demand for business loans was either steady or declining in the New York, Cleveland, Chicago and St. Louis districts. 
 Given the turmoil and volatility in the financial markets in the last month and a half, some market specialists say the Fed may be forced to be freer with a rate cut than it normally would be.
 ''It would be psychological,'' said Bruce Bittles, chief market strategist at Robert W. Baird & Company. ''It would leave room for further rate cuts if needed. There is no guarantee that lower rates will help this housing situation. The important thing is that it stabilizes other areas like the stock market.''
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 4-week bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''Modest Growth in Most Regions'' A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Data is for July 17 to Aug. 26. (Source: Bloomberg News) GRAPH: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



122 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Love It? Check the Label

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
UNTIL recently, Bill Allayaud, who works as a director for the Sierra Club in Sacramento, thought people who checked labels on clothing or toys to make sure they were ''Made in the U.S.A.'' were everything he was not: flag-waving, protectionist, even a little xenophobic. 
 But lately, he said, he is becoming one of them. 
 ''Everything I buy now, I look at the label,'' said Mr. Allayaud, 56, who explained that the ''buy American'' movement -- long popular among blue-collar union workers and lunch-pail conservatives -- no longer seemed so jingoistic, and was actually starting to come into vogue for liberals like himself who never before had a philosophical problem with Japanese cars or French wine. 
 He said the reasons for his change of heart are many: a desire to buy as many ''locally made'' products as possible to reduce carbon emissions from transporting them; a worry about toxic goods made in the third world; and a concern that the rising tide of imports will damage the economy and hurt everybody.
 ''Every time you see 'Made in China,' '' he said, ''you think, 'wait a minute, something's not right here.' ''
 ''Made in the U.S.A.'' used to be a label flaunted primarily by consumers in the Rust Belt and rural regions. Increasingly, it is a status symbol for cosmopolitan bobos, and it is being exploited by the marketers who cater to them.
 For many the label represents a heightened concern for workplace and environmental issues, consumer safety and premium quality. ''It involves people wanting to have guilt-free affluence,'' Alex Steffen, who is the executive editor of www.worldchanging.com, a Web site devoted to sustainability issues, said in an e-mail message. ''So you have not only the local food craze but things like American apparel, or Canadian diamonds instead of African 'blood diamonds,' or local-crafted toys.''
 With so many mass-market goods made off-shore, American-made products, which are often more expensive, have come to connote luxury. New Balance produces less expensive running shoes abroad, but it still makes the top-of-the-line 992 model -- which the company says requires 80 manufacturing steps and costs $135 -- in Maine. A favorite in college towns from Cambridge, Mass. to Berkeley, Calif., each model 992 features a large, reflective ''USA'' logo on the heel, and an American flag on the box. 
 American Apparel, which carries the label ''Made in Downtown LA'' in every T-shirt and minidress, famously brought sex appeal to clothing basics that are promoted as ''sweatshop free.'' In the process it won the allegiance of young taste-makers.
 Many of the American designers now showing collections at New York Fashion Week, which runs through Sept. 12, will have their goods stitched in foreign factories, a reflection of the battering of American garment manufacturing. From 2001 to 2006, clothing production in the United States declined by 56 percent, the American Apparel & Footwear Association said.
 American high-fashion designers who do make clothes domestically tend to be too small, or in the case of Oscar de la Renta and Nicole Miller, willing to pay a premium in labor costs in order to maintain strict quality control. 
 But these brands have yet to exploit the cachet of ''Made in the U.S.A.'' in their marketing, in the way that some non-runway labels have seized upon. The designer Steven Alan, for one, while avoiding the Bryant Park tents, makes his distinctive rumpled dress shirts, which sell for $168, in factories in the United States, many in New York City. His ''Made in the U.S.A.'' labels include an embroidered American flag, which he said helps send a subtle message to his target consumer -- downtown, hip, discerning -- that his clothes are not just another mass-market knock-off from Asia.
 Even though it is not always justified, ''there is a perception that because it is made overseas,'' he said, clothing is produced to the ''lowest common denominator -- there is not the attention to detail.'' 
 Any move by the affluent left to conspicuously ''Buy American'' seems like an inversion of the internationalist sensibility that it always wore as a badge of distinction, said Robert H. Frank, an economics professor at the Johnson school of management at Cornell. These people tended to be ardent free-traders as recently the Clinton years. 
 ''They always think of themselves as more sophisticated,'' Professor Frank said. ''The farther away something comes from, the presumption, the better it is.''
 The evolving image of many American-made products as small-batch, high-craftsmanship products is true in other connoisseur-friendly industries as well. Fender, the guitar maker, builds entry-level electric guitars in Mexico, but it still makes higher-end Stratocasters and Telecasters -- including its hand-made Custom Shop models, which sell for several thousand dollars -- in California. 
 In bicycles, too, Schwinn and Huffy have decamped to Asia, leaving high-end specialty companies like Trek and Cannondale alone making bikes in this country, where there is ''a greater sense of craft and small scale,'' said Matthew Mannelly,the chief executive officer of Cannondale. The company recently started producing its ''entry level'' bikes, priced $500 to $1,000, in Asia, but says it still makes the bulk of its product line -- and its best bikes -- in Bedford, Pa. 
 The new prestige of ''Made in America'' was not lost on Elizabeth Preston, a cycling advocate in Washington. While Ms. Preston, 33 , said that politically she is as ''as far left as you can go,'' she nonetheless felt drawn to the Handbuilt in the U.S.A. sticker on the $1,250 Trek road bike she bought for her boyfriend a few weeks ago. Since then, she has been showing off the sticker to friends. 
 ''There's something about the idea of the workmanship and supporting the United States's economy,'' she said. 
 Stephanie Sanzone, a graduate student in environmental policy at George Mason University, says she has seen ample evidence that a ''buy American'' attitude is expanding. 
 Ms. Sanzone, 47, who lives in Alexandria, Va., started the Web site www.stillmadeinusa.comthree years ago to list and promote American-made products, for environmental and economic reasons, she said.
 Unlike many ''Buy American'' Web sites, which feature images of weeping bald eagles or quotations from Pat Buchanan, Ms. Sanzone, a Democrat, keeps her site nonpartisan. In the last month, she said, traffic has jumped fourfold, with new visitors including vegans, green shoppers, ''Free Tibet'' activists and visitors from the Web site democraticunderground.com. Many said the recall of Chinese-made toys inspired them to act, but many also told her that they were starting to expand their focus beyond toys. 
 ''I'm getting all these impassioned e-mails saying, 'I'm never going to buy anything made in China again,' and it really is from a different crowd,'' she said. 
 The recent recalls of Mattel toys, made in China with lead-based paint, prompted many parents to seek American-made toys. Joan Blades of Berkeley, Calif., president of MomsRising.org, a mothers' rights advocacy group with 100,000 members, predicts many parents are going to be checking labels and favoring American-made products, even if they are as simple as wooden blocks, as the holiday season approaches. ''I think more and more mothers are going to be particularly distrustful of goods made in China,'' she said. 
 Indeed, some domestic companies, such asStack & Stick, which produces building blocks, or Little Capers, which makes superhero costumes, are working American flags and ''Made in the USA'' messages into their advertising, as well as marketing themselves as a safe alternative. 
 Skeptics say there are limits to how far the National Public Radio demographic will go as it flirts with a cause long associated with the Rush Limbaugh crowd. It is hard to imagine, say, that people who tote reusable cotton bags to Whole Foods will ditch their beloved Saabs for an American-made Chevrolet Cobalt.
 ''People like that don't even know where the Chevy store is,'' said Ernie Boch, president of Boch Automotive in Norwood, Mass., who operates Honda, Subaru and Toyota dealerships in the Northeast. ''It's kind of like people who stay at the Four Seasons. They've heard of Motel 6, but they don't stay there. It's not part of their vernacular.'' 
 Nonetheless, the new interest from yuppies in seeking out domestically made products is evident to traditionalists like John Ratzenberger, best known as the actor who played Cliff in ''Cheers,'' who grew up in the factory town of Bridgeport, Conn., and is now the host of ''John Ratzenberger's Made in America,'' a Travel Channel show that celebrates craftsmanship at factories.
 ''When we started doing this show, we were accused of being xenophobic, flag-wavers,'' said Mr. Ratzenberger, whose show began five years ago. ''The more we did our show, the more people are looking around in their own towns, realizing once these companies close, it's going to affect the fabric of their communities. Things they took for granted, like sponsors for Little League for example, aren't there.''
 ''This,'' he said, ''goes right across the political spectrum.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption Sept. 6 with an article about the recent rise in interest in American-made goods described incompletely one of the products shown. About 90 percent of Manhattan Portage bags are foreign-made; those with a red label, as shown in the picture, are manufactured domestically.
A picture caption Sept. 6 with an article about the recent rise in interest in American-made goods described incompletely one of the products shown. About 90 percent of Manhattan Portage bags are foreign-made; those with a red label, as shown in the picture, are manufactured domestically.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOME TEAM: Items made in the United States include, clockwise from top right, Harley-Davidson motorcycles, Cannondale mountain bicycles, New Balance 992 running shoes, Fender Custom Shop Stratocaster guitars, BMW Z4 M Roadsters, Levi Capital E jeans, Zippo lighters, American Apparel T-shirts and Manhattan Portage bags. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHIP EAST/BLOOMBERG NEWS (MOTORCYCLE)
PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS (CAR). (pg. G6)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES WILKIN)(pg. G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); SWEATSHOPS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); PRODUCT SAFETY (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); DIAMOND MARKETS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); EMISSIONS (67%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



123 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: New Concern in Europe About Credit Fallout

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank said Wednesday that volatility in credit markets appeared to be returning after a brief period of stability, and a leading group of advanced economic nations warned of ''ominous'' new risks to the global economic outlook. 
 The instability in money markets that worried the central bank pushed European stock markets down nearly 2 percent, breaking a five-session run of advances.
 The Bank of England offered extra funds to banks on Wednesday, its first attempt to lower the cost of credit, and the European bank said it stood ready to do the same should conditions worsen by Thursday, the day the bank is expected to announce that it will keep borrowing costs stable.
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a Paris-based group of 30 industrial nations, issued a report warning that the credit crisis had dimmed prospects for economic growth, especially in the United States.
 It scaled back its growth forecasts for many leading economies and urged central banks to keep interest rates stable and low to stem further damage. And it recommended that the Federal Reserve consider trimming its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point when it meets on Sept. 18.
 ''You cannot rule out a recession'' in the United States, said Jean-Philippe Cotis, the O.E.C.D.'s chief economist.
 Until last week, the European Central Bank had signaled that it would lift borrowing costs for the 13 countries that use the euro, after injecting billions in emergency funds into money markets in mid-August.
 Central banks in Canada and Australia held rates steady on Wednesday. 
 Another report Wednesday warned that China, India and other developing economies needed to protect themselves against the possibility of a sharp slowdown in the United States.
 The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development said global economic growth would slow to 3.4 percent this year, from 4 percent last year. Reuters reported that it warned of the possibility that an ''outright contraction'' in American housing prices could stifle consumer demand, hurting developing countries whose exports to the United States had fueled their growth. 
 The O.E.C.D. said there was considerable uncertainty whether the turmoil in the financial markets had fully run its course.
 Mr. Cotis said in an interview that the picture should be clearer by November, with economists better able by then to measure the impact of the crisis fully.
 The organization lowered its forecast for American economic growth this year to 1.9 percent, from 2.1 percent. It trimmed its outlook for the euro area to 2.6 percent, from 2.7 percent, but kept growth projections for Japan at 2.4 percent.
 On an optimistic note, Mr. Cotis emphasized the resilience so far of American labor markets. That, he said, could help keep household consumption strong and the economy from sinking into recession.
 Many American companies are already operating with lean staffs, Mr. Cotis said, and executives would have to think carefully before pruning numbers further because they could find it costly to rehire workers if the economic outlook improved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



124 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 666 words

PERSON: Edward Gramlich 

HEADLINE: Edward Gramlich, 68, Dies; Ex-Governor of Fed

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Edward M. Gramlich, a former governor of the Federal Reserve who warned of a looming crisis in home mortgages and who ran a federal board created to aid the airlines after the September 2001 attacks, died yesterday in Washington. He was 68.
 Mr. Gramlich's death, from acute myeloid leukemia, was announced by the Urban Institute, a Washington research organization where Mr. Gramlich was a senior fellow. 
 He was named to the Federal Reserve by President Bill Clinton in 1997 and served until 2005.
 ''His contributions to the Federal Reserve were broad and significant,'' Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said in a statement yesterday. 
 As chairman of the federal Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, he urged legislators to better protect consumers against predatory lenders and to toughen regulation of mortgage lenders and banks. 
 His efforts met resistance within the Fed and on Capitol Hill, and he said later that he could have pushed for reform sooner.
 In June, the Urban Institute published his book, ''Subprime Mortgages: America's Latest Boom and Bust,'' which offered solutions for the mortgage crisis. 
 Mr. Gramlich was too ill to attend a Fed economic symposium held in Jackson Hole, Wyo., last week. But in a speech delivered for him at the conference, Mr. Gramlich said the subprime market had become a ''Wild West'' of loans made without any federal supervision. ''The predictable result was carnage,'' Mr. Gramlich said in his remarks. 
 Mr. Gramlich aroused unusual controversy for a Fed member during his tenure as chairman of the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, which was created by Congress to oversee loan guarantees for the struggling airlines after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 Mr. Gramlich twice voted with other board members to reject a loan package for United Airlines, which owned two of the planes that were hijacked that day. Mr. Gramlich said he was convinced the airline could reorganize itself without federal help. 
 United, which had filed for bankruptcy protection after its first application was rejected, sought deep cuts from its unions after its bid was turned down a second time. It eventually emerged from bankruptcy last year, without a loan package.
 Edward Martin Gramlich was born on June 18, 1939, in Rochester, where his father was an engineer for the Eastman Kodak Company. 
 A former minor league batboy, he was later staff director of an economic study commission on Major League Baseball, in 1992.
 Mr. Gramlich attended Williams College and received a master's degree and a doctorate in economics from Yale.
 Starting in 1965, when he joined the research division at the Federal Reserve, Mr. Gramlich's career spanned the academic and government worlds. 
 Mr. Gramlich served as deputy and acting director of the Congressional Budget Office, and at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor he was a professor of economics. He headed the university's public institute and served as interim provost in 2005 and 2006.
 Mr. Gramlich is survived by his wife, Ruth; a son, Robert; a daughter, Sarah; and six grandchildren, as well as his parents, Jacob Edward Gramlich and Harriet Williams Gramlich. 
 Mr. Gramlich had survived acute lymphocytic leukemia, a relatively treatable form of blood cancer, but in March he found that he had the more lethal type. In an interview published on Aug. 18, he discussed his decision not to undergo an experimental treatment. Last month, Mr. Gramlich discontinued the treatment he had been receiving; on Friday, he entered the Washington Home and Community Hospices, where he died. 
 As the author of a book on cost-benefit analysis, Mr. Gramlich said, he had weighed the pros and cons of the treatment offered him by Johns Hopkins, which he was told would not prolong his life and might shorten it. There also was no chance of remission, Mr. Gramlich said. 
 Having made the decision, he said he had no regrets. ''I've already had a long 'saying goodbye' period,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward M. Gramlich (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); PREDATORY LENDING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); HIJACKING (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); BASEBALL (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); BUDGETS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); LEUKEMIA (57%)

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (62%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

BEN BERNANKE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



125 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: The Department Of Just Right

BYLINE: By MIKE ALBO

 BODY:
THE discreet yet unique clothes at A.P.C. may be timeless, but I can't say that conclusively. It's impossible to claim an outfit is timeless while we are wearing it. I am sure, for example, that when guys were sporting powdered wigs, rouge and pointy little beribboned boots, someone looked in the mirror and thought to himself, ''Wow, I have finally landed on a hot and classic look for fall!'' 
 So far, though, A.P.C. has somehow stayed topical -- at least for the last 20 years. Last week was, embarrassingly, the first time I had visited the A.P.C. store in SoHo, and when I mentioned to my much-more-savvy friends that I was writing about it, some of them gasped. It was as if I had just said I was going to visit Patti Smith. They told me stories of a beloved bomber or blazer or pair of jeans that they still cherish. One friend said he is still wearing a jacket he bought at the store when it opened in 1992, which means that jacket has survived at least 18 trend cycles. 
 Jean Touitou, born in Tunisia, started A.P.C. (Atelier de Production et de Creation) even earlier, in 1987. He likes to say in interviews that he never set out to be a designer. A history and linguistics graduate of the Sorbonne, he found work in Paris at places like Kenzo, Agnes b. and Joseph, but in the end, let his talented hands take over, opening a shop on a quiet residential street on the Left Bank in 1988. Now the brand has outposts in Hong Kong, Berlin, Antwerp and Stockholm, among others, along with nine stores in Japan. 
 For a few years now, Mr. Touitou has avoided high-pressure runway presentations like those taking place in New York this week. But A.P.C. doesn't really need to grab the attention of scurrying, overloaded editors in a 10-minute burst of seating-chart insanity. Its stylish basics are already used in countless magazine spreads, often to offset or tone down faddish runway creations of, say, horsehair and pompoms. 
 It's hard to articulate Mr. Touitou's subtle aesthetic. In a nervous e-mail message to him, I called his clothes ''understated,'' and Mr. Touitou responded like the auteur he is, saying: ''I don't consider A.P.C. understated. But I sure do consider a lot of brands overstated. That's the thing: we change all the time, and yet it doesn't seem we do.''
 Like its merchandise, the store in SoHo is a study in stylish restraint. The floors of the large room are wide unfinished planks of undulating wood, left behind by Julian Schnabel, who worked in this space back in the day. Rough chocolate-colored burlap is used to create curtained dressing areas in the back and to cover sensors at the door. 
 The clothing is hung on four rows of piping, divided into men's and women's selections, along with narrow tables that present sparsely placed accessories: a purple and yellow rep tie, a snakeskin wallet, an ocher cashmere sweater. The mirrors on the opposing side walls are so big you can check out your clothes scenically, as you might wear them to a party in Duncan Sheik's fabulous 2,300-square-foot TriBeCa loft, for instance. 
 On the day I visited, three breathtakingly beautiful women were working. With their tousled hair, minimal makeup and careful smiles, they were like three different moods of Charlotte Gainsbourg. One set up a dressing room for me.
 I was tempted by a white Western-style shirt with mottled snap buttons, for $138. A hooded cotton fleece sweatshirt had a button collar and a cool silk-screen of an eagle clutching guitars above the revolutionary expression ''We Do Our Part.'' But it was $122, and I just plain old refuse to pay more than $40 for sweats -- my one feeble rule. 
 I coveted pretty much everything else on the racks. I really wanted the green plaid military-style wool jacket for $382, and if I had an abiding trust in our economy right now, I would have charged it on my sad little plain white HSBC debit card. Instead I settled on a cotton poplin shirt with a removable contrasting white collar ($168). When I tried it on, I discovered why my friends were so gaspy: it fit perfectly. Worn with the collar open, the correct amount of chest was exposed -- not too buttoned up, not too Tom Ford. This is an important detail in male cleavage that many shirt makers get wrong. 
 These are clothes that get it right; they whisper: ''Shh. Not so loud.'' Sometimes, when you see a lamb's wool jacquard pullover for $199, they say: ''Shh. You can get this at Uniqlo for way less.''
 But for the most part, you can see why the garments, designed and cut much more expertly than at those overstating fashion superstores, are not cheap. Instead, they hover right below high-fashion prices, so that a beautiful shirt becomes convincingly attainable, and suddenly you forget that you need to pay your quarterly health insurance bill this month.
 It was in this amnesiac state that I stepped in the back room where A.P.C. offers its well-known line of dark denim. I have refrained from buying jeans for the last four years because I was getting freaked out by the trendy whiskering, sanding and detailing going on. Jeans-making is beginning to rival the painful artistry of Chinese calligraphy.
 It was relieving to see these uniformly dark selections, separated neatly in four easy-to-comprehend waist and leg variations. The dark denim style has changed little since the store introduced its Standard jeans back when it opened.
 I tried on a pair of New Standards, which felt sturdy and had a higher waist than the preciously dappled and faded low-rise boot-cut jeans I bought in 2003. They were also only $140, which, coming out of our Baroque Denim period, is a steal. 
 The description of the jeans is yet another example of the measured approach A.P.C. brings to its clothes as it strives to avoid faddish extremes: ''Neither high nor low rise ... arrow leg, slightly fitted at bottom to give the appearance of a straight leg.'' 
 The jeans, the soft poplin, the huge mirrors, the beautiful women -- I guess I was enchanted by A.P.C. But at some point, I began to feel a little imprisoned, too. Not necessarily by the lovely clothes, but by our entire era of perfect fits and meticulous hipness. Part of me wanted to just get naked and wrap myself up in the burlap curtain and scream. I'll save that for the next trend cycle, but I have a feeling Mr. Touitou has designed my outfit already.
 A.P.C.
 131 Mercer Street (near Prince Street); (212) 966-0069
 TRYING ON An unfussy SoHo store of intelligently constructed garments priced right on the high edge of reasonable. 
 SOUNDING OFF The store has its own music label -- compilations of fashiony dance bands, French-Arabic tunes and other obscurities. Go on YouTube and check out the designer himself, Jean Touitou, playing guitar and singing jangly covers of ''As Tears Go By'' and ''Day Tripper'' in a warehouse full of swaying cool people.
 BRANCHING OUT The brand stays under the radar, but opened a store in Los Angeles in June. For the last four years, A.P.C. has collaborated with the British designer Jessica Ogden on Madras, a line of casual clothes (soft henleys, cargo pants, pretty dresses), which will be presented in the store in October.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Unfazed A.P.C. in SoHo is a study in stylish restraint. (pg. G1)(pg. G4)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAUREN LANCASTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION SHOWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); LINGUISTICS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) NEW YORK, USA (67%) FRANCE (74%); UNITED STATES (67%); TUNISIA (55%); JAPAN (53%); HONG KONG (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



126 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: That's Life

BYLINE: By EDWARD O. WILSON. 
Edward O. Wilson, an emeritus professor of biology at Harvard, is the author, most recently, of ''The Creation: An Appeal to Save Life on Earth.''

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
 IN one sense we know much less about Earth than we do about Mars. The vast majority of life forms on our planet are still undiscovered, and their significance for our own species remains unknown. This gap in knowledge is a serious matter: we will never completely understand and preserve the living world around us at our present level of ignorance. We are flying blind into our environmental future.
 Since the Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus inaugurated the modern system of classification two and a half centuries ago, biologists have found and given Latinized names to about 1.8 million species of plants, animals and microorganisms -- an impressive number but probably 10 percent or less of the total. Rough estimates of the number of species that remain to be discovered range from 10 million to more than 100 million. 
 But a new project in biology, an ambitious effort to create a vast new electronic database of known species, should make it possible to discover the remaining 90 percent of species in far less than 250 years, perhaps only one-tenth that time, a single human generation. On May 9 of this year, a consortium of institutions from Harvard and the Smithsonian to The Atlas of Living Australia began compiling The Encyclopedia of Life, which one day will provide single-portal access to all knowledge of living organisms.
 Why bother making such an effort? Because each species from a bacterium to a whale is a masterpiece of evolution. Each has persisted, its mix of genes slowly evolving, for thousands to millions of years. And each is exquisitely adapted to its environment and interlocks with a legion of other species to form the ecosystems upon which our own lives ultimately depend. We need to properly explore Earth's biodiversity if we are to understand, preserve and manage it.
 Recent advances in technology and science have made it possible to compile, and enlarge, The Encyclopedia of Life. The accelerating pace of nucleic acid sequencing allows scientists to read any organism's complete genetic code. A single viral or bacterial species can be decoded in hours, making the immense world of microorganisms -- the ''dark matter of the biosphere'' -- at last open to swift exploration.
 The Encyclopedia of Life will contain an infinitely expandable page for each species, with links as needed, providing whatever is known of the species from its DNA to its place in the environment and its importance to humanity. It will ensure that existing knowledge is freely available to anyone, everywhere, at any time. And, most important, it will accelerate the discovery of the unknown species.
 This should deliver immediately practical benefits. The discovery of wild plant species adaptable for agriculture, medicine and other uses, for example, will be speeded up, while disease-causing bacteria and viruses may be discovered and controlled before they can cause widespread harm. 
 It is crucial that we move quickly, as ecosystems and species are disappearing -- due to habitat destruction, pollution, overpopulation and excessive hunting and fishing, as well as invasive species like fire ants, zebra mussels, bacteria and viruses. Human-caused climate change alone could eliminate a quarter of species during the next five decades.
 What will we and future generations lose if a large part of the living environment continues to disappear? Huge potential stores of scientific information will never exist. Novel classes of pharmaceuticals and future crops will be thrown away. Ecological services like water purification, soil renewal and pollination -- which are approximately equal to the world gross domestic product, and given away by natural ecosystems -- will be diminished. Environmental stability will be harder to achieve.
 The Encyclopedia of Life is science with a deadline. We have set a goal to organize and enter all basic information on the 1.8 million known species within 10 years. This is an ambitious timetable, but it is important to establish the project as big science, on par with the human genome project -- a priority of biology that is ultimately supported with both government and private financing and with the participation of scientists worldwide. Even a partial success will be of incalculable value to humanity, and to the rest of life, for all time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); BACTERIA (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); BIODIVERSITY (77%); DNA (73%); ANIMALS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); MARS (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



127 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Irish Company Allowed to Revamp

BYLINE: By EAMON QUINN

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
An Irish court on Wednesday appointed an examiner to oversee the restructuring of a small financial company as it tried to repay a portion of $238 million owed some of the world's largest investment banks. 
 Justice Mary Finlay Geoghegan ruled that at least a part of the company, Structured Credit, had a reasonable chance to survive if it could raise $125 million from shareholders. She approved Structured Credit's request to restructure rather than liquidate.
 The court also heard details of the amounts that Structured Credit owed the 12 banks. One bank, Morgan Stanley, which favored liquidation, said Structured Credit owed it $93.7 million. 
 Wednesday's hearing was one of the largest commercial cases to be heard by an Irish court, with about 40 lawyers and advisers jammed into a small courtroom. 
 With the ruling, Structured Credit became the latest company to be enveloped by a crisis in subprime lending that has spread in the global credit market.
 The company ran headlong into the crisis when customer demands for collateral climbed from $5 million in late June to $438 million in mid-August. The demands forced the company to seek court protection on Aug. 20 from a creditor, Nomura Bank Holdings, which said it was owed $28 million. 
 With 10 employees and offices in a Georgian-era building overlooking one of the finest 18th-century private squares in central Dublin, Structured Credit worked in a segment of the derivatives market called credit risk transfer. The company raised $207.8 million in early 2006, enough to give it entry into the world's $34.5 trillion derivatives markets.
 The company underwrote derivatives that were intended to offset risk, providing protection for its investment bank customers against losses beyond certain agreed amounts. 
 Since June 2006, the company had signed 48 agreements to pay its 12 customers -- which included Bank of America, Bear Stearns, Citibank, Deutsche Bank, HSBC, Merrill Lynch and UBS -- collateral, in cash, if the derivative contracts it underwrote fell below certain amounts.
 Market specialists say that Structured Credit, because of its size, was probably ill prepared when the crisis hit the derivatives market.
 ''I am surprised that such a small firm is operating in that space. It's usually only the biggest that are involved,'' said Andrew Dillon, managing director of Baronsmead Partners Ireland, a seller of professional indemnity insurance to bankers.
 Started in June 2006, Structured Credit, which was led by Edward M. Bowers, raised $207.8 million from investors that included the private equity fund Aquiline Financial Services in New York; the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers; the Canadian pension fund Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec; the Calyon unit of the Credit Agricole Group; and the American mortgage insurer Triad Guaranty. 
 According to company records, Mr. Bowers set up Structured Credit after working for the mortgage insurer Radian Group. The chairman of Structured Credit, Geoffrey O. Kalish, was a senior principal at the company's largest shareholder, Aquiline.
 From Ireland, the company hired Keith Dignam as its finance director. Mr. Dignam had worked for large American and Irish banks and had advised clients on mortgage-backed securities.
 In March, Structured Credit said as a ''testament'' to its ''potential importance to the Irish economy'' the minister for finance, Brian Cowen, had attended the opening of its offices on Fitzwilliam Square. 
 In its 2006 annual report, the company spelled out its ambitions. It had applied for a banking license in Ireland and had started discussions with the major credit rating agencies in London for a rating. 
 Through a holding company, Structured Credit Holdings, it set up offices in New York and London. And in its first year, the company underwrote $5 billion of derivative credit risk agreements with 12 banks.
 But the seeds of what Structured Credit describes in court documents as an ''unanticipated'' crisis were set during an extraordinary few weeks in July and August.
 In court on Wednesday, reports by an independent auditor, Ernst & Young, showed that during those weeks, Structured Credit posted collateral of $175 million to 10 investment banks. 
 The reports showed that it paid Morgan Stanley $66.4 million; Bear Stearns $29.25 million; Nomura $20.6 million; the French bank Natixis $12.1 million; Bank of America $10.9 million; HSBC $5.1 million; Deutsche Bank $2.6 million; and UBS $2.2 million. 
 The escalation in collateral payments was also laid out in documents Nomura presented to the court on Aug. 17 when the bank sought to have Structured Credit liquidated. At Wednesday's hearing, however, Nomura did not object to the appointment of an examiner. 
 In August court filings, Nomura said that although Structured Credit was able to pay a cash call of $9.47 million on July 27, three other demands were not paid. Other banks, including Nomura, made similar demands, the court heard on Wednesday. By mid-August, cash demands reached $438 million, according to court documents.
 On Aug. 13, according to Nomura filings, Structured Credit wrote its 12 customers to say that because of the ''uniquely challenging market environment,'' it would seek a voluntary liquidation or try to get its 12 customers to agree to cap their cash or collateral demands.
 Four days later, Nomura asked the Irish High Court to liquidate Structured Credit. But on Aug. 20, Structured Credit secured the appointment of an interim examiner, giving it protection from its creditors. 
 Although many of the lawyers involved in the case expected the court to liquidate the company, the judge offered Structured Credit an opportunity to restructure.
 On Wednesday, representatives of Morgan Stanley, Bank of America and Citibank all declined to comment. Mr. Bowers, Structured Credit's chief executive, also declined to comment. 
 Richard Hunter, regional credit officer at Fitch, the credit rating agency in London, said that other companies and banks faced the possible escalation of cash demands similar to the amounts faced by Structured Credit.
 ''I would not be surprised that we had a number of institutions that we rate who had seen their collateral calls move up in that range,'' Mr. Hunter said. ''But most of the companies that we rate have three-digit-billion balance sheets. That type of move, while chunky, is not something that is life threatening'' to bigger companies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (67%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (65%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (64%)

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK SA (60%); CAISSE DE DEPOT & PLACEMENT DU QUEBEC (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (50%); TRIAD GUARANTY INC (50%); RADIAN GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); ACA (PAR) (50%); ACA (BIT) (50%); RDN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (50%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (50%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); QUEBEC, CANADA (50%) IRELAND (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



128 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 783 words

 BODY:
THE BENEFICIARIES OF CHARITY The rich are giving more to charitable causes than ever, but charity costs society money in uncollected taxes. Are the rich helping society as a whole through their giving, or do the gifts tend toward concert halls and libraries at private universities? It's a debate that has split the richest Americans. 
 CONFLICTING REPORTS Stocks fell as investors were thrown by reports that showed the troubles in the housing market were deepening even as a Federal Reserve survey of regional conditions found little evidence of the turmoil having damaged other parts of the economy. [C1.] 
 The European Central Bank said that volatility in credit markets appeared to be returning after a brief period of stability. European stock markets fell nearly 2 percent. [C4.] 
 FINAL CHAPTER FOR BOOKS? 
 Two new offerings this fall, from Amazon.com and Google, are set to test whether consumers want to replace a technology that has reliably served humankind for hundreds of years. [C1.] 
 MORTGAGE REFORMS Democrats in Congress are planning to introduce bills in the coming days that would prohibit a range of practices used to market subprime loans to people with weak credit histories or low incomes. [C1.] 
 APPLE CUTS PRICE OF IPHONE
 Apple, which rarely drops the prices on its products, unexpectedly cut the price of its iPhone, claiming that it was seeking to broaden the market for the popular but expensive phone for the Christmas season. Investors appeared to interpret the announcement negatively. Apple's stock fell more than 5 percent. [C1.] 
 FOUR YEARS FOR TAX EVADER Richard Josephberg, who was indicted earlier this year for not paying taxes for nearly three decades, was sentenced in White Plains to more than four years in prison. [C3.] 
 DREAMLINER'S DELAY Boeing will delay the first test flight of the 787 Dreamliner by about three months, the first significant setback to the development of the fastest-selling commercial aircraft in history. [C9.] 
 CHECK THE LABEL The ''buy American'' movement, long popular among blue-collar union workers and lunch-pail conservatives, is now drawing in more liberal consumers who are seeking goods labeled ''locally made'' that may need fewer carbon emissions to reach the market, and who worry about overseas sweatshop labor. [E1.] 
 CITIGROUP TO SHUT HEDGE FUND Citigroup said that it was shutting down its Tribeca Capital Management hedge fund, in the first significant move since Vikram S. Pandit took over its alternative investment group. [C3.] 
 TAKING THE WHEEL A humorous campaign from BMW asks consumers to reminisce about a time in their lives they might have sought to forget: learning to drive. The campaign's Web site presents nine characters (including a carpet salesman, above) who are intended to represent the people who helped most Americans learn to drive. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.] 
 SAKS SETTLES CHARGES Saks Inc., which sells clothing from designers like Oscar de La Renta and Michael Kors, settled federal charges that it had improperly collected payments from several of those luxury suppliers to inflate its earnings. [C12.] 
 SERVING SUGGESTIONS A grocery store chain based in Maine that used a rating system to direct customers to healthier foods said that sales of leaner cuts of meat and skim milk increased during the year-old experiment. [C3.] 
 IRISH FIRM ALLOWED TO REVAMP An Irish court appointed an examiner to oversee the restructuring of a small financial company as it tried to repay a portion of $238 million owed some of the world's largest investment banks. [C4.] 
 ELIMINATING JUNK MAIL Pankaj Shah may be the only chief executive in Silicon Valley striving to put himself out of business. His company is seeking to make millions of tons of unwanted mail go the way of pesky phone solicitations. Small Business. [C5.] 
 CHEMICAL IN POPCORN RECIPE The nation's largest microwave popcorn maker, ConAgra Foods, said that it would change the recipe for its Orville Redenbacher and Act II brands over the next year to remove a flavoring chemical linked to a lung ailment in popcorn plant workers. [C12.] 
 GADGET LUST Anyone who has ever wanted the smallest, quickest, slickest or simply the newest gadget knows the feeling of searching the world, wading into the riskiest online bazaars, grappling with manuals written in foreign languages, all to get that hard-to-find object of obsession. Basics. [C7.] 
 two guilty pleas A former Morgan Stanley finance vice president and her husband, a former hedge fund analyst at ING Investment Management, pleaded guilty in Manhattan to conspiracy and insider trading as part of a federal crackdown. [C5.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); SMARTPHONES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); SENTENCING (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (72%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); GARMENT WORKERS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); SWEATSHOPS (61%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); EMISSIONS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); SAKS INC (80%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (71%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); GOOGLE INC (56%); BOEING CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); SKS (NYSE) (80%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



129 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Prepare Bills To Tighten Loan Rules

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Democrats in Congress are planning to introduce bills in the coming days that would prohibit a range of practices used to market subprime loans to people with weak credit histories or low incomes.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee and a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, said on Wednesday that he would introduce a bill that would prohibit mortgage brokers from steering people into subprime loans if they qualify for cheaper conventional mortgages. 
 The bill would also ban hidden brokerage fees that are rolled into higher interest rates and prepayment penalties that make it difficult for people to refinance. 
 Similar prohibitions are in a draft bill being circulated in the House by Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the Financial Services Committee. Mr. Frank is studying ways to hold investment funds that buy subprime loans liable for any practices that violate new rules against ''predatory lending.''
 ''We're in agreement on all those things,'' Mr. Frank said on Wednesday, adding that he hoped to have his committee approve a bill before the end of October.
 But mortgage lenders, a powerful lobbying force in Washington with considerable support from Republicans, are certain to fight the Democratic proposals. 
 Mortgage industry executives contend that some disputed practices, like prepayment penalties, offer crucial assurances to investors and help widen the pool of money available to low-income borrowers. 
 ''I would urge against Congress making ham-handed interventions in the markets,'' said Representative Richard H. Baker, Republican of Louisiana, at a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee. 
 The draft bills highlight the increased urgency among Democrats about responding to the recent meltdown in mortgage markets, particularly for subprime loans, and to a rising wave of home foreclosures as low initial teaser rates on about two million subprime loans must be reset by the end of 2008.
 Mr. Dodd's comments were an attempt to take control of an issue that some other Democrats, including Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, had been discussing for some time. 
 As recently as two weeks ago, Mr. Dodd told reporters that he saw little need for legislation because many problems confronting homeowners could be addressed by federal and state banking regulators.
 But on Wednesday, Mr. Dodd said, ''Predatory lending needs to be stopped, which is why I intend to introduce legislation that will put an end to practices that have forced thousands of Americans into foreclosure.'' 
 The Dodd and Frank bills are aimed primarily at subprime mortgages, which are made to people with poor credit ratings or low incomes and which carry higher interest rates than more traditional loans. 
 Subprime lending has grown at an explosive pace for the last decade, with about $1.2 trillion outstanding. The practice has helped increase the share of families that own their homes to a record 69 percent, from about 65 percent a few years ago. Much of that increase has been among minorities. 
 But the delinquency rate on subprime loans has soared to about 13 percent, and most analysts predict that it will climb much higher. Mortgage lenders sharply lowered their underwriting standards in 2005 and 2006, using low introductory interest rates to lure hundreds of thousands of people into borrowing more than they could afford. 
 Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com, predicted that 20 percent of all subprime mortgages made in 2006 will be in foreclosure by 2011.
 The Democratic proposals would attack several practices that advocacy groups for low-income homeowners have singled out. The first is prepayment penalties, which are rare for borrowers with good credit but common among subprime borrowers. The penalties make it very expensive for a person to refinance a subprime mortgage in less than two years, and sometimes in less than three years. 
 Defenders of prepayment penalties say they reduce the risks for investors who buy mortgages and thus help provide capital for low-income home buyers. Defenders also note that such penalties allow a lender to offer the low initial teaser rates, which were highly popular with many borrowers. 
 The Democratic measures would also restrict if not prohibit so-called yield spread premiums, which are sales commissions to mortgage brokers that are largely invisible to home buyers because they are paid through a higher loan rate rather than through an upfront payment. Critics argue that yield spread premiums are deceptive, but defenders say they benefit many borrowers who have little cash to pay the upfront closing costs on a loan.
 The Democratic bills would also prohibit mortgage brokers from ''steering'' customers into taking a subprime loan even if they qualify for conventional mortgages. Some analysts have estimated that 20 percent to 40 percent of people who now have subprime loans could qualify for cheaper fixed rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PREDATORY LENDING (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAIR LENDING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (89%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



130 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 545 words

PERSON: Jennifer Dunn 

HEADLINE: Jennifer Dunn, 66, Former Washington Representative

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Former Representative Jennifer Dunn, who represented part of the Seattle area for six terms and became one of the most powerful Republicans in Congress, died Wednesday at her home in Alexandria, Va. She was 66. 
 The cause was a pulmonary embolism, her son Reagan, a councilman in King County, Wash., told The Seattle Post-Intelligencer. 
 Ms. Dunn joined a Washington, D.C., lobbying firm after retiring in early 2005. Despite President Bush's urging, she declined to challenge Senator Patty Murray, a Democrat, in 2004. Ms. Dunn was newly married at the time and said she wanted to spend more time with her family.
 Ms. Dunn represented the Eighth Congressional District, covering most of the eastern edge of metropolitan Seattle. Hers was the most affluent district in the state (Bill Gates built a 66,000-square-foot home there), according to the Almanac of American Politics, which described her as ''a peppery partisan, vigorous and knowledgeable about issues, persevering through bad times for her party and working to make them better.''
 Ms. Dunn was the first woman to lead the Washington State Republican Party, serving as chairwoman for 12 years starting in 1981. After her election to Congress in 1992, she became the first freshman woman to win a place on the House Republican leadership team and was given a coveted seat on the Ways and Means Committee. Later, she was the highest-ranking woman in the House Republican Conference, serving as its vice chairwoman.
 In late 1998, after Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia stepped down as speaker following a strong showing by Democrats in the Congressional elections, Ms. Dunn unsuccessfully challenged Representative Dick Armey of Texas for the post of majority leader. But two months later, Republicans cheered her performance and that of Representative Steve Largent of Oklahoma in giving the Republican response to President Bill Clinton's State of the Union speech. 
 Ms. Dunn's voting record was generally conservative on economic and foreign policy issues and more moderate on cultural issues. In a 1993 letter, she described her stance on abortion: ''As a conservative, I hold the 'libertarian' belief that government ought not to be involved in this most difficult and personal of decisions.'' But she also said that she opposed federal payments for abortions except in cases of rape or incest or to save the life of the woman, and that she supported requiring parental notification. 
 Ms. Dunn tried to close what she saw as a gender gap for Republicans, urging candidates to relate to women's lives. She often spoke, for instance, about the problems she faced as a divorced working mother after her marriage to Dennis Dunn ended in 1977.
 Ms. Dunn's political values were formed early. Her father, John Blackburn, a fishing-equipment salesman turned real estate broker in the Seattle area, was an outspoken conservative. Ms. Dunn graduated from Stanford University in 1963, worked as a systems engineer for I.B.M. for several years and became an ardent supporter of Ronald Reagan well before he was elected governor of California in 1966. 
 In addition to her son Reagan, Ms. Dunn is survived by her husband, Keith Thomson; another son, Bryant; a stepson, Angus Thomson; and two grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jennifer Dunn (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALPH RADFORD/ASSOCIATED PRESS, 2003) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (75%); MARRIAGE (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); ABORTION (61%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

BILL CLINTON (73%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



131 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Albany's Investigations Overshadow Lawmaking

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Nicholas Confessore contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
A summer of scandal here derailed much of the actual business of state government and left Gov. Eliot Spitzer and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, barely on speaking terms. 
 Expect another season of political turmoil ahead.
 Tensions between the two men boiled over in July, when Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo issued a scathing report finding that members of the governor's staff had misused the State Police as part of a plan to discredit Mr. Bruno, the state's top Republican.
 Relations were further eroded last month when a top political consultant of Mr. Bruno's, Roger J. Stone Jr., was accused of leaving a threatening message on the voice mail of the governor's 83-year-old father, Bernard Spitzer. 
 Now the two sides of the aisle are digging in for a prolonged political fight. 
 The latest round comes on Thursday, when Senate Republicans are expected to question Kristine Hamann, the inspector general and a Spitzer appointee, during a public hearing into the State Police imbroglio.
 Some Republicans contend that Ms. Hamann conducted a halfhearted investigation of the governor's staff, quietly suspended it before she was finished and failed to confer subpoena power to Mr. Cuomo, which would have allowed the attorney general to compel the governor's top aides to testify. Ms. Hamann adamantly disagrees and has defended her handling of the inquiry. 
 The hearing, held by the Senate Committee on Investigations and Government Operations, is one of several potential Senate inquiries into the Spitzer administration. The Senate's Elections Committee is also considering investigating loans the governor's father made to Mr. Spitzer to finance his 1994 and 1998 campaigns for attorney general. 
 Neither Mr. Bruno nor the Elections Committee's chairman, Senator Joseph A. Griffo, would rule out seeking testimony from the governor's father, a move that would be sure to escalate tensions in Albany. 
 Senate Democrats have also called for an investigation of Mr. Stone, who has been dismissed by Mr. Bruno but denied that he left the threatening message.
 What remains unclear is when lawmakers will return for business in this poisonous atmosphere, and what if anything they can get done. A number of potential agreements on various issues, from campaign finance reform to requirements for government construction jobs, have unraveled, and a date for legislators to return to Albany has not yet been set, slipping from September to October to ''to be announced.'' 
 ''We have to make a determination that we are all on the same page in terms of continuing to do the people's business,'' said Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the Legislature's top Democrat, who has become an intermediary between the governor and Mr. Bruno in recent months. 
 ''The politics of attacking that's been taking place will have to be set aside to accomplish the things everyone says they want to accomplish, like reducing property taxes'' and ''addressing the upstate economy,'' Mr. Silver said.
 Mr. Silver said that the staffs continued to negotiate and that it would most likely become clear over the next week whether deals could be reached on a number of issues that have been in limbo for several months, including agreement on capital financing for an array of public projects.
 The governor's staff continues to be under legal duress. On Friday, the governor's communications director, Darren Dopp, is scheduled to submit to a second round of questioning from the Albany County district attorney, P. David Soares, who is conducting his own inquiry in the wake of the Cuomo report. 
 Mr. Dopp was suspended without pay for his role in the Bruno matter but was recently put back on the payroll, though he is using vacation time while the governor considers a likely reassignment for him. 
 Mr. Bruno has his own troubles. In another part of Albany on Thursday, the Temporary Commission on Lobbying will hold a public session; among the cases they are investigating are flights provided to Mr. Bruno by Jared E. Abbruzzese, a friend whose business interests have received state grants given at Mr. Bruno's discretion. 
 Mr. Abbruzzese has also been a central figure in a continuing inquiry by the Federal Bureau of Investigation into Mr. Bruno's outside business interests. 
 The appearance of Ms. Hamann should make for interesting political theater; she has been a particular target of Republican ire. 
 She conducted a parallel but separate investigation with Mr. Cuomo, and concurred in his findings, but quietly suspended her inquiry when she learned that her direct supervisor, Richard Baum, the secretary to the governor, might have been involved. Mr. Baum has said he did not know of anything improper.
 Republicans say that Ms. Hamann could have transferred her subpoena authority to the attorney general.
 ''The simple question is whether she had the legal ability to refer, why she didn't and whether there was an intent to cover up,'' John McArdle, Mr. Bruno's spokesman, said. 
 In a recent interview with The New York Times, Ms. Hamann said she did not have the legal ability to refer the case and transfer her subpoena authority.
 In a later exchange of letters with Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who wrote the statute creating the inspector general's office, Ms. Hamann said she did have the authority to refer cases to the attorney general and other investigative bodies, but did not always have the authority to transfer her power to issue subpoenas. 
 Mr. Bruno made clear on Wednesday that he was not ready to let the inquiries drop. 
 ''The danger for the citizens, for the 19 million people in this state, is that people in powerful positions are out to get you,'' he said. ''They don't like what you're doing? They're going to get you. Not just beat you -- destroy you. It's a huge danger in a democracy. And that's the concern.''
 Christine Anderson, the governor's press secretary, said, ''It's unfortunate that while the governor is trying to focus on the business of the state, some seem determined to try to focus on pure politics rather than the people's business.''
 Governor Spitzer, visiting a high school near Binghamton yesterday, snapped, ''Get a life, buddy,'' at a television reporter who asked several questions about the Bruno affair, The Associated Press reported.
 Mr. Silver said investigations by the district attorney and the State Ethics Commission should be allowed to play out. 
 ''It's all politics,'' he said of the Senate's inquiries. He added, ''It's time to govern.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Joseph L. Bruno, center, with Ron Thaniel, director of government affairs for Amtrak. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007



132 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1836 words

HEADLINE: America's Guardian Myths

BYLINE: By SUSAN FALUDI. 
Susan Faludi is the author, most recently, of the forthcoming ''The Terror Dream: Fear and Fantasy in Post-9/11 America.''

 BODY:
San Francisco
 AT length they came and beset our own house, and quickly it was the dolefulest day that ever mine eyes saw.'' Thus did a minister's wife, Mary Rowlandson, describe the Indian attack and immolation of her Massachusetts village, 35 miles west of Boston. ''On the 10th of February 1675 came the Indians with great numbers upon Lancaster,'' she wrote. ''Their first coming was about sun-rising. Hearing the noise of some guns, we looked out; several houses were burning, and the smoke ascending to heaven.'' 
 Rowlandson was one of the fortunate that morning: she and her three children were spared and taken captive. Her youngest, a 6-year-old daughter, died in her arms on the forced march north. After 11 harrowing weeks, Rowlandson was released and a few years later wrote ''A Narrative of the Captivity and Restoration of Mrs. Mary Rowlandson,'' which would run through four printings in its first year and become America's original best seller, the model of the captivity narrative, the foremost indigenous genre of American literature. 
 Huddled inside the garrison, with ''the smoke ascending to heaven,'' Mary Rowlandson and the other villagers faced a choice that echoes grimly through the commemorations of our own ''dolefulest day'': whether to stay inside and burn, or plunge into certain death. The parallels between the Lancaster ordeal and the catastrophe we faced on 9/11 are not incidental. Rowlandson's story holds a key to our own experience, shedding light on not only the trauma of the day itself but our response. On a deep cultural and psychological level, our reactions as a nation to 9/11 had as much to do with Mary Rowlandson as with Mohamed Atta.
 In the weeks and months after 9/11, many commentators described the ''dream-like'' mindset that the disaster had induced. They attributed our fugue state to the ''unimaginable'' unreality of the event. Nothing like this had ever happened before. But essential to our understanding of what that attack means to our national psyche is a recognition that it did happen before, over and over. And its happening was instrumental to the formation of the American character. The nation that recently imagined itself so impervious to attack at home was gestated in a time when such attacks were the prevailing reality of American life. 
 The assault on Lancaster came several months into King Philip's War (or Metacom's Rebellion, for those who prefer the actual name of the Wampanoag chief). That fearsome and formative confrontation between white settlers and the New England tribes remains, per capita, America's deadliest war. In one year, one of every 10 white men of military age in Massachusetts Bay was killed, and one of every 16 in the Northeastern colonies. Two-thirds of New England towns were attacked and more than half the settlements were left in ruins. Settlers were forced to retreat nearly to the coast, and the Colonial economy was devastated. 
 The bitterness unleashed on both sides would initiate a harrowing series of conflicts -- King William's War, Queen Anne's War, King George's War, the French and Indian War -- that dragged on into the second half of the 18th century. Caught in these coils, early American settlers dwelled in a state of perpetual insecurity -- ''an atmosphere of terror,'' as the frontier historian Richard Slotkin characterized it, in which colonists wandered as if in an ''Indian-haunted dreamland.'' It was an insecurity that would continue to afflict settlers pressing westward through the early decades of the 19th century.
 What is the relevance of all this to 9/11 and its aftermath? Surely, given the historical forgetfulness of Americans, not many people know Rowlandson's name or recall her era's conflicts. Nevertheless, that Colonial travail profoundly shaped our modern society and lives on in our world view, whether we are conscious of it or not. Our original ''war on terrorism'' bequeathed us a heritage that haunts our reaction to crises like the one that struck on that crisp, clear morning in the late summer of 2001. 
 Even our amnesia is evidence of this haunting, because the amnesia was not natural. It was intentionally induced by the creation of a myth, a fable of national invincibility on the American frontier. Beginning in the 18th century and culminating in the Victorian era, journalists, novelists, artists and sculptors concocted a fantasy that supplanted memories of vulnerability and terror on the Northeastern borderlands with tales of conquest and victory on the Great Plains.
 By the mid-1700s, a new frontier literature emerged, starring battle-hardened and wilderness-savvy frontiersmen who could take on the Indians, the French and, eventually, the British. And captivity narratives were rewritten to emphasize, or invent, tableaus of feminine weakness: Elizabeth Hanson's ''God's Mercy Surmounting Man's Cruelty'' was altered three times by editors from 1728 to 1760 to present her as an increasingly passive and fragile creature ''in a poor weak condition'' who was ''very unfit to endure the hardships'' of her captivity.
 A defining aspect of this cultural re-engineering was the upending of a gender history that had proved deeply humiliating to men. Time and again, leaders and militias had failed to protect and redeem women and their children. Of female colonists seized in New England and taken to Canada from 1689 to 1730, more than a quarter -- and a whopping 60 percent between the ages of 12 and 21 -- never came home. 
 Early American male defenders had suffered the further mortification of hearing female captives (Mary Rowlandson among them) disparage their protective efforts gone awry or, worse, recount how they managed to defend themselves. Rowlandson negotiated shrewdly with her captors and named her own ransom. Hannah Duston, abducted as she lay in bed recovering from childbirth (while her husband fled), escaped after killing a family of Indians with a hatchet and taking their scalps. 
 In response to this shame, the new model exaggerated iron-clad valor on the part of white men and crinoline helplessness on the part of white women. Thus was born the dime-store melodrama in which manly heroics always save the girl in jeopardy. As the historian Roy Harvey Pearce observed in 1947, the captivity narrative was refashioned into America's ''terroristic vehicle,'' our verbal armor against our oldest national nightmare. That wholesale overhaul would inform the plots of everything from ''The Last of the Mohicans'' to countless television westerns to Steven Spielberg's post-9/11 drama, ''War of the Worlds.'' 
 Sept. 11 cracked the plaster on that master narrative of American prowess because it so exactly duplicated the terms of the early Indian wars, right down to the fecklessness of our leaders and the failures of our military strategies. Like its early American antecedents, the 9/11 attack was a homeland incursion against civilian targets by non-European, non-Christian combatants who fought under the flag of no recognized nation. Like the ''different type of war'' heralded by President Bush, the 17th and 18th century ''troubles'' -- as one Puritan chronicler of Metacom's Rebellion called them, refusing to grant them ''the name of a war'' -- seemed to have no battlefield conventions, no constraints and no end.
 Unfortunately, by replicating the Colonial war on terrorism, 9/11 invited us to re-enact the post-Colonial solution, to bury our awareness of our vulnerability under belligerent posturing and comforting fantasy. 
 Like the cultural imagineers before them, our post-9/11 press, entertainers and political spin doctors set to work to prop up our sense of virile indomitability -- ''the return of the manly man'' and a reconstituted ''John Wayne masculinity'' were on every media lip, as the triumphs of torture-prone Jack Bauer heroes were on every TV. The 2004 presidential campaign was given a Western stage set -- with the candidates proving their ability to assume the mantle of Crockett in Chief by bragging about their gun collections, hacking at brush and tree stumps and shooting at wild animals. (John Kerry spent so much time in hunting camouflage that he was dubbed ''John the Deerslayer.'') 
 Also restored was the defense of helpless femininity. Witness the Bush administration's much-trumpeted claims to be saving Afghan women from their burqas and Iraqi women from Saddam Hussein's ''rape rooms.'' Or the military's much-ballyhooed ''rescue'' of Pvt. Jessica Lynch (albeit from a hospital whose caregivers had tried to return her to American forces, but had been driven back by American gunfire). Or the invention of a supposedly huge new voting bloc of ''security moms,'' trembling-lipped homemakers desperate to re-elect the sheriff who would keep terrorists from their suburban ranches. 
 Or ''The Hug,'' the photo op that was turned into the most expensive political ad of the 2004 race, in which President Bush embraced a teenage girl whose mother had died in the World Trade Center. In the commercial, which analysts viewed as the most effective of Mr. Bush's campaign, the girl told voters, ''He's the most powerful man in the world, and all he wants to do is make sure I'm safe.''
 Such reversions have led us in some terrible and self-destructive directions -- loss of civil liberties, endorsement of torture and a misbegotten war paramount among them -- because they are based on a need to deny, not address, a disturbing national reality. But we shouldn't be so afraid to countenance the ghosts of our Mary Rowlandsons. 
 The founders of our country were steeped in the experience of Metacom's Rebellion. In the Revolutionary era, Rowlandson herself had a curtain call as an American icon: her book was reissued in the 1770s and once again achieved popularity, along with the narratives of a number of other women who had endured trials in the embattled wilderness. It was in these very times, with recent knowledge of domestic attack, that our founders expanded, not contracted, the concept of democracy, authoring the very liberties we have been tempted to renounce in our own time of ''troubles.''
 If the polls recording widespread disenchantment with the Iraq war and the Bush administration's performance are any indication, we may finally -- a half-dozen years after 9/11 -- be prepared to ask some hard questions about our response. That suggests we may be at a moment of clarity and, hence, of great possibility. By returning us to the trauma that produced our national myth, the 9/11 attacks present the opportunity to look past the era of buckskin bravado and unlock the cabinet wherein lies America's deepest formative fear, the fear of home-soil terrorism. 
 One ultimate casualty of Metacom's Rebellion was the Puritans' determination to face that fear. By revisiting our ancient drama, 9/11 gives us a chance to regainthat abandoned resolve, to see our frailties in a realistic light, instead of papering them over with dangerous delusions.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDREA DEZSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); LITERATURE (68%); LITERATURE GENRES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



133 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: After Long Dispute, a Russian Starbucks

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: KHIMKI, Russia, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
With the hiss of an espresso machine and a note in Russian explaining the meanings of ''tall,'' ''grande'' and ''venti,'' Starbucks opened its first coffee shop in Russia on Thursday in a mall in this city near Moscow. 
 The opening sealed a victory for the company in a fight with a trademark squatter who had kept Starbucks from coming to Russia for more than three years, just as a coffeehouse culture was emerging here. Starbucks refused to pay the squatter to yield the Starbucks name in Russia and eventually prevailed in court. 
 The dispute illustrates the challenges Starbucks will face as it strives to expand outside the United States, where growth is expected to slow. Starbucks intends to open 20,000 coffee shops overseas while expanding to about that number at home. 
 With the opening of the first Russian cafe, Starbucks, which is based in Seattle, now operates in 43 countries, said Carole Pucik, a Starbucks spokeswoman. The company plans to open a flagship Russian shop on Old Arbat Street, a prime address in downtown Moscow, later this year. ''We see lots of opportunity here,'' Ms. Pucik said. 
 The menu of basic coffee drinks is the same as in the United States, and indeed everywhere in the world, Ms. Pucik said. The sandwiches and baked goods are adapted for local tastes. The Russian shop, for example, offers a mushroom-and-cheese sandwich. 
 In Russia, the prices are a reflection of the oil-driven economic boom here. A tall filter coffee costs 75 rubles, or about $2.92. The most expensive item on the menu was a venti mocha, for 230 rubles, or about $8.96. A venti mocha at Starbucks in New York costs $4.71. 
 Starbucks first registered its trademark in Russia in 1997 but did not open any shops here because of the economic crisis of 1998. Then in 2002, as the Russian economy was picking up again, Sergei A. Zuykov filed a request with Russian authorities to cancel the chain's trademark because it had not been used in commerce in Russia. He then registered Starbucks in the name of a Moscow company he represented as a lawyer. 
 Mr. Zuykov, a lawyer and a former car alarm salesman who says he has claimed many brands, defended his stake on the name Starbucks for three years, saying that if Starbucks would pay $600,000, he would abandon his registration. The company refused to pay. 
 He lost his case in November 2005 as Russia stepped up its bid for membership in the World Trade Organization and hewed closer to international standards for the protection of intellectual property. 
 Despite this setback, which allowed competitors a head start, Starbucks said it saw plenty of room for more coffee shops in Russia. Ms. Pucik, the Starbucks spokeswoman, cited data from Euromonitor International, a market research company, showing that Moscow has one coffeehouse for every 3,187 people. New York has one for every 365 people, and Paris one for every 126.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The first Starbucks in Russia opened yesterday in a mall near Moscow. The company was slow to enter this market, initially because of the economy and later because of a trademark squatter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY Alexander Natruskin/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); TRADEMARKS (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); LAWYERS (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); MARKET RESEARCH (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



134 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: A Strike Exposes an Industry's Divide

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
While it may have been hard at times to hail a cab during a two-day taxi strike that was expected to end this morning, it was harder still for many New Yorkers to understand the bitter dynamic the work stoppage revealed in a deeply divided industry. 
 ''Cab driving historically has been heavily fragmented,'' said Graham Hodges, a history professor at Colgate University and the author of the book ''Taxi! A Social History of the New York City Cabdriver'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2007). 
 The strike centered on a dispute over a high-tech credit card and vehicle tracking system being mandated for all cabs. It was led by the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, which says it represents 10,000 drivers. The group's energetic executive director, Bhairavi Desai, has become an easily recognizable voice for New York taxi drivers since she began an organizing campaign in the 1990s.
 But the alliance has been opposed, sometimes with strong language, by many others in the industry. 
 One of the most vocal groups has been the New York State Federation of Taxi Drivers, which claims to have 7,000 yellow-cab drivers among a membership that also includes drivers of livery cabs and black cars. Fernando Mateo, the group's founder, urged drivers not to strike, and asked the police to protect drivers who went out on the street.
 Others who had opposed the strike included groups representing taxi fleet owners and others in the industry. 
 True to form yesterday, the warring sides had vastly different interpretations of the strike. Ms. Desai said that about 10,000 of the city's 13,000 taxicabs stayed off the road yesterday. On the first day of the strike, she said that 90 percent of cabs were off the streets. She predicted that the city would ultimately be forced to back down and either change aspects of the technology package for cabs or abandon it altogether. 
 Ms. Desai said that her group would try to add members and build on what she called ''an unprecedented mobilization in this industry,'' hinting at possible future actions. ''We basically had two solid days that have given us the experience to perfect our skills,'' she said. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said he will not change course on the taxi technology, and City Hall officials said that they were not negotiating with Ms. Desai. Mr. Bloomberg said that about 82 percent of fleet cabs were rolling yesterday, up from 75 percent the day before. The city had instituted an emergency fare system for the duration of the strike, dividing the city into fare zones, and many drivers who worked said that it allowed them to make far more money than on a typical day. 
 ''They're working very hard out there and maybe they deserve it,'' the mayor said yesterday at a news conference. 
 The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which tracks cabs at Kennedy International and La Guardia Airports, said that in an average day there are a total of about 17,000 yellow cab pickups at the two airports. On Wednesday, the authority said there were about half that number, and yesterday there was about two-thirds of the regular volume. A spokesman said that dispatchers were still placing more than one rider in many cabs to make up for the shortfall and that as a result, waits were minimal. Throughout Midtown, there were visibly more cabs on the streets as well.
 A city official said the emergency fare measures were expected to be lifted this morning.
 But Mr. Hodges said that given the nature of the taxi industry, it was significant that several thousand drivers appeared to have stayed home over two days. He said that many drivers were living day to day and that ''these are people who just can't afford to strike.'' 
 ''They don't have any strike fund,'' he said. ''That's why you have a two-day strike rather than one that's extended. The fact that they got as many as they have is quite impressive.''
 The Taxi and Limousine Commission says that there are 13,087 taxi medallions. More than 3,200 of the medallions are affixed to cabs run by fleet operators, the commission said. A large portion of the remainder are leased by people who own their cabs, although they may lease the vehicle out to other drivers. About 44,000 drivers hold a hack license, but not all drive full time, the commission says.
 Edward G. Rogoff, a professor of management at Baruch College who has studied the taxi industry, said that it had increasingly become divided between a small group of wealthy medallion owners and a vast pool of drivers who occupied one of the lower positions in the city's economy. 
 ''They're urban transportation sharecroppers,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''They lease a medallion for a fixed price for a fixed period of time and they absorb all the risk as to whether it rains. And they're unhappy because the system is fundamentally unfair to them and they know that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Top, taxis at Grand Central Terminal yesterday. Also near Grand Central, a cabby studied a map of temporary fare zones. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); HISTORY (77%); STRIKES (77%); CITIES (75%); FLEET MANAGEMENT (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); WRITERS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TELEMATICS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



135 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Rate of Home Foreclosures Hits Record

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6 (Reuters) 

 BODY:
The rate of home loans in foreclosure rose to a record level in the second quarter of 2007 as more homeowners in California, Florida and other states could not refinance their adjustable-rate mortgages, a trade group said on Thursday. 
 The Mortgage Bankers Association said 0.65 percent of loans entered foreclosure on a seasonally adjusted basis, 7 basis points higher than the previous quarter and 22 basis points higher than a year earlier.
 It was the third consecutive quarter in which the foreclosure rate rose to a record-setting level, and the worst is probably still ahead, the group said.
 ''Where we might have suggested only one to three quarters to go, it is likely that has been extended to some degree and we will see delinquencies and foreclosure rise,'' said Douglas G. Duncan, the group's chief economist.
 The peak of loan failures might not hit for another year or more as many borrowers face increased payments on their adjustable-rate loans, he said.
 Foreclosures increased as the rate of delinquency on subprime loans, which are offered to borrowers with poor credit, rose to 14.82 percent in the second quarter, from 13.77 percent at the end of the first three months of 2007, and from 11.7 percent in the year-ago period.
 While the national rate of failed loans continued to rise, the problems were concentrated in several states that registered the largest price gains during the housing boom, the trade association said.
 ''What continues to drive the national numbers,'' Mr. Duncan said, ''is what is happening in the states of California, Florida, Nevada and Arizona.'' 
 Home buyers in those four states relied on the low introductory costs of adjustable-rate mortgages. Payments on many of those loans are expected to climb over the next year or so.
 The national foreclosure rate excluding those four states actually declined in the quarter, Mr. Duncan said. 
 Delinquencies ''have gone up, and that's expected,'' said Dan Seto, senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management. But ''they haven't gone up to the degree that the markets have priced in; these are not disastrous numbers.''
 One of every hundred home loans in Michigan entered foreclosure in the last quarter, while Ohio had twice the national average of loans in serious arrears, according to the data.
 Mr. Duncan said that loans to strong borrowers in fixed-rate mortgages continued to perform well even as subprime and adjustable-rate loans slid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



136 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: In Realty, Cues for an Exit

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER

 BODY:
Even when Leon Maldonado was getting his real estate license three years ago, he saw that the red-hot housing market in San Diego was beginning to cool. But he decided to forge ahead.
 For a while, optimism kept him going, but after few sales and fewer prospects, Mr. Maldonado finally gave up this year.
 ''When I tell people I got out, everyone understands,'' said Mr. Maldonado, 24, who now collects a steady paycheck, from a health care staffing company. ''It's the best decision I ever made.''
 Many people rushed into residential real estate sales when the booming housing market made a license to sell homes seem like the closest thing to a sure bet at the casino. But now, as the housing market slows to a crawl, those new agents and a good number of more established ones are looking for other employment. 
 The number of people taking the real estate sales exam in California soared from a little more than 2,000 a month in the late 1990s to a peak of nearly 20,000 in April 2005, according to the California Department of Real Estate. But by July 2007, the number had dropped to 8,000. Similar patterns are seen in other states.
 ''It's a perfect storm for real estate agents,'' said Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an online brokerage in Seattle. ''Not only have unprecedented numbers flocked to the profession, but at the same time you have the mortgage meltdown, the housing bubble bursting, and online competitors attacking the commission structure.''
 Traditional real estate agents, who depend entirely on commissions, ''are beset on all sides,'' Mr. Kelman said.
 Indeed, membership in the National Association of Realtors, the national trade group and lobbying organization for the sales side of the housing industry, increased by 163,000 in 2005, to almost 1.3 million members, but grew by only 6,000 in the first six months of this year.
 When an entry-level middle-class home in major markets on either coast lists at $500,000 and pays out a 6 percent sales commission, it is easy to see how an agent could get excited. In reality, the agent's commission, after splits with other agents and the brokerage company, is closer to about 1.5 percent. Even so, sell 10 homes a year, and you are making a fine living. 
 The problem is that when everyone else jumps into the field, few new agents can hope to sell more than one or two homes a year. According to the National Association of Realtors, agents earn an average of $49,000 a year. 
 That is an income Randy Haddadin would have welcomed. Mr. Haddadin, 38, moved to Miami Beach in December 2003 from Washington, after leaving a job in information technology. He promptly got his real estate license.
 Mr. Haddadin had a few disadvantages. He was new to the business and new to Miami Beach. And newcomers have an especially difficult time in a business that requires constant networking, most crucially during slowdowns.
 ''I didn't really go out and network like I should have,'' Mr. Haddadin said, with a tinge of self-recrimination. Even if he had distributed bushels of business cards, he said, there was nothing he could have done about the bad timing. ''It wasn't a time for someone not from this area to start,'' he said.
 Mr. Haddadin is now weighing his options. He might seek a job in information technology again, or perhaps help a friend open an Italian restaurant in Miami Beach, while selling real estate on the side.
 Chang-Tai Hsieh, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, who has studied the economics of real estate, said he was not surprised to see that agents in South Florida were getting out. ''When the price of housing goes up, you have people jump in, and when the price of housing falls, people jump out,'' he said.
 Professor Hsieh said this was generally true across the nation. In areas where housing prices have fallen significantly, such as Miami, the number of agents falls commensurately. If a market remains relatively steady, he said, so does the number of agents. 
 And for those who stay in the business, the 80-20 rule applies. ''Eighty percent of the business is done by 20 percent of the people,'' said Jay Costello, president of Hill & Company, a brokerage in San Francisco. And those, he added, tend to be well-established, well-connected agents.
 Some who want to stay in the business are taking a second look at working for commissions. ''People who used to turn up their nose at working for us are now drilling holes to get into the building,'' said Mr. Kelman of Redfin, which pays a salary and a bonus based on customer satisfaction. 
 He said that during the first six months of 2007, Redfin received 2,000 resumes and hired 34 agents, bringing the total at Redfin to 40. Mr. Kelman says he expects to hire 35 to 50 more agents in the next year.
 Even some people who were making a good living as real estate agents are adjusting their careers. Edie Narrido got her license in 2002 in San Francisco, and after two unsteady years, she started to do well. ''I was peaking,'' she said, ''but I noticed the market was slipping.''
 In 2005, in search of more stable work, Ms. Narrido went to work for a sales and marketing company that helps developers sell newly built residential units. She still works for a commission, but the income is much steadier. And as she watches the San Francisco market slow down, she said, she has no regrets.
 ''In the resale industry, you have no idea where your next sale is going to be,'' said Ms. Narrido. ''It's like trying to look into a crystal ball.''
 It was intuition that prompted Sonia Montana, 48, to abandon real estate three years ago and take a job selling life insurance in South Florida. For some reason she cannot pinpoint, she said, she decided it was a good time to get out.
 ''When I moved to insurance, everyone said: 'Are you crazy? You're doing so well,' '' recalled Ms. Montana, who works for New York Life in Weston, Fla., 20 miles west of Fort Lauderdale. Now those people, many of them former colleagues, are looking for ways to get out.
 ''I'm amazed that I was right,'' she said.
 In areas still bracing for a more significant downturn, an exodus is anticipated.
 ''I think we're going to see a lot of that in the upcoming year,'' said Kathleen McDonough, who has been an agent for nearly 14 years in Montclair, N.J., one of the last areas in that state to be affected by the real estate slowdown. ''But I can see there's trouble ahead,'' she said. ''I think among the less experienced agents, or agents who might consider retirement, I can see a lot of attrition.''
 The thinning of the ranks is welcomed by those who plan to stick it out.
 ''It's great for people like me,'' said Tamara Krause, an agent in Boston who said she has no intention of giving up. ''Because a lot of those people who just got in are now getting out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Randy Haddadin, who moved to Florida in 2003 and became a real estate agent, is thinking of leaving the field. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1)
 Brad Milovich of San Diego left real estate to work in health care. As thousands of people became agents in the last few years, it has been difficult for new ones to establish themselves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) CHART: ''The Boom in Real Estate (Agents)'' As the real estate market heated up in the early 2000s, more and more people sought sales licenses, hoping to cash in on the boom. In California, once one of the hottest areas, fewer people are taking the exam and the number of sales agents has leveled off. (Source: California Department of Real Estate) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMISSION PAY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); SALES COMPENSATION (77%); SALES FORCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LOBBYING (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (70%); ONLINE TRADING (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



137 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: The New Social Contract

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
In 1942, Franklin Roosevelt imposed wage controls on American companies. Unable to lure workers with higher salaries, many employers began offering health insurance and other benefits. Then, in 1952, officials at the Internal Revenue Service ruled that these benefits wouldn't count as taxable income. 
 And so, accidentally, the modern American health and pension system was born. 
 The system, in which families received social protections through their employers, worked well for decades. But now it's coming apart at the seams. The proportion of people insured is falling. Rising health care costs burden employers. Workers can't chase opportunities because they can't bring their health insurance packages with them.
 As Jason Bordoff points out in the current issue of Democracy, the old employer-based social contract is eroding and the central domestic policy debate of our time is over how to replace it. 
 Some liberals, believing that government should step in as employers withdraw, support a European-style, single-payer health care system. That would be fine if we were Europeans. But Americans, who are more individualistic and pluralistic, will not likely embrace a system that forces them to defer to the central government when it comes to making fundamental health care choices.
 And so some distinctly American social contract is going to be required. Beneath all the fluff of the campaign season, that's what the domestic side of the presidential race is about. In early, halting and half-formed ways, several candidates are offering broad visions of a new social contract and plans married to those visions. 
 Few have thought about these matters as long or as well as Stuart Butler of the Heritage Foundation. Butler grew up in Shrewsbury, England, got a doctorate in American economic history in Scotland and became a U.S. citizen in 1996. As a result, he's acutely aware of what makes American civilization unique, and which policies fit the national character. 
 As you read his work, you quickly see what priorities the new social contract should embrace. It should offer basic security, so Americans will feel comfortable enough to move around and seize new opportunities. It should demand reciprocity; if you contribute to society, you're protected from catastrophes no one can control. It should foster personal responsibility, stimulating private savings and self-insurance among those who can afford it. 
 Finally, it should foster self-sufficiency; if people do slip and require government support, they should be induced to rebound and take care of themselves. If you are fortunate enough to be upper-middle class, you shouldn't be rigging the game so you grab benefits that should properly be allocated to the needy.
 Butler is no libertarian. He doesn't believe individuals should just be given Health Savings Accounts and then sent off to shop for health care. Nor does he believe that the primary social relationship is between individuals and government. 
 He sees America as a thick society, and believes that unions, churches and community groups should be involved in health care and social support. He sees America as a decentralized society. The worst thing we could do is get the smartest people in a room and build one system from Washington. Instead, Washington should set parameters and states should be left free to innovate and compete.
 He also sees society as a continuum between the dead, living and unborn. We shouldn't disrupt the lives of those who are happy with the insurance they have. On the other hand, it's immoral to shift the costs to our children and grandchildren. Long-term expenses should be calculated into every decision we make.
 Butler's specific health care plan is well-summarized at the Web site of the Hamilton Project. First, he would create tax-exempt ''insurance exchanges.'' These would be sponsored by trusted agents -- unions, churches and other social groups. Organized like the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, they would offer menus of coverage choices and create diverse risk pools. 
 Second, employers who did not offer their own coverage would oversee payroll deductions and tax withholdings, but they would no longer have to sponsor programs or make choices for employees. Third, Congress would offer a health care tax credit to families making up to 200 percent of the poverty level, and would tighten benefits for the affluent. Fourth, states could come up with their own ways to regulate this system.
 This isn't the laissez-faire social contract of the 19th century. But neither is it the centralized, big bureaucracy contract of the 20th century. It's a contract that envisions society as a dense but flexible web of social networks, the perfect vision for 21st-century America. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); SELF INSURANCE (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); CITIZENSHIP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ENGLAND (79%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



138 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BORDER CROSSINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Abroad Underwriting 'Model' State

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: TRIVANDRUM, India 

 BODY:
This verdant swath of southern Indian coastline is a famously good place to be poor. People in the state of Kerala live nearly as long as Americans do, on a sliver of the income. They read at nearly the same rates. 
 With leftist governments here in the state capital spending heavily on health and schools, a generation of scholars has celebrated the ''Kerala model'' as a humane alternative to market-driven development, a vision of social equality in an unequal capitalist world. But the Kerala model is under attack, one outbound worker at a time. 
 Plagued by chronic unemployment, more Keralites than ever work abroad, often at sun-scorched jobs in the Persian Gulf that pay about $1 an hour and keep them from their families for years. The cash flowing home now helps support nearly one Kerala resident in three. That has some local scholars rewriting the Kerala story: far from escaping capitalism, they say, this celebrated corner of the developing world is painfully dependent on it. 
 ''Remittances from global capitalism are carrying the whole Kerala economy,'' said S. Irudaya Rajan, a demographer at the Center for Development Studies, a local research group. ''There would have been starvation deaths in Kerala if there had been no migration. The Kerala model is good to read about but not practically applicable to any part of the world, including Kerala.''
 Local lessons would matter less if this were a section of Mexico or Manila -- places known for the hardships that make migrants flee. But Kerala's standing as the other way -- the benevolent path to development, a retort to globalization -- makes the travails of its 1.8 million globalizing migrants especially resonant. The debate about Kerala is a debate about future strategies across the impoverished world.
 Laly Mohan's life offers the kind of case study common here. Having risen from a poor family to finish two years of college, her husband, Ramakrishnan, 39, saw few job prospects and left for the gulf 15 years ago. As a driver in Qatar, he now earns $375 a month, about five times the local wage, and sees his family once a year, on a three-week visit.
 Mr. Mohan's earnings have brought the family the accouterments of middle-class life: a renovated kitchen, a new motorscooter and a parochial school education for two daughters, Blessy, 10, and Elsa, 6. But despite her husband's daily calls, Ms. Mohan said, ''I feel very alone,'' and the girls plead for their father's return. ''They want Papa and they also want money,'' she said. ''They cannot have both.''
 ''So many educated people are here, but we have no jobs,'' Ms. Mohan added. ''That is a big problem, a really big problem.''
 To its admirers, the state's struggles are those endemic to the developing world, while its achievements are unique. It is poor, even by India's standards, with an annual per capita income of $675, compared with $730 nationwide. (The figure in the United States is about $25,000.) 
 But Kerala's life expectancy is nearly 74 years -- 11 years longer than the Indian average and approaching the American average of 77 years. Its literacy rate, 91 percent, compares to an Indian average of 65 percent, and an American rate the United Nations estimates at 99 percent.
 Those enviable outcomes, its supporters stress, are a result of policy choices: Kerala spends 36 percent more on education than the average Indian state and 46 percent more on health. 
 ''The fact that quality of life can be improved through government intervention, even in societies that are very poor -- I think that's important,'' said Prabhat Patnaik, the vice chairman of the state planning board. Kerala's experience, he said, shows ''the quality of life is not just related to the growth rate'' of the economy.
 ''Put it in the context of any other part of the developing world and its achievements still stand out as remarkable,'' said Richard Franke, an anthropologist at Montclair State University in New Jersey. ''Children don't die in the first year of life, boys and girls have approximately equal life chances, they get educated, and they live long lives.''
 He added, ''The Kerala model stands as a great achievement, with or without migration.''
 Kerala's culture of human investment is at least two centuries years old and owes early debts to the missionaries and maharajahs who emphasized schools. By the early 20th century, literate Keralites were already migrating internally, to work as clerks in Delhi and Bombay, and sending money home.
 Kerala was equally well known as a font of leftist politics. The Communist Party came to power in 1957, a year after statehood, and has ruled on and off since. The state transferred land from the rich to the poor, set a minimum wage and invested heavily in clinics and schools.
 Though Kerala's tax rates have been comparable to other Indian states', its collection rates have been higher, and it has spent more on education and health.
 It also gained a reputation as a place hostile to business, with heavy regulation, militant unions and frequent strikes. There are fishing jobs but little industry and weak agriculture. Government is the largest employer; many people run tenuous businesses like tea shops or tiny stores.
 Talk of the Kerala model began after a 1975 United Nations report praised the state's ''impressive advances in the spheres of health and education.'' Starved for success stories from the developing world, experts noticed.
 Amartya Sen, a future Nobel laureate in economics, wrote widely on Kerala, arguing (in a book with Jean Dreze) that its ''outstanding social achievements'' were of ''far-reaching significance'' in other countries. In a book on three places that inspire global hope, Bill McKibben, an American, wrote that ''Kerala demonstrates that a low-level economy can create a decent life'' and shows that ''sharing works.'' 
 Yet even as Kerala gained fame, large numbers of its workers were leaving. The Persian Gulf needed labor, and Keralites were used to traveling for jobs. The number of overseas workers doubled in the 1980s, and then tripled in the 1990s. In a state of 32 million where unemployment approaches 20 percent, one Keralite worker in six now works overseas. The largest number work at taxing construction jobs, outdoors in the Arabian sun, though high literacy allows some Keralites to land office work.
 Without migrant earnings, critics say, the state's luster could not be sustained. The $5 billion that Keralite migrants send home augment the state's economic output by nearly 25 percent. Migrants' families are three times as likely as those of nonmigrants to live in superior housing, and about twice as likely to have telephones, refrigerators and cars. Men seeking wives place newspaper ads, describing themselves as ''handsome, teetotaler, foreign-employed'' or ''God-fearing and working in Dubai.'' 
 ''The gulf is the biggest factor in sustaining a higher quality of life,'' said B. A. Prakesh, an economist at the University of Kerala.
 At its best, migration produces stories like that of Benjamin Fernandez, 55, who moved to the United Arab Emirates 30 years ago as a secretary and now owns a construction firm there. He built a big house in India with a teak spiral staircase and educated his daughters in private schools. One is studying to be a doctor, and the other is applying to business school. ''The U.A.E. built a life for us,'' he said. 
 Yet the suicide rate in Kerala is four times the national average, and there are also families like that of Shirley Justus, 45, who struggled to raise three daughters by herself while her husband drove trucks in Muscat and Dubai. Her oldest, Suji, graduated from high school last year and made two study plans, one aimed at England and the other at Mumbai, formerly known as Bombay. Ms. Justus, afraid to be responsible for letting her go, vetoed both ideas. Her daughter obeyed with little complaint and then hanged herself. 
 ''If my husband was here, she wouldn't have done this,'' said Ms. Justus, who has made her living room a shrine to her daughter and her life a search for answers. ''He would have solved the problem.''
 With nearly a quarter of the money migrants send home being spent on education, some Keralites experience a painful cycle: migration buys education, which leads to more migration. Educated Keralites, more choosy about jobs, are more likely to be unemployed. 
 In the family of James John Pereira, literacy and migration have been intertwined for nearly 100 years, since his father left to work as a valet on a Sri Lankan plantation. His earnings put Mr. Pereira through private school, and Mr. Pereira's 49 years abroad as a clerk did the same for his five children, all of whom earned master's degrees. 
 But three are now working abroad themselves, as is the husband of a fourth, Jacqueline, who is raising a 10-year-old daughter by herself. ''The literacy rate here is great,'' she said, ''and unemployment is much greater.''
 Kerala's homegrown critics say such stories underscore the problems of a strategy that severs human development and economic growth. ''Keralites are developing the gulf economy,'' Professor Rajan, the demographer, said. ''They are not developing our economy.''
 Professor Franke, the Kerala admirer, said the economic forces that lead people to migrate were beyond the state's control. ''But what's unique about Kerala is that the benefits are likely to be shared in a more fair and just way,'' he said. 
 ''I wouldn't say it discredits the model,'' Mr. Franke said of Kerala's migration. ''It shows that it has weaknesses.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James John Pereira with his wife, Hilda, right, daughter Jacqueline, left, and a granddaughter, Reshma. Three of Mr. Pereira's children and Jacqueline's husband work abroad
Varkala, a coastal community in Kerala State, boasts a heavy migrant community. Keralite migrants send $5 billion home a year
 Shirley Justus, right, with her daughters. Her living room is a shrine to her oldest, who killed herself. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) MAP: Lawmakers in Trivandrum made education a priority. Map showing the southern Indian coastline. (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (89%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); STARVATION (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); CASE STUDIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH INDIA (94%); KERALA, INDIA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); QATAR (71%); GULF STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



139 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Rises, Easing Inflation Worries

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
Worker productivity rebounded in the April-June quarter, growing at the fastest pace in nearly two years, while wage pressures eased, the Labor Department reported Thursday.
 Both developments are likely to reduce inflation worries. 
 Productivity, the amount of output per hour of work, increased to an annual growth rate of 2.6 percent in the April-June quarter, the department said, better than the 1.8 percent increase originally reported in estimates.
 Wage pressures, as measured by unit labor costs, slowed to an annual growth rate of 1.4 percent; the rate of increase had been initially estimated at 2.1 percent.
 Rising wages are good for workers, but if those gains are not accompanied by increased productivity, they can lead to inflation. If productivity is growing, businesses can pay their workers more out of the increased output rather than by raising prices.
 In other economic news, the number of newly laid off workers filing claims for unemployment benefits fell last week for the first time in seven weeks.
 The Labor Department reported that jobless claims dropped to 318,000, down 19,000 from the previous week. A string of increases in jobless claims had raised concerns that the severe slump in housing was beginning to take its toll on the labor market.
 In another hopeful sign, the nation's retailers reported that consumers returned to the malls in August. A late back-to-school shopping spree helped retailers rebound from lackluster sales in July. 
 A third report showed that the service economy, in which most Americans work, expanded at the same pace in August as in July. The Institute for Supply Management said its index of service industries registered 55.8 in August, the same as in July. That was better than the 54 reading that economists had expected.
 The government will release August jobless figures on Friday. The expectation is that the unemployment rate will hold steady at 4.6 percent with a modest 108,000 new jobs created, up slightly from the 92,000 jobs created in July.
 The revisions to productivity and labor costs had been expected, given an upward revision announced last week to overall economic growth in the second quarter. The government said the economy was growing at an annual rate of 4 percent in the April-June period, the best showing in more than a year and up from an initial estimate of 3.4 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''U.S. Productivity'' Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 1992 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); PRODUCTIVITY (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



140 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Newark Arena Hangs a 'Help Wanted' Sign, and Thousands Line Up

BYLINE: By WINTER MILLER

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
By 9 a.m., the line of hopeful and expectant faces extended several blocks, took a 90-degree turn, then extended for several more. Many who were waiting had turned out in skirts, suits and ties, many others in baggy jeans, construction boots and oversize T-shirts. 
 Each had come downtown, in a city with an unemployment rate almost twice the statewide average, in hopes of securing one of 1,200 jobs at the Prudential Center Arena, the new home of the New Jersey Devils hockey team, which cost more than $300 million and is scheduled to open here next month. 
 Such is the state of joblessness in Newark that on Thursday, the first day of interviews, nearly three times as many people showed up as there were jobs available. Organizers were expecting 5,000 additional job seekers on Friday.
 ''When I saw the line, I was like, 'Oh, my gosh, all those people waiting to get in,' '' said Nikki Singletary, 35, a mother of three. Ms. Singletary said she works full time as a security guard, but after reaching her limit on 16 credit cards -- she was just approved for two more -- she had accumulated more than $5,000 in debt, and so wants a second job. 
 ''I would work 80 hours,'' she said. ''I need the money; I got bills to pay.'' 
 Newark's unemployment rate is 8.5 percent, according to city officials, nearly double the state's rate of 4.6 percent. Robert Curvin, an expert in economic development, said that a distinct set of circumstances in Newark contributed to its high unemployment rate.
 ''There is a classical skills mismatch for many of the jobs,'' said Dr. Curvin, who has taught economic development at Rutgers University. ''If you look at the job listings in the local newspaper, you will see there are listings for many jobs, and many residents of Newark do not have those technical skills or the experience to qualify for them.''
 The Prudential Center, which is to open on Oct. 25, is the linchpin of the city's hopes for a revitalized downtown. The jobs to be filled there -- ushers, janitors, bartenders, cooks and others -- are mostly part time, pay as much as $17 an hour and do not include benefits.
 ''I'm sorry about the huge turnout, but this is a good thing for Newark,'' Mayor Cory A. Booker said as he stopped by the New Jersey Institute of Technology, where the interviews are being held, to encourage the crowd. 
 ''This is a tough job world,'' Mr. Booker said, advising those in line. ''When you walk in, try to look good. Take off hats, button up, pull up your pants if they're baggy, have a good attitude. They're looking for the cream of the crop, and I know the cream of the crop is in Newark.''
 Celena-Christine Moore was one of many in the line who were wondering how a criminal record might affect an application.
 ''If you have limited work history or a criminal background, the opportunities are not there,'' said Ms. Moore, 24, who said she was sentenced to probation for offenses including credit card fraud and weapons violations. ''You've paid your debt to society, and you still can't get employment.''
 Ms. Moore said she had been looking for work for six months, and had so far found only low-paying jobs in fast-food outlets. She dismissed these, saying, ''It would cost more to get to work than to work.''
 She said she had an empty bank account, credit cards at their limit and $10.10 in her wallet. When her cellphone rang, showing an 800 number, she did not answer because, she said, she presumed it was a creditor calling.
 ''I can't be picky, especially with my background,'' Ms. Moore said. ''I'll take anything. I'll start at the bottom with the opportunity to work my way up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (76%); ICE HOCKEY (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



141 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2626 words

HEADLINE: Art

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'INFINITE ISLAND: CONTEMPORARY CARIBBEAN ART,' through Jan. 27. This large show, with 45 artists and a collective of designers, photographers and architects from the Dominican Republic adding to the count, fills two floors of temporary exhibition space, and care has been given to the selection. Several of the most substantial pieces were commissioned for the occasion. Organized by Tumelo Moshaka, associate curator of exhibitions at Brooklyn, it's an in-house job, a labor of love, though an uneven one. Too much work treads ground already covered by other art over the years. But what's good is really good, and the very existence of a show about identity politics, out of mainstream fashion in 2007, is cause for serious reflection. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. 
 (Holland Cotter) 
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'RICHARD POUSETTE-DART,' through Sept. 25. The youngest member of the first generation of Abstract Expressionists, Pousette-Dart (1916-1992) helped break the ice for the movement, only to be omitted from its histories. This show, while too small to make sense of his enormous output, confirms his originality, but also that he did his best work after 1960, when he extended his Ab-Ex origins into an eccentric hybrid of Minimal and Op Art that is alternately hallucinatory and kitschy. His late paintings don't so much hang on the wall as float in front of it, looking like either planes of granular light or slabs of jeweled stucco. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. 
 (Roberta Smith)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'EXCELLENCE AND ELEGANCE: DECORATIVE ARTS OF THE EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY QING COURT,' through Nov. 25. The consummate ambition that Chinese artists brought to diminutive scale is a striking feature of this small show of art from the Qing dynasty, China's last imperial line. The Qing were both conservatively antiquarian and expansively cosmopolitan, and those trends can be seen in the European-inflected versions of ancient Chinese forms in this show. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'FRANK STELLA ON THE ROOF,' through Oct. 28. Two large Pop Art sculptures, two architectural models and a model enlarged into a sculpture-installation piece confirm that one of the greatest American artists of the postwar era doesn't do himself or anyone else any favors when he strays from the wall to work fully in the round. The results have a certain Stella-like verve but are otherwise generic. (See above.) (Smith)EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'EL MUSEO'S BIENAL: THE (S) FILES,' through Jan. 6. You feel the growing pains and attempts to stretch out in the fifth edition of ''The (S) Files'' (short for ''The Selected Files).'' The show provides a survey of 51 emerging artists based in New York and from this year's invited guest country, Ecuador. Some of the works distinctly consider location, displacement and identity. Others are less concerned with issues that make for good biennial panel discussions and more interested in mining older art -- Surrealism, Minimalism and Postminimalism -- and employing craft techniques. Many of the artists in ''The (S) Files'' have appeared in other local survey shows, which raises the criticism often leveled at biennials: that in trying to cover the waterfront of contemporary art, they end up making the waterfront look, from every angle, increasingly the same. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Martha Schwendener)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'THE ABSTRACT IMPULSE: FIFTY YEARS OF ABSTRACTION AT THE NATIONAL ACADEMY, 1956-2006,' through Jan. 6. This exhibition illuminates the troubled history of abstraction at the academy over the last half-century, with a selection of 47 paintings, sculptures and works on paper by its members, many only recently elected, who took part in movements like Abstract Expressionism, Minimalism and Kinetic and Op Art. Drawn almost entirely from the museum's collection, it may not be an outstanding group of artworks, but it helps to explain how this once-celebrated museum and school lost much of its prestige. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. 
 (Benjamin Genocchio)
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'IL LEE: BALLPOINT DRAWINGS,' through Sept. 30. A selection of drawings -- striking indigo and black ink abstractions, all done exclusively in ballpoint pen, on paper and canvas -- makes up this engrossing show by the veteran Korean artist Il Lee. The centerpiece is a 50-foot drawing that took two and a half months and 400 to 500 ballpoint pens to complete, with the artist working on sections at a time that were propped up against the wall in his Brooklyn studio. It is a sweeping, rhythmical abstraction in blue recalling the Italian Futurist paintings of Giacomo Balla, combined with elements of traditional Asian ink and wash painting. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. 
 (Genocchio)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'RUDOLF STINGEL,' through Oct. 14. The work of this Italian-born artist, who is based in New York, seduces the eye while also upending most notions of what, exactly, constitutes a painting, how it should be made and by whom. His favored materials include carpet and Styrofoam, as well as paint on canvas. His style swings between abstract purity and Photo Realism. As enthralling as it is perturbing, his work combines beauty, humor and a democratic slant with a rigorous sense of economy. It also forms one of the best-looking exhibitions seen lately at the Whitney. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'AMERICANS IN PARIS: ABSTRACT PAINTING IN THE FIFTIES' This show comes loaded with associations: Gertrude Stein and Hemingway, Gershwin's tone poem. (The Met also mounted a show of paintings last year titled ''Americans in Paris: 1860-1900.'') Paintings here echo what was popular in New York in the 1950s. Although the canvases aren't as large, the gestures are big, and bold colors, splatters and drips abound in works by Al Held, Norman Bluhm, Seymour Boardman, Shirley Jaffe, Joan Mitchell and Sam Francis. One artist who ran against the Abstract Expressionist tide is Ellsworth Kelly, whose horizontal collage with hard-edged stripes makes him seem less like an American in Paris than a painter forecasting Daniel Buren -- or what the French would do in the 1960s. Tibor de Nagy, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 262-5050, tibordenagy.com, through Sept. 29. (Schwendener)
 'KOREAN FUNERARY FIGURES: COMPANIONS FOR THE JOURNEY TO THE OTHER WORLD' What makes this somewhat unusual for a show of mortuary art is that the kkoktu, or figures adorning funeral biers, were created for ordinary citizens rather than for aristocrats or the wealthy. They're also rather fun and friendly. Brightly painted clowns, acrobats and animals were meant to accompany the dead into the next world, to ease the journey and provide consolation for the mourners. Among the 74 kkoktu are versions of ''The Guide,'' riding an animal; ''The Guard,'' who protects the soul from evil spirits; ''The Caregiver'' (generally women); and ''The Entertainer,'' as well as a replica of a funeral bier modeled on a late-18th-century original from Tongyoung, South Kyongsang Province. The Korea Society, 950 Third Avenue, (212) 759-7525, koreasociety.org, through Nov. 20. (Schwendener)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'THE LATH PICTURE SHOW' The title signals that a certain predominance of wood -- raw, finished, real, fake -- among the efforts of 20 contemporary artists. It is deployed in assorted forms to cheerfully crowded nearly carnivalesque effect. There is leaning, stacking, signage, old-fashioned carpentry, as well as photography and installation. Unless you count Robert Melee's colorful, wall-size variation on rec room decor (and parquet flooring), painting is absent. In other words, playing on Peter Bogdanovich's 1971 movie, this is the show beyond ''The Last Picture Show.'' Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9467, petzel.com, through Sept. 22. (Smith)
 Galleries: Other
 MARTIN CREED: 'FEELINGS' Operating somewhere between a sardonic court jester and an art-world Martha Stewart (try this at home), the British Conceptualist Martin Creed pokes fun at the avant-garde while extending its traditions. Occupying 24 spacious galleries, this show includes marker-pen monochromes; sculptures consisting of stacks of beanbag chairs and sheets of plywood; a person who runs through the galleries every 10 minutes; videos of people engaged in basic bodily functions; and a gallery full of dark blue balloons that is the next best thing to an antigravitational chamber. Immense and provocative fun, the work also strikes deep at the heart of art and its role in the world. Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7598, through Sept. 16. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE GREAT COVER-UP: AMERICAN RUGS ON BEDS, TABLES AND FLOORS' The more than 60 rugs in this extraordinary show count among the best pictorial art of 19th- and early-20th-century America, which means that quite a few of the women who made them qualify as great, if unidentified, artists. Densely textured, gloriously colored, boldly scaled and exuberantly frontal, they were made between 1800 and 1950 and provide something of a history of the American handmade rug, from bed to floor, and from mostly yarn-sewn to the wildly popular hooking technique. Their intuitive intelligence, where space and composition are concerned, proves once more that modern form is not a modern invention 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 NINA BERMAN: 'PURPLE HEARTS' One of the more shocking photographs to come out of the current war in Iraq was taken last year in a rural town in the American Midwest. It's a studio portrait by Nina Berman of a young Illinois couple on their wedding day. The bride is dressed in a traditional white gown; the groom, a former Marine sergeant, is in full dress. Her expression is unsmiling, maybe grave. His face is all but featureless, with no nose and no chin, as blank as a pullover mask, the results of disfiguring wounds sustained in combat. The show also includes 10 portraits of wounded veterans from Ms. Berman's series ''Purple Hearts.'' Whatever your politics, the show, installed in a small storefront gallery, adds up to a desolating antiwar statement. Jen Bekman Gallery, 6 Spring Street, between the Bowery and Elizabeth Street, Lower East Side; (212) 219-0166, jenbekman.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter) 
 'DOUBLE X-RATED: WHERE THE GIRLS ARE' The ''Double X'' in the title of this all-woman group show, organized by Amelia Abdullahsani, refers to female chromosomes, which clearly do not determine any one art style. Despite a shared realism, goth-subculture portraits by the Stockholm-based Ulrika Minami Warmling are very different from Noel Grunwaldt's beautiful watercolors of dead birds. Katrin Sigurdardottir hides landscapes in boxes; Francesca Gabbiani conjures them up in collages; Joy Garnett continues her project of painting the contemporary political landscape, in this case in images derived from news reports of burning Paris immigrant neighborhoods. Stellan Holm Gallery, 524 West 24th Street, (212) 627-7444, stellanholm.com; closes tomorrow. (Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'BIOGRAPHICAL LANDSCAPE: THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF STEPHEN SHORE, 1969-1979' In 1971 the Metropolitan Museum of Art gave Stephen Shore its second-ever exhibition by a living photographer. (Alfred Stieglitz had the first.) He was 23 when it opened. What he did comprises most of this wonderful show. Mr. Shore has reprinted the photographs digitally, with rejuvenated colors as fresh and subtle as the day the pictures were shot. The work's wit and affection add buoyancy to scenes of America from a moment when the country was depressed by war and years of civil unrest. Its formal rigor makes an uncanny order out of images that, at first glance, look like no place or nothing. Look again. His show reminds us of a period when cutting-edge American art and the tradition of straight, documentary photography got together. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at West 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org; closes on Sunday. (Michael Kimmelman) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'LET YOUR MOTTO BE RESISTANCE: AFRICAN-AMERICAN PORTRAITS' This show of photographic portraits is a praise-song in pictures, a shout-out to history. It's also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African-American History and Culture in Washington. It tends to be a little too fancy, a little too short on grit. Still, what a party it is, with a Who's Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X, and with Leontyne Price, Mahalia Jackson and the Supremes sharing a stage. (See above.) Closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 SOL LEWITT: 'DRAWING SERIES ...' If the greatness of Sol LeWitt, the Minimal-Conceptual artist who died in April at 78, has so far escaped you, this exhilarating show of 14 of his mind-teasing, eye-filling wall drawings from the late 1960s and early '70s may do the trick. Selected and arranged by the artist, they proceed in carefully sequenced contrasts and echoes that are both insightful and idiosyncratic. Since their generating instructions are part of their titles, they reduce the creative process to a short, highly visible straight line. But their crisp geometries, accumulating marks and radiating patterns force us to mind the gap between artistic thought and artistic action, to experience the inability of language to account fully for visual outcome. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, diabeacon.org; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN DIASPORAN ARTS: 'THE FRENCH EVOLUTION: RACE, POLITICS & THE 2005 RIOTS' Alexis Peskine serves as an informed guide to recent events in France, although his position is somewhat complicated. Son of a Franco-Russian father (an architect) and an Afro-Brazilian mother, Mr. Peskine holds a bachelor of fine arts degree from Howard University and a master's from the Maryland Institute College of Art, which set him distinctly apart from the working-class youth in the banlieue, or suburb. His training as a graphic artist is evident in paintings that appropriate elements from comics, cartoons and food products, while his interest in hip-hop culminates in a music video titled ''Ripa'' (slang for Paris). Uneven at times, Mr. Peskine's work is ambitious and reflective. It also succeeds in showing us how in France's difficulties we feel echoes of our own. 80 Hanson Place, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0492, mocada.org; closes on Sunday. (Schwendener)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RICHARD SERRA SCULPTURE: 40 YEARS' This retrospective is a landmark by a titan of sculpture. At 67, Mr. Serra is still nudging the language of abstraction, constructing ever more awesome mazes of looming Cor-Ten steel. His ''Torqued Ellipses'' and ''Torqued Toruses'' and other recent works like ''Band'' and ''Sequence'' have their origins in pieces he did 40 years ago in rubber and lead, as this retrospective handsomely affirms, but these are nonetheless unprecedented variations on the theme of dumbfounding spirals and loops. These shapes and experiences are new. That's about the best, and the rarest, compliment you can give to any artist. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Kimmelman)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ART: A portrait of the playwright Lorraine Hansberry, about 1960, above, is at the International Center of Photography in ''Let Your Motto Be Resistance,'' closing on Sunday. Page 24. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY)(pg. E21)
 'KOHEI YOSHIYUKI: THE PARK' It is hard to characterize this unusual exhibition of black-and-white photographs from the 1970s by the Japanese photographer Kohei Yoshiyuki. Basically they are snapshots, taken in Tokyo parks at night using a 35- millimeter camera, infrared film and flash to document the people gathered for amorous trysts, as well as -- and this is the bizarre part -- the hordes of spectators hiding in the bushes who watched, and sometimes even participated in, the action. The three dozen images at Yossi Milo Gallery in Chelsea show more or less equal numbers of heterosexual and homosexual couplings, but they are not simply about sex or even the social strictures of Japanese society at a time when loving couples were forced into the park. They are about the guilty, if electric, pleasure of voyeurism, which drew people to these lonely locales all those years ago and draws us to Mr. Yoshiyuki's photographs, which by and large are not terribly well composed or printed. Several pictures are slightly out of focus, and at times movement blurs the figures. But somehow it all adds to the allure, giving them a grainy realism. We delight in the naughty, clandestine quality of the imagery, viewed in safety from another time and place. But the experience is no less engrossing. (Through Oct. 20, Yossi Milo Gallery, 525 West 25th Street, 212-414-0370, www.yossimilo.com.) BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOHEI YOSHIYUKI/YOSSI MILO GALLERY)(pg. E21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); VISUAL ARTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); PAINTING (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%)

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%); NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (68%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); JAPAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



142 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 4257 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 'KOHEI YOSHIYUKI: THE PARK' It is hard to characterize this unusual exhibition of black-and-white photographs from the 1970s by the Japanese photographer Kohei Yoshiyuki. Basically they are snapshots, taken in Tokyo parks at night using a 35-millimeter camera, infrared film and flash to document the people gathered for amorous trysts, as well as -- and this is the bizarre part -- the hordes of spectators hiding in the bushes who watched, and sometimes even participated in, the action. 
 The three dozen images at Yossi Milo Gallery in Chelsea show more or less equal numbers of heterosexual and homosexual couplings, but they are not simply about sex or even the social strictures of Japanese society at a time when loving couples were forced into the park. They are about the guilty, if electric, pleasure of voyeurism, which drew people to these lonely locales all those years ago and draws us to Mr. Yoshiyuki's photographs, which by and large are not terribly well composed or printed. Several pictures are slightly out of focus, and at times movement blurs the figures. But somehow it all adds to the allure, giving them a grainy realism. We delight in the naughty, clandestine quality of the imagery, viewed in safety from another time and place. But the experience is no less engrossing. (Through Oct. 20, Yossi Milo Gallery, 525 West 25th Street, 212-414-0370, www.yossimilo.com.) BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO 
 Museums
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'INFINITE ISLAND: CONTEMPORARY CARIBBEAN ART,' through Jan. 27. This large show, with 45 artists and a collective of designers, photographers and architects from the Dominican Republic adding to the count, fills two floors of temporary exhibition space, and care has been given to the selection. Several of the most substantial pieces were commissioned for the occasion. Organized by Tumelo Moshaka, associate curator of exhibitions at Brooklyn, it's an in-house job, a labor of love, though an uneven one. Too much work treads ground already covered by other art over the years. But what's good is really good, and the very existence of a show about identity politics, out of mainstream fashion in 2007, is cause for serious reflection. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. 
 (Holland Cotter)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'RICHARD POUSETTE-DART,' through Sept. 25. The youngest member of the first generation of Abstract Expressionists, Pousette-Dart (1916-1992) helped break the ice for the movement, only to be omitted from its histories. This show, while too small to make sense of his enormous output, confirms his originality, but also that he did his best work after 1960, when he extended his Ab-Ex origins into an eccentric hybrid of Minimal and Op Art that is alternately hallucinatory and kitschy. His late paintings don't so much hang on the wall as float in front of it, looking like either planes of granular light or slabs of jeweled stucco. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. 
 (Roberta Smith)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'EXCELLENCE AND ELEGANCE: DECORATIVE ARTS OF THE EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY QING COURT,' through Nov. 25. The consummate ambition that Chinese artists brought to diminutive scale is a striking feature of this small show of art from the Qing dynasty, China's last imperial line. The Qing were both conservatively antiquarian and expansively cosmopolitan, and those trends can be seen in the European-inflected versions of ancient Chinese forms in this show. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 * THE MET: 'INCISIVE IMAGES: IVORY AND BOXWOOD CARVINGS,' through Nov. 25. This extraordinary show, drawn almost entirely from the Met's vaults, presents an array of nearly 100 carved figures, crucifixes, reliefs, containers, hand-held weapons and the occasional piece of furniture. It is an engrossing hive of religious fervor, Classical erudition (and occasional naughtiness), style shifts and multicultural crosscurrents. And among the many feats of drop-dead artistic skill are several of traffic-stopping caliber. Don't miss it. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'NEO RAUCH AT THE MET: PARA,' through Oct. 14. The figurative style of the leader of the Leipzig School is never less than ambitious, but here it looks almost fatally retro, as if the context of the Met had made the painter's mind turn to thoughts of browned-out colors; characters of a Romantic 19th- century mien; and settings that often suggest garrets or hunting lodges. The result is an exhibition that looks too much at home in the museum and sells Mr. Rauch's talent short, but is still one that should be seen. (See above.) (Smith)
 * THE MET: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Dec. 2. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen who not only conceive and design their own objects but have a direct hand in making them, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer; John Cederquist's elegant cabinet concealed behind a trompe l'oeil door painted and veneered to look like a battered wooden packing case with a rowdy wave tearing through it; and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. Traditionalists, too, have their place in this show, with the wood workers Wharton Esherick and Sam Maloof represented by elegantly simple renditions in the furniture line; respectively, a music stand and a Shaker-like settee. (See above.) (Grace Glueck) 
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'EL MUSEO'S BIENAL: THE (S) FILES,' through Jan. 6. You feel the growing pains and attempts to stretch out in the fifth edition of ''The (S) Files'' (short for ''The Selected Files).'' The show provides a survey of 51 emerging artists based in New York and from this year's invited guest country, Ecuador. Some of the works distinctly consider location, displacement and identity. Others are less concerned with issues that make for good biennial panel discussions and more interested in mining older art -- Surrealism, Minimalism and Postminimalism -- and employing craft techniques. Many of the artists in ''The (S) Files'' have appeared in other local survey shows, which raises the criticism often leveled at biennials: that in trying to cover the waterfront of contemporary art, they end up making the waterfront look, from every angle, increasingly the same. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Martha Schwendener)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'NEW YORK RISES: PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE DE SALIGNAC,' through Oct. 28. This exhibition makes a case for adding Eugene de Salignac, the official photographer for the New York City Department of Bridges, Plant and Structures from 1903 to 1934, to the canon of American photographers whose images are forever linked with the city. He captured the Williamsburg, Manhattan and Queensboro Bridges just as construction was completed and the subways tracks were being laid. In some of his moving, eye-catching images, he exhibits his appreciation for New York's work force. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1673, mcny.org. (Bridget L. Goodbody)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'THE ABSTRACT IMPULSE: FIFTY YEARS OF ABSTRACTION AT THE NATIONAL ACADEMY, 1956-2006,' through Jan. 6. This exhibition illuminates the troubled history of abstraction at the academy over the last half-century, with a selection of 47 paintings, sculptures and works on paper by its members, many only recently elected, who took part in movements like Abstract Expressionism, Minimalism and Kinetic and Op Art. Drawn almost entirely from the museum's collection, it may not be an outstanding group of artworks, but it helps to explain how this once-celebrated museum and school lost much of its prestige. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Benjamin Genocchio)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'THE DONNER PARTY,' through Sept. 16. Jim Shaw's ''Donner Party'' merges the saga of the ill-fated Donner-Reed Party, westbound settlers trapped in the High Sierras in the winter of 1846 to 1847, with Judy Chicago's benchmark feminist installation ''The Dinner Party.'' The central element is a ring of miniature covered wagons that mimics the dining table in Ms. Chicago's work, with 27 sculptures assembled from items purchased in thrift stores. It may seem like a work based on sick, twisted, juvenile humor (O.K., it is -- but that's Mr. Shaw's allure), yet ''The Donner Party'' also contemplates how myths -- national or, in the case of Ms. Chicago, individual -- are forged and perpetuated, and it serves as a cautionary tale for taking them too seriously. A Museum of Modern Art affiliate, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Schwendener)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'ORGANIZING CHAOS,' through Sept. 24. With John Cage as spirit guide, this exhibition presents eight works by eight artists in eight large galleries with no muss, no fuss, no nasty spillover, although this doesn't rule out many interesting connections. The subject of ''organizing chaos'' is broached in film, video, text and photographs that alternate between macrocosmic and microcosmic, silence and noise, anarchic and tightly scripted. Orchestras, entropy, human hatred and life in the studio, the Sunday papers and the backyard are invoked in contributions from Luke Fowler, Rivane Neuenschwander and Cao Guimaraes, Bruce Nauman, Christian Marclay, Tomoko Takahashi, Robert Smithson, Hans-Peter Feldmann and Stephen Vitiello. (See above.) (Smith)
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'GENERATION 1.5,' through Dec 2. Generation 1.5 refers to people who emigrate during their adolescent years, whose identity is shaped by both their old and new cultures. Some of the works in this exhibition address this process; elsewhere the show floats into general meditations on globalization and cultural dislocation. Lee Mingwei's ''Quartet Project,'' a sound and video installation, uses monitors playing a performance of Dvorak's ''American Quartet.'' Seher Shah's drawings combine lotus patterns, Mecca cubes and Western architectural motifs, and works by Rirkrit Tiravanija and Emily Jacir explore the successful contemporary artist as a globalized citizen. The show is emblematic of the museum's program, which is increasingly devoted to reflecting the borough's extreme diversity, but risks turning the immigrant experience into a platitude. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. 
 (Schwendener)
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'IL LEE: BALLPOINT DRAWINGS,' through Sept. 30. A selection of drawings -- striking indigo and black ink abstractions, all done exclusively in ballpoint pen, on paper and canvas -- makes up this engrossing show by the veteran Korean artist Il Lee. The centerpiece is a 50-foot drawing that took two and a half months and 400 to 500 ballpoint pens to complete, with the artist working on sections at a time that were propped up against the wall in his Brooklyn studio. It is a sweeping, rhythmical abstraction in blue recalling the Italian Futurist paintings of Giacomo Balla, combined with elements of traditional Asian ink and wash painting. (See above.) (Genocchio)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'MIDNIGHT'S DAYDREAM,' through Oct. 28. The three artists in this show were artists in residence at the Studio Museum of Harlem in the last year, but their work represents very different approaches. Titus Kaphar is the classicist, taking European and American portrait paintings from the 18th and 19th centuries and reconfiguring them into strategic compositions. Wardell Milan II is the archetypal collagist, photographing arrangements of art reproductions, family photos and images cut from magazines. Demetrius Oliver is the Conceptualist, working in the trickster vein of David Hammons and Duchamp. All three, however, actively confront race and (art) history, which often seems a mandate for young black artists. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Schwendener)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'RUDOLF STINGEL,' through Oct. 14. The work of this Italian-born artist, who is based in New York, seduces the eye while also upending most notions of what, exactly, constitutes a painting, how it should be made and by whom. His favored materials include carpet and Styrofoam, as well as paint on canvas. His style swings between abstract purity and Photo Realism. His grandly spare survey has a mirrored floor and a foil-covered room, lighted by a crystal chandelier, that visitors may mark on and that he may or may not later appropriate as a painting. As enthralling as it is perturbing, his work combines beauty, humor and a democratic slant with a rigorous sense of economy. It also forms one of the best-looking exhibitions seen lately at the Whitney. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SUMMER OF LOVE: ART OF THE PSYCHEDELIC ERA,' through Sept. 16. Tear gas, pot and patchouli were the scents of the 1960s. You can almost detect the last two wafting through this two-floor display of rock posters, light shows, photographs and paintings. But the burn of tear gas, with the association of political emergency it brings, is missing in a show that remembers a lot, but forgets much more, about what was happening 40 years ago, when America was losing its mind to save, some would say, its soul. (See above.) ( 
 Cotter)
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'AMERICANS IN PARIS: ABSTRACT PAINTING IN THE FIFTIES' This show comes loaded with associations: Gertrude Stein and Hemingway, Gershwin's tone poem. (The Met also mounted a show of paintings last year titled ''Americans in Paris: 1860-1900.'') Paintings here echo what was popular in New York in the 1950s. Although the canvases aren't as large, the gestures are big, and bold colors, splatters and drips abound in works by Al Held, Norman Bluhm, Seymour Boardman, Shirley Jaffe, Joan Mitchell and Sam Francis. One artist who ran against the Abstract Expressionist tide is Ellsworth Kelly, whose horizontal collage with hard-edged stripes makes him seem less like an American in Paris than a painter forecasting Daniel Buren -- or what the French would do in the 1960s. Tibor de Nagy, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 262-5050, tibordenagy.com, through Sept. 29. (Schwendener)
 'KOREAN FUNERARY FIGURES: COMPANIONS FOR THE JOURNEY TO THE OTHER WORLD' What makes this somewhat unusual for a show of mortuary art is that the kkoktu, or figures adorning funeral biers, were created for ordinary citizens rather than for aristocrats or the wealthy. They're also rather fun and friendly. Brightly painted clowns, acrobats and animals were meant to accompany the dead into the next world, to ease the journey and provide consolation for the mourners. Among the 74 kkoktu are versions of ''The Guide,'' riding an animal; ''The Guard,'' who protects the soul from evil spirits; ''The Caregiver'' (generally women); and ''The Entertainer,'' as well as a replica of a funeral bier modeled on a late-18th-century original from Tongyoung, South Kyongsang Province. The Korea Society, 950 Third Avenue, (212) 759-7525, koreasociety.org, through Nov. 20. (Schwendener)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'THE LATH PICTURE SHOW' The title signals that a certain predominance of wood -- raw, finished, real, fake -- among the efforts of 20 contemporary artists. It is deployed in assorted forms to cheerfully crowded nearly carnivalesque effect. There is leaning, stacking, signage, old-fashioned carpentry, as well as photography and installation. Unless you count Robert Melee's colorful, wall-size variation on rec room decor (and parquet flooring), painting is absent. In other words, playing on Peter Bogdanovich's 1971 movie, this is the show beyond ''The Last Picture Show.'' Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9467, petzel.com, through Sept. 22. (Smith)
 'MICROWAVE, FIVE' Where most galleries reveal their ''program,'' or general slant, with more or less candor in summer group shows, ''microwave, five'' is like a manifesto. A few veteran artists who work with obsessive precision, like Yayoi Kusama and Tom Friedman, offer some historical grounding. Younger artists include Ken Solomon, whose hand-painted postage stamps sent through the mail are here, as well as Jacob El Hanani, Adam Fowler, Xawery Wolski and Gloria Ortiz-Hernandez. Missing is Yuken Teruya, a maker of virtuosic tree sculptures cut out of paper bags, and one of Ms. Bienvenu's most popular artists and probably the best representative of this meticulous aesthetic. Josee Bienvenu, 529 West 20th Street, joseebienvenugallery.com, through Sept. 15. (Schwendener)
 'PACKEDSOCKDRAWER' This is a strong candidate for best 2007 summer show title, even if, by no fault of its own, the recently closed ''NeoIntegrity,'' at Derek Eller, with nearly 200 artists, felt more like a packed sock drawer. The compactness of the show's title is echoed in both the works and the installation of Steve McCall's abstract, biomorphic paintings; David Moreno's photographs with concentric-circular compositions; Gary Batty's minute filigrees drawn on thick, cream-colored, handmade paper; and Tamara Zahaykevich's petit, colorful wall-mounted sculptures made with foam board, tape and glue. The caveat with a great show title is that you're tempted to stretch it out to the work, which here means comparing it to footwear, but we won't go there. Feature Inc., 530 West 25th Street, featureinc.com, through Sept. 20. (Schwendener)
 Galleries: Other
 MARTIN CREED: 'FEELINGS' Operating somewhere between a sardonic court jester and an art-world Martha Stewart (try this at home), the British Conceptualist Martin Creed pokes fun at the avant-garde while extending its traditions. Occupying 24 spacious galleries, this show includes marker-pen monochromes; sculptures consisting of stacks of beanbag chairs and sheets of plywood; a person who runs through the galleries every 10 minutes; videos of people engaged in basic bodily functions; and a gallery full of dark blue balloons that is the next best thing to an antigravitational chamber. Immense and provocative fun, the work also strikes deep at the heart of art and its role in the world. Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7598, through Sept. 16. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE GREAT COVER-UP: AMERICAN RUGS ON BEDS, TABLES AND FLOORS' The more than 60 rugs in this extraordinary show count among the best pictorial art of 19th- and early-20th-century America, which means that quite a few of the women who made them qualify as great, if unidentified, artists. Densely textured, gloriously colored, boldly scaled and exuberantly frontal, they were made between 1800 and 1950 and provide something of a history of the American handmade rug, from mostly yarn-sewn to the wildly popular hooking technique. Their intuitive intelligence, where space and composition are concerned, proves once more that modern form is not a modern invention. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 NINA BERMAN: 'PURPLE HEARTS' One of the more shocking photographs to come out of the current war in Iraq was taken last year in a rural town in the American Midwest. It's a studio portrait by Nina Berman of a young Illinois couple on their wedding day. The bride is dressed in a traditional white gown; the groom, a former Marine sergeant, is in full dress. Her expression is unsmiling, maybe grave. His face is all but featureless, with no nose and no chin, as blank as a pullover mask, the results of disfiguring wounds sustained in combat. The show also includes 10 portraits of wounded veterans from Ms. Berman's series ''Purple Hearts.'' Whatever your politics, the show, installed in a small storefront gallery, adds up to a desolating antiwar statement. Jen Bekman Gallery, 6 Spring Street, between the Bowery and Elizabeth Street, Lower East Side; (212) 219-0166, jenbekman.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter) 
 'DOUBLE X-RATED: WHERE THE GIRLS ARE' The ''Double X'' in the title of this all-woman group show, organized by Amelia Abdullahsani, refers to female chromosomes, which clearly do not determine any one art style. Despite a shared realism, goth-subculture portraits by the Stockholm-based Ulrika Minami Warmling are very different from Noel Grunwaldt's beautiful watercolors of dead birds. Katrin Sigurdardottir hides landscapes in boxes; Francesca Gabbiani conjures them up in collages; Joy Garnett continues her project of painting the contemporary political landscape, in this case in images derived from news reports of burning Paris immigrant neighborhoods. Stellan Holm Gallery, 524 West 24th Street, (212) 627-7444, stellanholm.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'BIOGRAPHICAL LANDSCAPE: THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF STEPHEN SHORE, 1969-1979' In 1971 the Metropolitan Museum of Art gave Stephen Shore its second-ever exhibition by a living photographer. (Alfred Stieglitz had the first.) He was 23 when it opened. What he did comprises most of this wonderful show. Mr. Shore has reprinted the photographs digitally, with rejuvenated colors as fresh and subtle as the day the pictures were shot. The work's wit and affection add buoyancy to scenes of America from a moment when the country was depressed by war and years of civil unrest. Its formal rigor makes an uncanny order out of images that, at first glance, look like no place or nothing. Look again. His show reminds us of a period when cutting-edge American art and the tradition of straight, documentary photography got together. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at West 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org; closes on Sunday. 
 (Michael Kimmelman) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'LET YOUR MOTTO BE RESISTANCE: AFRICAN-AMERICAN PORTRAITS' This show of photographic portraits is a praise-song in pictures, a shout-out to history. It's also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African-American History and Culture in Washington. It tends to be a little too fancy, a little too short on grit. Still, what a party it is, with a Who's Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X, and with Leontyne Price, Mahalia Jackson and the Supremes sharing a stage. (See above.) Closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 SOL LEWITT: 'DRAWING SERIES ...' If the greatness of Sol LeWitt, the Minimal-Conceptual artist who died in April at 78, has so far escaped you, this exhilarating show of 14 of his mind-teasing, eye-filling wall drawings from the late 1960s and early '70s may do the trick. Selected and arranged by the artist, they proceed in carefully sequenced contrasts and echoes that are both insightful and idiosyncratic. Since their generating instructions are part of their titles, they reduce the creative process to a short, highly visible straight line. But their crisp geometries, accumulating marks and radiating patterns force us to mind the gap between artistic thought and artistic action, to experience the inability of language to account fully for visual outcome. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, diabeacon.org; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN DIASPORAN ARTS: 'THE FRENCH EVOLUTION: RACE, POLITICS & THE 2005 RIOTS' Alexis Peskine serves as an informed guide to recent events in France, although his position is somewhat complicated. Son of a Franco-Russian father (an architect) and an Afro-Brazilian mother, Mr. Peskine holds a bachelor of fine arts degree from Howard University and a master's from the Maryland Institute College of Art, which set him distinctly apart from the working-class youth in the banlieue, or suburb. His training as a graphic artist is evident in paintings that appropriate elements from comics, cartoons and food products, while his interest in hip-hop culminates in a music video titled ''Ripa'' (slang for Paris). Uneven at times, Mr. Peskine's work is ambitious and reflective. It also succeeds in showing us how in France's difficulties we feel echoes of our own. 80 Hanson Place, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0492, mocada.org; closes on Sunday. (Schwendener)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RICHARD SERRA SCULPTURE: 40 YEARS' This retrospective is a landmark by a titan of sculpture. At 67, Mr. Serra is still nudging the language of abstraction, constructing ever more awesome mazes of looming Cor-Ten steel. His ''Torqued Ellipses'' and ''Torqued Toruses'' and other recent works like ''Band'' and ''Sequence'' have their origins in pieces he did 40 years ago in rubber and lead, as this retrospective handsomely affirms, but these are nonetheless unprecedented variations on the theme of dumbfounding spirals and loops. These shapes and experiences are new. That's about the best, and the rarest, compliment you can give to any artist. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Kimmelman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



143 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Pension Effect From Tax Plan Is Called Slight

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and JENNY ANDERSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
Pension fund and tax specialists told Congress on Thursday that a proposal to more than double the tax rate of executives at private equity and hedge funds, who invest retirement monies, would have negligible impact on the returns received by pensioners.
 The testimony was significant because critics of the tax proposals have maintained that fund managers would pass on any increase to investors, thus lowering the returns of pension funds that millions of Americans rely upon for their retirement.
 Specialists testifying before House and Senate committees said that although the pension funds had invested billions of dollars in hedge and equity funds, the amounts are a small part of their overall assets -- less than 10 percent, according to recent studies. As a result, they said, an increase in the tax rate for the managers of the hedge and equity funds would not significantly harm pension funds.
 This year, senior lawmakers in the House and Senate introduced legislation to increase the tax rate of private equity and hedge funds. They are seeking to use the extra revenue to offset spending and reduce taxes in other areas, most notably a reduction in the alternative minimum tax. The legislation has gained traction in the House but faces significant obstacles in the Senate. 
 A bill in the House introduced by senior Democrats on the Ways and Means Committee would raise the rate on investment gains of fund managers, known as carried interest, to the ordinary income tax rate of as much as 35 percent; the current rate is the capital gains rate of 15 percent. 
 At a daylong hearing, lawmakers heard conflicting testimony about the legislation and its effect on the economy. Bruce E. Rosenblum, managing director of the Carlyle Group and chairman of an industry lobbying organization, said that increasing the taxes would drive overseas ''growth capital now invested to strengthen American companies.''
 ''There is no inequity in the current taxation of capital gains attributable to carried interest,'' Mr. Rosenblum said. ''Fairness requires that the tax code not single out certain investors for less favorable treatment.''
 But Leo Hindery Jr., a former executive in the cable television industry who is now managing partner at a private equity fund, InterMedia Partners, disagreed, telling the committee that the industry had taken advantage of a ''tax loophole the size of a Mack truck.''
 ''Congress, starting with this committee, needs to tax money management income, what we call carried interest, as what it is, which is plain old ordinary income,'' Mr. Hindery said. He called the argument that the tax increases would hurt the economy ''self-serving'' and ''complete poppycock.''
 He was joined by William D. Stanfill, a founding partner of TrailHead Ventures, a venture capital firm in Denver, who said that his compensation should be taxed the same as teachers, firefighters and movie stars. ''I don't think it's fair for those teachers and firefighters to subsidize special tax breaks for me and other venture capitalists,'' Mr. Stanfill said. ''Or for private equity and hedge fund managers.''
 Lawmakers questioned four panels of witnesses on what a higher tax might do to the industry and the economy. 
 ''I believe there would be an adverse economic impact,'' said Jack S. Levin, a partner at Kirkland & Ellis who has written extensively on private equity and venture capital.
 Most of his panel disagreed. Dispelling the notion that higher taxes would lead to lower returns, Orin S. Kramer, chairman of the New Jersey State Investment Council, said, ''In competitive markets, firms cannot automatically pass their costs on to their customers.''
 Many members and panelists focused on issues of equity. 
 ''It does not take a Ph.D. in economics to see that the average family pays an average rate of 25 percent while someone making a lot more money is paying 15 percent,'' said Darryll K. Jones, a panelist who is a law professor at Stetson University College of Law.
 In the Senate, the chairman and the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee have introduced a measure that would raise to 35 percent from 15 percent the tax rate on certain partnerships that go public, like the Blackstone Group and the Fortress Group.
 At a hearing before the Finance Committee, Alan J. Auerbach, director of the Robert D. Burch Center for Tax Policy and Public Finance at the University of California, Berkeley, said fallout from an increase would be hard to predict, but he estimated that pensioners might see a decline in returns of 1 basis point, or one hundredth of 1 percent.
 He said that the proposed increase could lead to higher costs for private equity and hedge funds, which would be shared by investors and fund managers.
 Russell Read, the chief investment officer of the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, said he could not predict what a higher tax rate would do to his programs' returns. He noted that only about 7 percent of Calpers' assets of more than $240 billion were invested in private equity, although he added that those investments were important because they had consistently outperformed other investments and added billions of dollars in incremental returns.
 ''It's hard to tell what the effect would be,'' Mr. Read said. ''Our hope is that it would be small.''
 Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who heads the Finance Committee, suggested that he did not believe an increase in taxes would significantly affect pensioners because of the competitiveness of the marketplace for investments by pension funds.
 ''The data says to me that hedge funds and private equity funds may need pension funds more than pension funds need private equity or hedge funds,'' Mr. Baucus said. ''And that means that hedge funds and private equity funds may not have the economic power simply to pass along increased costs to pension funds.''
 Recognizing that no broad-based support had developed in the Senate for the House proposal, Mr. Baucus has not introduced legislation to increase the tax rate on carried interest. His decision to hold a hearing on the subject on Tuesday suggested that he was interested in the idea and might support a measure after the House acts.
 Even before Thursday's hearings, some public pension fund managers had disputed the notion that taxing the income of private equity managers at ordinary rates, rather than the lower capital gains rate, would hurt returns. 
 ''I don't buy it at all,'' said Michael Musuraca, the designated trustee for the $42 billion New York City Employees Retirement System. ''I don't buy that their paying additional taxes will limit their incentives to make money for themselves or their pensioners. I think they have enough incentives to do their business.''
 In response to the legislation, the private equity industry has intensified its lobbying. 
 According to a document prepared for Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat, by one equity firm, the Blackstone Group, the taxing of publicly traded partnerships at a higher rate would result in less tax revenue for the federal government. 
 The document noted that the proposal was ''so oppressive that it would in effect deny access to public markets to a vibrant, growing part of the U.S. economy that is a critical force underpinning the health of the whole U.S. financial services industry (already under duress) and the economies of many major cities in the U.S.''
 Some specialists, however, question that logic, asking how raising taxes could create less revenue if the industry is such a significant and growing part of the economy.
 ''One of the funny things about this debate is that according to the industry, it is not going to raise any revenue but at the same time, it's going to shut down the industry. They can't both be true,'' said Daniel Shaviro, the Wayne Perry professor of taxation at New York University. 
 ''If they are so concerned with the pensioners then they shouldn't be paying less than the pensioners that they are serving,'' Mr. Musuraca said. 
 A moment of comic relief came when one member of the House Ways and Means Committee pressed some of the panelists who work in the hedge fund industry to estimate the average pay among hedge fund managers. 
 After an awkward silence, and prodding by the congressman, one witness conceded ''millions,'' and then $500 million. The top earner last year, according to Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine, earned $1.7 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Senate Finance Committee yesterday heard testimony that pensioners would not suffer from higher taxes for private equity and hedge fund executives. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); CELEBRITIES (68%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); INTERMEDIA PARTNERS (52%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



144 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rise, but Figures May Mask Troubles

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Despite dire predictions, the back-to-school shopping season was not a disaster. 
 Or was it? 
 From department stores to discounters, retailers beat dour Wall Street estimates for August, with sales up 2.9 percent compared with last year. It was a respectable, if lackluster, performance given economic jitters from a slumping housing market and spiking fuel prices. 
 But chains like Wal-Mart Stores and Macy's, which led the pack, have slashed prices and dangled large discounts to lure customers, which could hurt profits and mask troubles that might spill out during the crucial holiday season. 
 And two large states, Florida and Texas, pushed back the start of their school openings -- and tax-free shopping days -- by several weeks this year, inflating the August sales of teenage-oriented retailers like Abercrombie & Fitch and Aeropostale, analysts said. 
 ''These are not runaway, fantastic numbers,'' said John D. Morris, an industry analyst at Wachovia Securities in New York. 
 Interviews with retail chief executives -- generally an optimistic, cheerleading bunch -- found them expressing serious reservations about the outlook for consumer spending over the next several months. ''It will be tougher than it is now,'' said Myron E. Ullman, chief executive of J. C. Penney, referring to shoppers' anxiety about the economy. ''I do not see anything on the horizon that will turn this around.'' 
 The chief executive of Staples, Ronald L. Sargent, described himself as ''nervous'' about the holidays; ''maybe cautious is the better word,'' he said. ''The economic forecast is causing people to delay buying what they can delay buying. They are not running out to get the latest all-in-one H.P. printer.''
 According to the International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group, sales at the 47 stores it tracks reached $55.2 billion in August. That amounted to a 2.9 percent increase, which is a relatively weak showing compared with August 2006, when sales rose 3.8 percent. 
 In a sign that consumer spending may be pinched, discounters rather than full-price chains reported the strongest performance in August. Sales at stores open at least a year, a standard measure in retailing, rose 6.1 percent at Target and 3.1 percent at Wal-Mart, both exceeding analysts' predictions. 
 ''It might be the first sign of the consumer trading down to cheaper prices,'' said Bill Dreher, an analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. 
 Wal-Mart, for example, said that consumers flocked to its stores for bedding, apparel and towels, categories that the chain had struggled with for much of the year. But big discounts helped send shoppers to those aisles.
 The department store industry fared less well. Sales fell 4 percent at J. C. Penney, 5 percent at Dillard's and 0.6 percent at Kohl's. But when their performances for July and August, generally regarded as the back-to-school shopping period, are averaged, all three chains reported stronger figures. 
 Macy's, however, reported a 2.4 percent increase in sales for August -- a surprise, given the problems that have bedeviled the retailer all year, since its parent company merged with May Department Stores. After reducing the discounts offered to shoppers at May stores and watching its sales drop, the chain has added coupons to drum up consumer interest, which likely bolstered business. 
 The teenage apparel industry, typically the strongest during the back-to-school season, did not disappoint. Sales grew 6 percent at Abercrombie & Fitch, 9 percent at American Eagle Outfitters, 9.6 percent at Pacific Sunwear and 1.7 percent at Aeropostale.
 But those numbers were slightly misleading. Abercrombie, for example, said that without the delay of tax-free shopping days in Florida and Texas, its sales would have risen just 1 percent rather than 5 percent. 
 The long-suffering Gap chain said sales fell 1 percent, an improvement over July, when sales fell 7 percent. Sales rose 2 percent at the namesake Gap stores and 7 percent at Banana Republic, suggesting a turnaround for both. But at Old Navy, which has struggled for years, sales dropped 4 percent. 
 As ever, luxury chains remained immune from the problems plaguing lower-end retailers. Sales rose 6.6 percent at Nordstrom and 18.2 percent at Saks.
 Assessing August, Michael P. Niemira, the chief economist at the International Council of Shopping Centers, said the ''underlying pace of demand remained slower than during the same time of the prior year.'' 
 He added that the credit crunch unsettling the stock market has not ''spilled over to the consumer. But this remains a risk to monitor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A father and son shopped yesterday for back-to-school clothes at Macy's. The school season helped retailers post sales gains. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: ''GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX'' Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year. ''SALES'' Results are for the four weeks ended Sept. 1, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier. (Source: Goldman Sachs & Company, based on company reports.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL SALES (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); BED BATH & LINEN SHOPS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (73%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (51%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (73%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%)

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (56%); RONALD L SARGENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



145 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Blaming Politics, Iraqi Antigraft Official Vows to Quit

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Reporting was contributed by Damien Cave, Ahmad Fadam and Johan Spanner from Baghdad, and by Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Anbar, Kirkuk, Mosul and Tikrit.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
Iraq's highest ranking anticorruption officer, Judge Radhi Hamza al-Radhi, has asked Iraq's prime minister to accept his resignation and, in an interview Thursday, cited political pressure as the reason he sought to leave his job. 
 Judge Radhi is the chief of the Public Integrity Commission, which has initiated hundreds of corruption inquiries in the past three years, including investigations of several current and former cabinet members. He said the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki had tried to limit his commission's scope and to close cases by saying they fell outside his purview and should be handled by the judiciary. 
 ''I cannot just sit in my place and see corruption eating the Iraqi state, so I asked for retirement,'' said Judge Radhi, who is currently traveling in the United States. He added later that he had recently received anonymous threats on his life if he did not stop his work.
 The judge has been much respected for trying to root out wrongdoing in Iraqi ministries, which are accused of being rife with corruption. But he has also made many enemies and has been criticized by some for his aggression in pursuing those cases. The commission sometimes had hundreds of investigations going simultaneously, only some of which resulted in charges. In some cases, the subjects of investigations fled when they believed they might be charged.
 Former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi complained about the commission's style during his tenure, as has Mr. Maliki's government. Mr. Maliki said earlier this week that the commission's work was under investigation by a parliamentary committee. The little-noted comment came during a wide-ranging press conference, and Mr. Maliki did not provide specifics about the accusations made against the judge.
 Mr. Maliki said at the time that he feared that if Judge Radhi left his post, he might abscond with evidence. ''He might have hidden some papers,'' Mr. Maliki said, ''but we will track down all of them and follow up to bring him back to Iraq and have the courts decide if he was innocent or guilty.''
 Judge Radhi said the prime minister was trying to tarnish his name and push him out, drawing attention away from the corruption of the government. He said that he was in the United States for medical treatment that might take up to two months and that he would return to Iraq ''when the situation becomes good.''
 Among the agencies that have been at the center of the judge's inquiries are the Labor, Transportation, Electricity, Housing, Defense and Interior Ministries. The commission has also focused on members of Parliament. 
 The commission is an independent agency set up by L. Paul Bremer III, the chief administrator in Iraq after the American invasion in 2003. It does not have the power to bring cases but can undertake investigations and then send the evidence to the judiciary, which has the power to pursue criminal charges. 
 In other developments on Thursday, the United States military killed 14 people early in the day when it fired on a Shiite-majority neighborhood where the Mahdi Army, a Shiite militant group linked to Moktada al-Sadr, has been active, according to Iraqi officials. 
 The United States military confirmed the attack and said it was taking aim at criminal elements in Al Washash, a neighborhood in western Baghdad. 
 Al Washash, a poor area of humble houses and small, rickety markets, has had sectarian tensions for nearly three years, with Shiites singling out the minority Sunnis who live there. More recently the neighborhood has come under the Mahdi Army's control. 
 The militiamen targeted on Thursday were ''involved in murder, extortion of local citizens and attacks on local police,'' the American military said in a statement. 
 The military said it was concentrating on Mahdi units that were continuing to fight Americans despite Mr. Sadr's call last week for his group to suspend attacks on Americans and on other Shiite factions. 
 ''It appears many honorable members of Jaish al-Mahdi are fulfilling Sadr's pledge of honor to stop attacks and reduce the violence,'' the military said, using the Arabic name for Mr. Sadr's group. ''However, a few attacks on coalition forces and innocent Iraqis have continued. Our assumption is that these groups are not honoring Sadr's orders and thus will not be subject to the restraint we have observed for those who are responding to Sadr's orders.'' 
 According to people in Washash who asked not to be identified, there were 20 to 30 explosions, and they said five local Mahdi Army leaders and eight foot soldiers were killed. Eight houses and 10 cars were destroyed, the people said. They did not mention any civilian deaths, although Iraqi officials said nine people were wounded.
 In Ramadi, the capital of Anbar Province, Iraqi and American dignitaries, including Iraq's two vice presidents, attended a forum on economic development. Iraqi officials promised to spend $70 million to support growth in Ramadi and $50 million to remunerate families whose houses have been destroyed since 2003, when American soldiers first entered the province. 
 The meeting was also attended by Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador to Iraq, and Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware. It brought together many of the Sunni Arab sheiks who are now working with the American military to defeat Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, a homegrown extremist group that American intelligence says is foreign-led. 
 In Kirkuk, where doctors have increasingly become targets for insurgents, a well-known Christian doctor, Riadh Ramo, was kidnapped at his clinic in the center of the city. 
 In Baghdad, 12 unidentified bodies were found on Thursday, according to an Interior Ministry spokesman who asked for anonymity because he is not authorized to speak on the subject.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Montadar Ali, 4, was comforted yesterday after most of his family was killed when the United States military attacked a Shiite neighborhood in Baghdad where insurgents have been active. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HADI MIZBAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



146 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: New Loss for Home Builder

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
The luxury-home builder Hovnanian Enterprises reported its fourth consecutive quarterly loss on Thursday, citing continuing problems of credit availability and high inventory.
 The company also said it would cut prices on homes across the country beginning late next week to try to sell off excess inventory. 
 After paying preferred stock dividends, the company reported a loss of $80.5 million, or $1.27 a share, for the quarter that ended July 31. This was in contrast to a profit of $74.4 million, or $1.15 a share, for the period a year ago.
 Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial were expecting Hovnanian to lose 99 cents a share in the quarter.
 The company, based in Red Bank, N.J., builds luxury homes in 18 states, including California, Florida, New Jersey and New York.
 In the quarter, Hovnanian incurred $108.6 million in pretax charges for write-offs of land deposits and land value markdowns.
 Revenue in the quarter dropped 27 percent, to $1.13 billion, from $1.55 billion a year ago.
 The chief executive, Ara K. Hovnanian, said conditions in most of the company's markets remained challenging.
 Last week, Fitch Ratings downgraded its credit ratings on several home builders, including Hovnanian, citing the problems in the home mortgage industry.
 Fitch said the downgrading also reflected negative trends in Hovnanian's operating margins and deterioration in its credit figures.
 Hovnanian's sales results showed evidence of the continued housing slump as contracts for the third quarter declined 24.2 percent, to 2,539. Hovnanian sold 3,179 completed homes, down 31.2 percent from 4,623 in the third quarter of last year.
 To try to bolster sales, the company is offering a nationwide three-day sale beginning Sept. 14. Hovnanian will offer deep discounts in each of its 449 communities.
 In after-hours trading, Hovnanian shares rose 41 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $11.78.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PREFERRED STOCK (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); DIVIDENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: ARA K HOVNANIAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



147 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 612 words

 BODY:
A PRICE CUT, AND THEN ANGER 
 A day after Apple announced that it would drop the price of its iPhone by $200, a move that angered early buyers, Steven P. Jobs acknowledged the upset and extended a $100 store credit to consumers who paid the higher price. 
 MANDATORY TOY TESTING The nation's largest toy makers have taken the unusual step of asking the federal government to impose mandatory safety-testing standards for all toys sold in the United States. [C1.] 
 TESTIMONY ON TAX PROPOSAL Pension fund and tax specialists told Congress that a proposal to more than double the tax rate of executives at private equity and hedge funds, who invest retirement monies, would have negligible impact on the returns received by pensioners. Critics of the proposal have argued the higher taxes would be passed onto investors and reduce the returns of the funds. [C1.] 
 ANGST OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS Many people rushed into residential real estate sales when the booming housing market made selling homes seem like a sure bet at the casino. But now, as the housing market slows to a crawl, those new agents and a good number of more established ones are looking for other employment. [C1.] 
 The rate of home loans in foreclosure rose to a record level in the second quarter of 2007. [C4.] 
 BEHIND THE AUGUST SALES DATA Retailers beat Wall Street estimates for August, with sales up 2.9 percent compared with last year. But chains like Wal-Mart Stores and Macy's, which led the pack, have dangled large discounts to lure customers, which could hurt profits and mask troubles that might spill out during the crucial holiday season. [C3.] 
 CHRYSLER STEALS FROM TOYOTA Toyota's highest-ranking American executive, James E. Press, was named co-president at Chrysler, a reversal of the trend of Detroit auto executives defecting to foreign rivals. [C1.] 
 EASING INFLATION WORRIES Worker productivity rebounded in the April-June quarter, growing at the fastest pace in nearly two years, while wage pressures eased, the Labor Department reported. Both developments are likely to reduce inflation worries. [C9.] 
 JOINT VENTURE AGAINST DISEASE Two biotechnology companies, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals and Isis Pharmaceuticals, are joining forces in commercial pursuit of an emerging scientific field that could lead to treatments for numerous diseases. [C2.] 
 PLAN TO EASE FLIGHT DELAYS Air travelers hoping that a proposed reconfiguration of air traffic in the New York and Philadelphia area will soon reduce chronic flight delays could be in for yet another long wait: some municipalities in New Jersey and New York are suing to stop the plan because it would route noisy jets over areas unaccustomed to such traffic. [A22.] 
 LATTE GRANDE IN MOSCOW Starbucks opened its first Russian cafe after prevailing in a three-year battle against a trademark squatter. The Seattle-based coffee maker now operates in 43 countries. [C3.] 
 MORE THAN LOW STICKER PRICES Hyundai Motor America will introduce on Monday a campaign meant to improve substantially the image of Hyundai as a value brand, sold primarily on the basis of lower sticker prices. The theme: ''Think about it.'' Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C7.] 
 RATE CUT PROSPECTS BRIGHTEN Wall Street shook off early uncertainty to close moderately higher as a series of mixed economic reports made investors more optimistic about the chances for an interest rate cut. [C9.] 
 VIRUS SEEN IN BEE DEATHS Scientists sifting genetic material from thriving and ailing bee colonies say a virus appears to be a prime suspect -- but is unlikely to be the only culprit -- in the mass die-offs of honeybees reported last fall and winter. [A18.] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); TRENDS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (77%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); TAX CONSULTING (70%); RANKINGS (69%); FORECLOSURE (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (62%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

COMPANY: ALNYLAM PHARMACEUTICALS INC (63%); WAL-MART STORES INC (54%)

TICKER: ALNY (NASDAQ) (63%); WMT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (63%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



148 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Romney To Propose Ending Taxes On Holdings

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Sept. 6 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney is set to propose eliminating taxes on most investment earnings for families that make under $200,000 a year, the first in what his campaign says will be a series of announcements throughout the fall on the specifics of his tax policy. 
 The plan entails eliminating taxes on interest earnings, capital gains and dividend income for households that earn less than that income threshold, said Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for the campaign. Mr. Romney plans to promote the proposal Friday while campaigning in northern New Hampshire.
 Mr. Romney, who is seeking the Republican presidential nomination, has been talking on the trail for months about his plan to eliminate taxes on savings for middle-income Americans, often poking fun at a tax-relief proposal by John Edwards, a Democratic candidate, that would exempt the first $250 of investment income from capital gains taxes. 
 ''Whoop-de-do,'' Mr. Romney said Wednesday at the Republican debate in New Hampshire. ''That's not going to buy you retirement, it's not going to buy you a house, and someone yelled out it's not going to buy him a haircut, either.''
 This will be the first time, however, that Mr. Romney has attached a specific income range to his pledge. 
 Mr. Romney's advisers have estimated that his plan will benefit 95 percent of American families, costing the federal government about $32 billion a year.
 To make up for that loss, Mr. Fehrnstrom said, Mr. Romney will lean on another pledge, to veto any budget that does not cap discretionary nonmilitary spending at the rate of inflation minus one percentage point, as well as his plan to garner savings in Medicaid and Medicare and to spur economic growth with the tax cuts.
 Mr. Romney and his Republican opponents have jockeyed furiously over their fiscal conservative bona fides, with Rudolph W. Giuliani's campaign pointing out that a recent report by the antitax group Club for Growth was decidedly mixed on Mr. Romney's record in Massachusetts but more positive about Mr. Giuliani's tenure as mayor of New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BUDGETS (78%); VETO (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MEDICARE (64%); MEDICAID (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



149 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: A New Report on Iraq Lends Ammunition to Both Parties

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
An independent commission of military experts, created by Congress to assess Iraq's military and police force, presented a finely nuanced report to the Senate Armed Services Committee on Thursday. 
 But the report could not have been more straightforward for two presidential candidates who are members of the committee: Senator John McCain of Arizona, a Republican, and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, a Democrat. The candidates, though, reached totally opposite conclusions about it, in line with their different positions on the war.
 For Mr. McCain, the report provided powerful support for his long-held position that it would be a mistake for Congress to set a firm deadline for withdrawing troops from Iraq. When retired Gen. James L. Jones of the Marines, who led the commission, told the committee, ''I think deadlines can work against us and I think a deadline of this magnitude would be against our national interest,'' Mr. McCain could not have been more satisfied. ''I thank you,'' he said. 
 For Mrs. Clinton, the commission's finding that there had been little political progress in Iraq buttressed her view that a firm deadline was crucial.
 ''How do we get the appropriate pressure on the Iraqi government to do what we know they must do for the Iraqi people to have any future and for us to, you know, withdraw?'' she asked General Jones. ''If we take away deadlines, we take away benchmarks, we take away timelines. What is the urgency that will move them to act?'' 
 The contrasting positions of the two senators provided a stark example of how Republicans and Democrats are maneuvering to shape the discourse on the Iraq war amid a cascade of studies, reports and analyses leading up to reports next week by Gen. David H. Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker, the top Americans in Iraq. With much new information at hand, there is little sign so far that lawmakers in either party are changing their views. 
 At the hearing on Thursday, Democrats continued their sharp criticism of the Bush administration and expressed deep frustration over the slow progress in Iraq. Republicans, meanwhile, sought to highlight the recent military progress and improved security conditions reported by the commission as solid evidence that staying the course in Iraq was the right thing to do. 
 The most eye-opening comments came from General Jones and other members of the commission, which provided some of the most detailed analysis of military operations in Iraq presented to date on Capitol Hill. 
 General Jones, in his opening statement, declared, ''The Iraqi security forces, as a whole, cannot yet defend the territorial integrity of Iraq.'' But he quickly added, ''This is not necessarily an alarming conclusion.'' 
 He continued: ''Improvement has been noted in the internal security missions -- for example, in denying a safe haven to terrorists. And this improvement is likely to continue in the near future.'' He also said a major shift in strategy and reduction in American troops might be feasible as soon as early next year. 
 But General Jones also acknowledged that the grim political situation in Iraq was hampering military efforts and that it remained the biggest obstacle to the eventual withdrawal of American troops. 
 In addition to providing the progress report on the Iraqi security forces that Congress had requested, the commission also offered an array of suggestions intended, as General Jones put it, to ''help in trying to arrive at a way ahead that will enable success in this critical mission.'' 
 Those suggestions included steps to improve the image of the United States military, so it would be seen less as an occupying force and more as a force working for the transition to Iraqi sovereignty. 
 General Jones said the commission urged the establishment of an ''Iraqi-Coalition transition headquarters'' that would focus on military, political, economic and legal issues and would ''show visible and consistent progress toward transition, which is a crucial message that people need to understand.'' 
 Senators in both parties expressed gratitude for the commission's work. ''I would hope the president would take into consideration the valuable findings that you made,'' said Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, who together with Senator Robert S. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, sponsored the law creating the commission. 
 But the hearing also served as a platform for senators to restate their positions, including Mr. Byrd. ''President Bush said we would stand down as Iraq forces stood up,'' he said. ''We have yet to see much standing up.'' 
 Democrats, among them the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, pressed the commission about why Iraqi security forces had not been able to take on more responsibility, more quickly. 
 Mr. Levin, who has been working to broker a deal on legislation that would require at least a modest withdrawal of troops, focused repeatedly on those parts of the report suggesting that a reduction of forces in the near future is not only possible but prudent. 
 ''The assumption of that greater responsibility by the Iraqi forces, you've indicated should lead to a reduction in the number of our forces,'' Mr. Levin said to General Jones. ''So far, are we together?'' 
 ''We're together, sir,'' the general replied. 
 Republicans, in turn, focused on the positive developments. 
 ''We can't just ignore the good news,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. ''And that is that you find that the Iraqi armed forces are increasingly effective and capable of assuming greater responsibility for internal security of Iraq.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of an independent commission meeting with senators yesterday on Capitol Hill included, from left, John Hamre, retired Gen. George Joulwan and retired Gen. James L. Jones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (58%)

PERSON: JAMES L JONES (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



150 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Bush, After Talks With China's Leader, Accepts Invitation to Beijing Olympics

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Friday, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush has accepted an invitation from President Hu Jintao of China to attend the 2008 summer Olympics in Beijing, a move that drew condemnation from human rights advocates and a Republican member of Congress, who are calling for a boycott of the Games.
 Mr. Hu extended the invitation -- reiterating an offer he had made -- during a private meeting with Mr. Bush here late on Thursday, on the eve of an economic meeting of leaders of Asian nations. Their 90-minute talk touched on a variety of issues, including climate change, the recent recalls of tainted toys made in China and a new plan for a hot line to link the Chinese and American militaries. 
 But it was the Olympics announcement that grabbed the most attention -- so much so that on Friday morning here, Mr. Bush defended his decision in a speech at Sydney's famous opera house.
 ''I'm looking forward to going,'' he told business delegates at the meeting, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. ''It's going to be a great moment of pride for the Chinese people. It will also be a moment where China's leaders can use the opportunity to show confidence by demonstrating a commitment to greater openness and tolerance.''
 The decision was announced while most Americans were still asleep. But by the time Mr. Bush delivered his speech, human rights advocates were accusing him of giving his imprimatur to a country that is jailing dissidents, denying religious freedom and, in their view, not exerting its influence as a major buyer of Sudanese oil to stop what Mr. Bush himself has termed genocide in Sudan's Darfur region.
 Back in Washington, a Republican congressman, Representative Dana Rohrabacher of California, said in a telephone interview that he and eight other Republicans would press a resolution calling for the United States to boycott the Games. In a statement, Mr. Rohrabacher likened Mr. Bush to Franklin D. Roosevelt, who attended the Berlin Games when Hitler ruled Germany.
 ''If this were 1936, would President Bush be anxious to sit next to Adolf?'' Mr. Rohrabacher wrote. ''The president's presence in the Communist Party sky box is certainly contradictory to his so-called commitment to democracy in the Middle East or his emotional expression of concern over the genocide in Sudan.''
 Chinese officials said they were bewildered by the attempt to link Darfur to the Olympics. Ambassador Liu Guijin, the Chinese government's special representative for Darfur, told reporters in Washington on Thursday that no foreign head of state had turned down an invitation to the Beijing Olympics because of Darfur. 
 ''The Olympics and Darfur are totally different issues,'' he said. ''It's like cattle and horses. They are totally different.''
 Mr. Bush often says that the United States and China have ''a complex relationship,'' a phrase he reiterated during a news conference with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia this week. Michael Green, who was Asia director of the National Security Council under Mr. Bush in 2004 and 2005, said the president's attendance would place ''subtle pressure'' on the China to improve its record on human rights.
 ''There are members of Congress who are organizing a boycott of the Olympics,'' Mr. Green said in an interview. ''The Chinese will dismiss their stands on human rights by saying these are enemies of China. But the president has credibility on Chinese-U.S. relations, and he uses that. He can do things like go to the Olympics and criticize human rights abuses, and the Chinese will listen.''
 But Sophie Richardson, an Asia expert at Human Rights Watch, an advocacy organization, said Mr. Bush was giving ''an enormous propaganda opportunity to an abusive government.'' The group has not called for a boycott of the Games, though, on the theory that the Olympics could be used to raise awareness of human rights abuses in China. She called on Mr. Bush to do so.
 Mr. Bush's deputy press secretary, Dana Perino, said the president was going to the Games as a sports fan, not to make any political statement. But she said the president did raise human rights and religious freedom ''in a forceful way'' during his private meeting with Mr. Hu. 
 Mr. Bush, who once owned part of the Texas Rangers baseball team, did not attend the 2004 Olympics in Athens, which took place while he was in the thick of his re-election campaign. Mr. Green said he had known for months that the president wanted to attend the 2008 Olympics.
 ''The bottom line is he just loves sports, and I'm sure he wants to go, like any other guy, because it's going to be exciting,'' Mr. Green said. ''I think he's going to watch.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about President Bush's decision to attend the 2008 summer Olympics in Beijing, despite opposition by human rights advocates, referred incorrectly to the American presence at the 1936 Olympics in Hitler's Germany. President Franklin D. Roosevelt did not attend. (The 1936 circumstances were raised on Thursday by Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California, who likened Mr. Bush's situation to the one faced by Roosevelt. But Mr. Rohrabacher did not say in his statement that Roosevelt attended the games in Germany.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush and President Hu Jintao of China after their meeting late yesterday in Sydney, Australia. The 90-minute session included topics like climate issues and military ties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); GENOCIDE (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); MAMMALS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (68%); PRODUCT RECALLS (55%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DANA ROHRABACHER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SUDAN (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



151 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-14 
 General Wary of Cuts In Troop Levels in Iraq
 Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq, has told President Bush that he wants to maintain heightened troop levels in Iraq well into next year to reduce the risk of military setbacks, but could accept the pullback of roughly 4,000 troops beginning in January, in part to assuage critics in Congress, according to senior administration and military officials.A1 
 More Suspects in Terror Case 
 German investigators are trying to build a case against a handful of suspects beyond the three arrested in connection with a foiled terrorist attack.A8 
 Bush to Attend Beijing Games
 President Bush accepted an invitation from President Hu Jintao of China to attend the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, drawing condemnation from human rights advocates who are calling for a boycott of the Games.A10 
 Syria Says Airspace Breached
 Israeli officials were tight-lipped after Syria said Israeli planes had violated its airspace and Syrian air defenses had confronted the planes.A12 
 Frist to Lead Aid Drive
 Bill Frist, the former Senate majority leader, said that he would lead Save the Children's drive to publicize to Americans the preventable deaths of children in the developing world. A3
 Indian State Loses Workers
 Once heralded as an emblem of social equality, the Indian state of Kerala is suffering from rampant unemployment, leading more residents than ever to seek work abroad. A1 
 NATIONALA16-23 
 Thompson Begins Run With a Focus on the Right
 Fred D. Thompson had one central strategic goal as he formally began his presidential campaign: to win over conservatives who are disheartened at their current choice of Republican candidates by positioning himself as the ideological and stylistic heir of Ronald Reagan. A1 
 Part of Patriot Act Voided
 A federal judge struck down the parts of the recently revised USA Patriot Act that authorized the Federal Bureau of Investigation to use informal secret demands called national security letters to compel companies to provide customer records. A16 
 Air Traffic Plan Is Resisted
 Some municipalities in New Jersey and New York are suing to stop a proposed reconfiguration of air traffic because it would route noisy jets over areas unaccustomed to such traffic. A20 
 Week of Excessive Heat Ends
 A week of excessively high temperatures, which killed over two dozen people and caused sporadic power failures, has ended in Southern California. A16 
 Ruling Prompts Warnings
 The Social Security Administration says a federal judge's ruling last week suspending a crackdown on employers who hire illegal immigrants could cause a major disruption in its processing of millions of routine retirement and disability claims. A18 
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Virus Seen in Bee Deaths
 Scientists sifting genetic material from thriving and ailing bee colonies say a virus appears to be a prime suspect -- but is unlikely to be the only culprit -- in the mass die-offs of honeybees reported last fall and winter. A16 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA26-27
 Mixed Reviews at Clinic For Ground Zero Workers
 A clinic at Mount Sinai Medical Center in charge of tracking and treating ground zero workers and volunteers has examined more than 15,000 since 9/11. But some doctors say its performance in a number of important areas has been flawed. A1
 Corruption in New Jersey
 Eleven public officials in New Jersey, including two members of the State Assembly,were charged with taking thousands of dollars in bribes in exchange for promising municipal business to undercover officers posing as insurance brokers. A26
 BUSINESS DAYC1-9 
 Apple Irks iPhone Users
 Apple angered loyal customers by dropping the price of its iPhone to $400, from $600, two months after it went on sale. The company admitted it had abused its core customers' trust, and said it would issue $100 store credits to iPhone users. C1 
 Toy Makers Ask for Rules
 The nation's largest toy makers have asked the federal government to impose mandatory safety testing standards for all toys sold in the United States. C1
 SPORTSFRIDAYC15-19
 Marbury's Bizarre Summer
 Knicks guard Stephon Marbury gave away $4 million in June -- a gesture that has been overshadowed by an offseason filled with ''He said what?'' moments and laughter at his expense. C19 
 OBITUARIESC12-C14Luciano Pavarotti
 The Italian singer whose ringing, pristine sound set a standard for operatic tenors of the postwar era was 71. C12
 EDITORIALA28-29
 Editorials: Really leaving no child behind; questions about a rising suicide rate; ready for his close-up; Lawrence Downes on a box of worms in his backyard.
 Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); TERRORISM (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); US PATRIOT ACT (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); ARRESTS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); FOREIGN LABOR (70%); APICULTURE (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); OLYMPICS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); POWER FAILURES (60%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (56%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (54%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); DAVID PETRAEUS (73%); HU JINTAO (68%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KERALA, INDIA (55%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); SYRIA (93%); CHINA (92%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



152 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS AND BONDS Shares Gain as Hopes Rise for a Rate Cut

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street shook off early uncertainty to close moderately higher yesterday as mixed economic reports made investors more optimistic about the chances of a cut in interest rates.
 The market was uneasy after the Mortgage Bankers Association said the percentage of homeowners beginning the foreclosure process reached a record 0.65 percent in the second quarter -- the third consecutive quarter that the figure set a record. Though investors want growth to be slow enough to merit a rate cut when the Federal Reserve meets Sept. 18, they do not want to see the economy weaken to the point of recession. 
But investors gleaned some reason for optimism from comments by Richard W. Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, who said inflationary pressures were ''increasingly well behaved,'' and that the Fed was ''listening carefully'' to signals about business conditions. William Poole, president of the St. Louis Fed, made similar comments earlier in the day.
 ''They didn't explicitly say they were going to cut rates, but some of the talk from the day gave reason to believe they may be leaning that way,'' said Todd Salamone, director of trading at Schaeffer's Investment Research.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 57.88, or 0.44 percent, to 13,363.35.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.26, or 0.43 percent, to 1,478.55, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 8.37, or 0.32 percent, to 2,614.32. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.35, or 0.04 percent, to 792.92.
 The credit markets, whose problems caused the volatility on Wall Street over the last month, remained tight. The New York Fed, which carries out the central bank's market operations, injected $31.25 billion through three repurchase agreements yesterday -- the largest amount the Fed has injected in weeks -- to help keep the markets liquid.
 The Fed also reported that about 3 percent of asset-backed commercial paper, a type of bond companies sell for quick cash, was unable to be rolled over in the week that ended Wednesday.
 A barrel of light crude oil settled up 57 cents, to $76.30, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It briefly spiked above $77 after the United States Embassy in Nigeria warned that Western interests in the country were at risk of a terrorist attack. 
 With investors on alert for any sign that recent financial market turmoil has hurt consumer spending, better-than-expected August sales from Wal-Mart Stores and Target came as a welcome surprise and beat Wall Street estimates. Wal-Mart rose 31 cents, to $42.76, and Target rose $1.51, to $63.39.
 The luxury department store chain Saks Inc. and the teenage apparel retailer Pacific Sunwear of California also topped analyst projections. Saks rose 49 cents, to $15.81; Pacific Sun advanced 74 cents, to $14.99. 
 The investment bank Lehman Brothers fell 52 cents, to $53.83, after it announced it was laying off 850 people from its home lending business in the United States and Britain. The company previously announced the closing of its BNC Mortgage subsidiary.
 The 10-year Treasury note fell 10/32, to 101 30/32, raising its yield to 4.51 percent, from 4.47 percent late Wednesday. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); RETAILERS (83%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (83%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); RECESSION (76%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); DEPARTMENT STORES (63%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (57%); TERRORISM (50%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: PACIFIC SUNWEAR OF CALIFORNIA INC (80%); SAKS INC (80%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (70%); WAL-MART STORES INC (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

TICKER: PSUN (NASDAQ) (80%); SKS (NYSE) (80%); WMT (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (80%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (80%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (80%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (80%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (80%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (62%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (62%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009



153 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Virus Is Seen as Prime Suspect in Death of Honeybees

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
Scientists sifting genetic material from thriving and ailing bee colonies say a virus appears to be a prime suspect -- but is unlikely to be the only culprit -- in the mass die-offs of honeybees reported last fall and winter. 
 The die-offs, in which adult bees typically vanished without returning to hives, were reported by about a fourth of the nation's commercial beekeepers. The losses captured public attention as rumors swirled about causes, like climate change, cellphone signals and genetically-modified crops. Scientists have rejected those theories. 
 Now, one bee disease, called Israeli acute paralysis virus, seems strongly associated with the beekeeping operations that experienced big losses, a large research group has concluded, although members of the team emphasized that they had not proved the virus caused the die-offs. 
 ''I hope no one goes away with the idea that we've actually solved the problem,'' said Jeffrey S. Pettis, an entomologist with the Department of Agriculture and co-director of a national group working on the puzzle, which has been given the name colony collapse disorder. 
 The project involved an unusual partnership between entomologists and scientists working at the leading edge of human genetic research. It employed the same technology being used to decode Neanderthal DNA and the personal genome of James Watson, a co-discoverer of the structure of DNA.
 The research was described yesterday in Science Express, the online edition of the journal Science. Details are available at eurekalert.org/bees. 
 Even with the caveats, the possible identification of a virus involved in large bee die-offs is ''exceptionally important,'' said May Berenbaum, who heads the entomology department at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, and was not involved in the study. ''Among other things, figuring out where this one came from will help us prevent future problems.''
 Dr. Berenbaum, who led a 2006 National Academies study of problems with bees and other pollinators, said that finding ways to swiftly home in on novel diseases is ever more important in a globally linked economy. She noted that the first reports of the latest bee die-offs in the United States came in 2004, the first year the country allowed the import of honeybees -- from Australia in this case -- since 1922. 
 The new study found evidence of the virus in some Australian bee samples, although that country has not reported die-offs like those seen in the United States.
 Dr. Pettis said that even if the virus was involved, it was likely that more than one factor had to align for a hive to collapse, with another possible influence being poor nutrition. Most of the colonies that had big losses last winter were in areas that experienced drought a few months beforehand, and thus a lack of nectar in flowers, he said. 
 Another factor, Dr. Pettis said, could be the stress that comes from the increasingly industrial-style beekeeping operations in the United States, in which truckloads of hives crisscross the country to pollinate California almonds or Florida orchards each season. 
 But the virus stands out as a top suspect. While seven viruses and a host of bacteria and parasites were identified in the genetic screening, only the Israeli bee virus, first identified in 2004, was strongly tied to the samples taken from keepers who reported the collapse disorder.
 While the virus was first identified by scientists in Israel, it appears to exist in many parts of the world, said W. Ian Lipkin, an author of the new study and director of the Center for Infection and Immunology of Columbia University. In Israel, the virus also seems to produce bee symptoms not reported in the United States, including a pattern of finding dead bees near hives. 
 Dr. Lipkin, whose focus is human disease, became involved because the quest for a cause for the beehive collapses employed new genetic sifting techniques that he said might also prove useful in investigating outbreaks of human diseases.
 One hint of the involvement of an infectious agent, he said, was the recent finding that abandoned hives sterilized with radiation could be repopulated with healthy bees. 
 The study initially examined bees from four beekeepers who reported die-offs, as well as healthy bees from Hawaii and Pennsylvania. Genetic material was extracted and analyzed with a machine from 454 Life Sciences, a company immersed in the race to make gene sequencing a fast, cheap technology. 
 Statistical analysis showed that a colony with the Israeli virus was 65 times more likely to have had the collapse disorder than one without it. To try to clarify cause and effect, the researchers said they were preparing a new suite of tests in which isolated bee colonies would be intentionally infected with the virus, both with and without possible secondary causes like certain parasites.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the potential for the swine flu virus to mutate into a more lethal form misstated part of the name of a research center led by one expert, Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, who said the virus was effective at keeping itself alive in its present, mild form. Dr. Lipkin is director of the Center for Infection and Immunity -- not Immunology -- at Columbia University. (The error also appeared in an article on Sept. 7, 2007, about a virus suspected in mass die-offs of honeybees.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andy Bradshaw, left, his grandfather, Howard Bradshaw, and Isaias Corona work with bees near Visalia, Calif., earlier this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (91%); APICULTURE (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); DNA (90%); ENTOMOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (79%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (79%); CLIMATOLOGY (79%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (79%); CLIMATE CHANGE (79%); HOMICIDE (78%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (78%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (75%); NUTRITION (70%); PARALYSIS (70%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2007



154 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall Sharply on Latest Economic Signals

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply today and investors sought safety in government debt after a new government report showed an abrupt drop in employment in August and raised fears of a recession.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down 1.7 percent, at 1,453.55, and the Dow Jones industrial average was down 249.97 points, or 1.9 percent, to 13,113.38. The Nasdaq composite index showed a comparable decline, and losses were even sharper in European markets.
The net loss of 4,000 jobs in August, combined with a downward revision of employment gains in June and July, suggested that the economy may not have been as strong earlier this year as previously thought.
 If the jobs report had been merely lackluster, it might have been welcomed by investors as a sign that inflation fears had abated sufficiently to make a cut in the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate this month all but certain. The reversal in job growth, however, raised fears that corporate profits will weaken as the market upheaval moves beyond the housing and financial sectors and casts a chill on the broader economy.
 ''This number was a surprise, not a pleasant one,'' said Tobias Levkovich, chief equity strategist at Citigroup. ''Nobody predicted this, or the revisions for the prior couple of months. This was not a good number, no ifs and buts about it.'' But Mr. Levkovich cautioned that investors may have been drawing too broad a conclusion about the economy based on data from just one month.
 In a classic move away from risk, investors rushed into Treasuries. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, a key benchmark for the bond market that moves in the opposite direction of its price, fell to its lowest level at 4.37 percent in more than a year and a half. Yesterday evening, the yield was at 4.51 percent. The price of the 10-year note rose 1 3/32, to 103 1/32.
 The dollar fell against most major world currencies on anticipation of a rate cut and weakening economic conditions in the United States. The Japanese yen gained 1.7 percent against the dollar and the euro was up 0.57 percent. Gold, long considered a safe haven, was up 0.7 percent.
 For market specialists, the employment report, which showed big losses in manufacturing and construction jobs, virtually guaranteed a cut in the next Fed's benchmark rate, now at 5.25 percent, at the next meeting of policy makers on Sept. 18. 
 The futures market this afternoon was predicting that the Fed would cut rates by half percentage point, to 4.75 percent, up from the quarter point cut they were predicting yesterday. Investors believe the Fed will have to cut rates to 4.5 percent by the end of the year.
 Wall Street and many housing industry officials have been clamoring for a rate cut for much of the year. In recent days, Fed officials have suggested they are poised to respond to the crisis in the credit markets that started in late July and escalated in August. But policy makers have also noted that they did not yet see broader problems in the economy as a result of the turmoil in the housing and credit markets.
 ''They have been trying everything at their disposal before going for what the market perceives as the magic bullet of a rate cut,'' said Douglas M. Peta, chief market strategist at J. W. Seligman & Company, an investment firm in New York. ''Only after some time has passed and we have gotten new data, only then they are they going to be cutting. This is the last step providing them with cover to cut.'' 
 Over time, lower interest rates should ease borrowing costs for businesses and consumers, but in the nearer term, market specialists agree that any cut may do little to improve the outlook for the economy. People who are having a tough time refinancing a mortgage or businesses who cannot sell bonds may remain locked out of the debt markets for some time to come.
 For investors, the key concern going forward will be how much will consumers cut back. Until now, they have continued to spend in spite of the trouble some are having with their mortgages and falling home prices. But if the job market weakens significantly from here, that will likely change.
 ''If people have jobs, they pay their bills,'' Mr. Peta said. The question is ''will weakness in employment lead to weakness in spending?''
 Spending by consumers, of course, drives corporate profits, which so far this year have defied expectations of a major slowdown. If other reports confirm the weak reading in today's employment report, analysts are likely to reduce their expectations for profits and stocks could suffer as a result.
 The Wall Street consensus expectation for earnings growth for the fourth quarter is 11 to 12 percent, notes Robert C. Doll, vice chairman at BlackRock, the asset management company. He expects profits will grow somewhat slower than that, but he does not think that the economy will fall into a recession, which would require the gross domestic product to shrink for two quarters in a row.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); FUTURES (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BOND MARKETS (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); INFLATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); EURO (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



155 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 4254 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
'KOHEI YOSHIYUKI: THE PARK' It is hard to characterize this unusual exhibition of black-and-white photographs from the 1970s by the Japanese photographer Kohei Yoshiyuki. Basically they are snapshots, taken in Tokyo parks at night using a 35-millimeter camera, infrared film and flash to document the people gathered for amorous trysts, as well as -- and this is the bizarre part -- the hordes of spectators hiding in the bushes who watched, and sometimes even participated in, the action. 
 The three dozen images at Yossi Milo Gallery in Chelsea show more or less equal numbers of heterosexual and homosexual couplings, but they are not simply about sex or even the social strictures of Japanese society at a time when loving couples were forced into the park. They are about the guilty, if electric, pleasure of voyeurism, which drew people to these lonely locales all those years ago and draws us to Mr. Yoshiyuki's photographs, which by and large are not terribly well composed or printed. Several pictures are slightly out of focus, and at times movement blurs the figures. But somehow it all adds to the allure, giving them a grainy realism. We delight in the naughty, clandestine quality of the imagery, viewed in safety from another time and place. But the experience is no less engrossing. (Through Oct. 20, Yossi Milo Gallery, 525 West 25th Street, 212-414-0370, www.yossimilo.com.) BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO 
 Museums
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'INFINITE ISLAND: CONTEMPORARY CARIBBEAN ART,' through Jan. 27. This large show, with 45 artists and a collective of designers, photographers and architects from the Dominican Republic adding to the count, fills two floors of temporary exhibition space, and care has been given to the selection. Several of the most substantial pieces were commissioned for the occasion. Organized by Tumelo Moshaka, associate curator of exhibitions at Brooklyn, it's an in-house job, a labor of love, though an uneven one. Too much work treads ground already covered by other art over the years. But what's good is really good, and the very existence of a show about identity politics, out of mainstream fashion in 2007, is cause for serious reflection. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. 
 (Holland Cotter)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'RICHARD POUSETTE-DART,' through Sept. 25. The youngest member of the first generation of Abstract Expressionists, Pousette-Dart (1916-1992) helped break the ice for the movement, only to be omitted from its histories. This show, while too small to make sense of his enormous output, confirms his originality, but also that he did his best work after 1960, when he extended his Ab-Ex origins into an eccentric hybrid of Minimal and Op Art that is alternately hallucinatory and kitschy. His late paintings don't so much hang on the wall as float in front of it, looking like either planes of granular light or slabs of jeweled stucco. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. 
 (Roberta Smith)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'EXCELLENCE AND ELEGANCE: DECORATIVE ARTS OF THE EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY QING COURT,' through Nov. 25. The consummate ambition that Chinese artists brought to diminutive scale is a striking feature of this small show of art from the Qing dynasty, China's last imperial line. The Qing were both conservatively antiquarian and expansively cosmopolitan, and those trends can be seen in the European-inflected versions of ancient Chinese forms in this show. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
 * THE MET: 'INCISIVE IMAGES: IVORY AND BOXWOOD CARVINGS,' through Nov. 25. This extraordinary show, drawn almost entirely from the Met's vaults, presents an array of nearly 100 carved figures, crucifixes, reliefs, containers, hand-held weapons and the occasional piece of furniture. It is an engrossing hive of religious fervor, Classical erudition (and occasional naughtiness), style shifts and multicultural crosscurrents. And among the many feats of drop-dead artistic skill are several of traffic-stopping caliber. Don't miss it. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'NEO RAUCH AT THE MET: PARA,' through Oct. 14. The figurative style of the leader of the Leipzig School is never less than ambitious, but here it looks almost fatally retro, as if the context of the Met had made the painter's mind turn to thoughts of browned-out colors; characters of a Romantic 19th- century mien; and settings that often suggest garrets or hunting lodges. The result is an exhibition that looks too much at home in the museum and sells Mr. Rauch's talent short, but is still one that should be seen. (See above.) (Smith)
 * THE MET: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Dec. 2. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen who not only conceive and design their own objects but have a direct hand in making them, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer; John Cederquist's elegant cabinet concealed behind a trompe l'oeil door painted and veneered to look like a battered wooden packing case with a rowdy wave tearing through it; and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. Traditionalists, too, have their place in this show, with the wood workers Wharton Esherick and Sam Maloof represented by elegantly simple renditions in the furniture line; respectively, a music stand and a Shaker-like settee. (See above.) (Grace Glueck) 
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'EL MUSEO'S BIENAL: THE (S) FILES,' through Jan. 6. You feel the growing pains and attempts to stretch out in the fifth edition of ''The (S) Files'' (short for ''The Selected Files).'' The show provides a survey of 51 emerging artists based in New York and from this year's invited guest country, Ecuador. Some of the works distinctly consider location, displacement and identity. Others are less concerned with issues that make for good biennial panel discussions and more interested in mining older art -- Surrealism, Minimalism and Postminimalism -- and employing craft techniques. Many of the artists in ''The (S) Files'' have appeared in other local survey shows, which raises the criticism often leveled at biennials: that in trying to cover the waterfront of contemporary art, they end up making the waterfront look, from every angle, increasingly the same. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Martha Schwendener)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'NEW YORK RISES: PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE DE SALIGNAC,' through Oct. 28. This exhibition makes a case for adding Eugene de Salignac, the official photographer for the New York City Department of Bridges, Plant and Structures from 1903 to 1934, to the canon of American photographers whose images are forever linked with the city. He captured the Williamsburg, Manhattan and Queensboro Bridges just as construction was completed and the subways tracks were being laid. In some of his moving, eye-catching images, he exhibits his appreciation for New York's work force. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1673, mcny.org. (Bridget L. Goodbody)
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: 'THE ABSTRACT IMPULSE: FIFTY YEARS OF ABSTRACTION AT THE NATIONAL ACADEMY, 1956-2006,' through Jan. 6. This exhibition illuminates the troubled history of abstraction at the academy over the last half-century, with a selection of 47 paintings, sculptures and works on paper by its members, many only recently elected, who took part in movements like Abstract Expressionism, Minimalism and Kinetic and Op Art. Drawn almost entirely from the museum's collection, it may not be an outstanding group of artworks, but it helps to explain how this once-celebrated museum and school lost much of its prestige. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Benjamin Genocchio)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'THE DONNER PARTY,' through Sept. 16. Jim Shaw's ''Donner Party'' merges the saga of the ill-fated Donner-Reed Party, westbound settlers trapped in the High Sierras in the winter of 1846 to 1847, with Judy Chicago's benchmark feminist installation ''The Dinner Party.'' The central element is a ring of miniature covered wagons that mimics the dining table in Ms. Chicago's work, with 27 sculptures assembled from items purchased in thrift stores. It may seem like a work based on sick, twisted, juvenile humor (O.K., it is -- but that's Mr. Shaw's allure), yet ''The Donner Party'' also contemplates how myths -- national or, in the case of Ms. Chicago, individual -- are forged and perpetuated, and it serves as a cautionary tale for taking them too seriously. A Museum of Modern Art affiliate, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Schwendener)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'ORGANIZING CHAOS,' through Sept. 24. With John Cage as spirit guide, this exhibition presents eight works by eight artists in eight large galleries with no muss, no fuss, no nasty spillover, although this doesn't rule out many interesting connections. The subject of ''organizing chaos'' is broached in film, video, text and photographs that alternate between macrocosmic and microcosmic, silence and noise, anarchic and tightly scripted. Orchestras, entropy, human hatred and life in the studio, the Sunday papers and the backyard are invoked in contributions from Luke Fowler, Rivane Neuenschwander and Cao Guimaraes, Bruce Nauman, Christian Marclay, Tomoko Takahashi, Robert Smithson, Hans-Peter Feldmann and Stephen Vitiello. (See above.) (Smith)
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'GENERATION 1.5,' through Dec 2. Generation 1.5 refers to people who emigrate during their adolescent years, whose identity is shaped by both their old and new cultures. Some of the works in this exhibition address this process; elsewhere the show floats into general meditations on globalization and cultural dislocation. Lee Mingwei's ''Quartet Project,'' a sound and video installation, uses monitors playing a performance of Dvorak's ''American Quartet.'' Seher Shah's drawings combine lotus patterns, Mecca cubes and Western architectural motifs, and works by Rirkrit Tiravanija and Emily Jacir explore the successful contemporary artist as a globalized citizen. The show is emblematic of the museum's program, which is increasingly devoted to reflecting the borough's extreme diversity, but risks turning the immigrant experience into a platitude. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. 
 (Schwendener)
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'IL LEE: BALLPOINT DRAWINGS,' through Sept. 30. A selection of drawings -- striking indigo and black ink abstractions, all done exclusively in ballpoint pen, on paper and canvas -- makes up this engrossing show by the veteran Korean artist Il Lee. The centerpiece is a 50-foot drawing that took two and a half months and 400 to 500 ballpoint pens to complete, with the artist working on sections at a time that were propped up against the wall in his Brooklyn studio. It is a sweeping, rhythmical abstraction in blue recalling the Italian Futurist paintings of Giacomo Balla, combined with elements of traditional Asian ink and wash painting. (See above.) (Genocchio)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'MIDNIGHT'S DAYDREAM,' through Oct. 28. The three artists in this show were artists in residence at the Studio Museum of Harlem in the last year, but their work represents very different approaches. Titus Kaphar is the classicist, taking European and American portrait paintings from the 18th and 19th centuries and reconfiguring them into strategic compositions. Wardell Milan II is the archetypal collagist, photographing arrangements of art reproductions, family photos and images cut from magazines. Demetrius Oliver is the Conceptualist, working in the trickster vein of David Hammons and Duchamp. All three, however, actively confront race and (art) history, which often seems a mandate for young black artists. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Schwendener)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'RUDOLF STINGEL,' through Oct. 14. The work of this Italian-born artist, who is based in New York, seduces the eye while also upending most notions of what, exactly, constitutes a painting, how it should be made and by whom. His favored materials include carpet and Styrofoam, as well as paint on canvas. His style swings between abstract purity and Photo Realism. His grandly spare survey has a mirrored floor and a foil-covered room, lighted by a crystal chandelier, that visitors may mark on and that he may or may not later appropriate as a painting. As enthralling as it is perturbing, his work combines beauty, humor and a democratic slant with a rigorous sense of economy. It also forms one of the best-looking exhibitions seen lately at the Whitney. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SUMMER OF LOVE: ART OF THE PSYCHEDELIC ERA,' through Sept. 16. Tear gas, pot and patchouli were the scents of the 1960s. You can almost detect the last two wafting through this two-floor display of rock posters, light shows, photographs and paintings. But the burn of tear gas, with the association of political emergency it brings, is missing in a show that remembers a lot, but forgets much more, about what was happening 40 years ago, when America was losing its mind to save, some would say, its soul. (See above.) ( 
 Cotter)
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'AMERICANS IN PARIS: ABSTRACT PAINTING IN THE FIFTIES' This show comes loaded with associations: Gertrude Stein and Hemingway, Gershwin's tone poem. (The Met also mounted a show of paintings last year titled ''Americans in Paris: 1860-1900.'') Paintings here echo what was popular in New York in the 1950s. Although the canvases aren't as large, the gestures are big, and bold colors, splatters and drips abound in works by Al Held, Norman Bluhm, Seymour Boardman, Shirley Jaffe, Joan Mitchell and Sam Francis. One artist who ran against the Abstract Expressionist tide is Ellsworth Kelly, whose horizontal collage with hard-edged stripes makes him seem less like an American in Paris than a painter forecasting Daniel Buren -- or what the French would do in the 1960s. Tibor de Nagy, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 262-5050, tibordenagy.com, through Sept. 29. (Schwendener)
 'KOREAN FUNERARY FIGURES: COMPANIONS FOR THE JOURNEY TO THE OTHER WORLD' What makes this somewhat unusual for a show of mortuary art is that the kkoktu, or figures adorning funeral biers, were created for ordinary citizens rather than for aristocrats or the wealthy. They're also rather fun and friendly. Brightly painted clowns, acrobats and animals were meant to accompany the dead into the next world, to ease the journey and provide consolation for the mourners. Among the 74 kkoktu are versions of ''The Guide,'' riding an animal; ''The Guard,'' who protects the soul from evil spirits; ''The Caregiver'' (generally women); and ''The Entertainer,'' as well as a replica of a funeral bier modeled on a late-18th-century original from Tongyoung, South Kyongsang Province. The Korea Society, 950 Third Avenue, (212) 759-7525, koreasociety.org, through Nov. 20. (Schwendener)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'THE LATH PICTURE SHOW' The title signals that a certain predominance of wood -- raw, finished, real, fake -- among the efforts of 20 contemporary artists. It is deployed in assorted forms to cheerfully crowded nearly carnivalesque effect. There is leaning, stacking, signage, old-fashioned carpentry, as well as photography and installation. Unless you count Robert Melee's colorful, wall-size variation on rec room decor (and parquet flooring), painting is absent. In other words, playing on Peter Bogdanovich's 1971 movie, this is the show beyond ''The Last Picture Show.'' Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9467, petzel.com, through Sept. 22. (Smith)
 'MICROWAVE, FIVE' Where most galleries reveal their ''program,'' or general slant, with more or less candor in summer group shows, ''microwave, five'' is like a manifesto. A few veteran artists who work with obsessive precision, like Yayoi Kusama and Tom Friedman, offer some historical grounding. Younger artists include Ken Solomon, whose hand-painted postage stamps sent through the mail are here, as well as Jacob El Hanani, Adam Fowler, Xawery Wolski and Gloria Ortiz-Hernandez. Missing is Yuken Teruya, a maker of virtuosic tree sculptures cut out of paper bags, and one of Ms. Bienvenu's most popular artists and probably the best representative of this meticulous aesthetic. Josee Bienvenu, 529 West 20th Street, joseebienvenugallery.com, through Sept. 15. (Schwendener)
 'PACKEDSOCKDRAWER' This is a strong candidate for best 2007 summer show title, even if, by no fault of its own, the recently closed ''NeoIntegrity,'' at Derek Eller, with nearly 200 artists, felt more like a packed sock drawer. The compactness of the show's title is echoed in both the works and the installation of Steve McCall's abstract, biomorphic paintings; David Moreno's photographs with concentric-circular compositions; Gary Batty's minute filigrees drawn on thick, cream-colored, handmade paper; and Tamara Zahaykevich's petit, colorful wall-mounted sculptures made with foam board, tape and glue. The caveat with a great show title is that you're tempted to stretch it out to the work, which here means comparing it to footwear, but we won't go there. Feature Inc., 530 West 25th Street, featureinc.com, through Sept. 20. (Schwendener)
 Galleries: Other
 MARTIN CREED: 'FEELINGS' Operating somewhere between a sardonic court jester and an art-world Martha Stewart (try this at home), the British Conceptualist Martin Creed pokes fun at the avant-garde while extending its traditions. Occupying 24 spacious galleries, this show includes marker-pen monochromes; sculptures consisting of stacks of beanbag chairs and sheets of plywood; a person who runs through the galleries every 10 minutes; videos of people engaged in basic bodily functions; and a gallery full of dark blue balloons that is the next best thing to an antigravitational chamber. Immense and provocative fun, the work also strikes deep at the heart of art and its role in the world. Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7598, through Sept. 16. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE GREAT COVER-UP: AMERICAN RUGS ON BEDS, TABLES AND FLOORS' The more than 60 rugs in this extraordinary show count among the best pictorial art of 19th- and early-20th-century America, which means that quite a few of the women who made them qualify as great, if unidentified, artists. Densely textured, gloriously colored, boldly scaled and exuberantly frontal, they were made between 1800 and 1950 and provide something of a history of the American handmade rug, from mostly yarn-sewn to the wildly popular hooking technique. Their intuitive intelligence, where space and composition are concerned, proves once more that modern form is not a modern invention. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 NINA BERMAN: 'PURPLE HEARTS' One of the more shocking photographs to come out of the current war in Iraq was taken last year in a rural town in the American Midwest. It's a studio portrait by Nina Berman of a young Illinois couple on their wedding day. The bride is dressed in a traditional white gown; the groom, a former Marine sergeant, is in full dress. Her expression is unsmiling, maybe grave. His face is all but featureless, with no nose and no chin, as blank as a pullover mask, the results of disfiguring wounds sustained in combat. The show also includes 10 portraits of wounded veterans from Ms. Berman's series ''Purple Hearts.'' Whatever your politics, the show, installed in a small storefront gallery, adds up to a desolating antiwar statement. Jen Bekman Gallery, 6 Spring Street, between the Bowery and Elizabeth Street, Lower East Side; (212) 219-0166, jenbekman.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter) 
 'DOUBLE X-RATED: WHERE THE GIRLS ARE' The ''Double X'' in the title of this all-woman group show, organized by Amelia Abdullahsani, refers to female chromosomes, which clearly do not determine any one art style. Despite a shared realism, goth-subculture portraits by the Stockholm-based Ulrika Minami Warmling are very different from Noel Grunwaldt's beautiful watercolors of dead birds. Katrin Sigurdardottir hides landscapes in boxes; Francesca Gabbiani conjures them up in collages; Joy Garnett continues her project of painting the contemporary political landscape, in this case in images derived from news reports of burning Paris immigrant neighborhoods. Stellan Holm Gallery, 524 West 24th Street, (212) 627-7444, stellanholm.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'BIOGRAPHICAL LANDSCAPE: THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF STEPHEN SHORE, 1969-1979' In 1971 the Metropolitan Museum of Art gave Stephen Shore its second-ever exhibition by a living photographer. (Alfred Stieglitz had the first.) He was 23 when it opened. What he did comprises most of this wonderful show. Mr. Shore has reprinted the photographs digitally, with rejuvenated colors as fresh and subtle as the day the pictures were shot. The work's wit and affection add buoyancy to scenes of America from a moment when the country was depressed by war and years of civil unrest. Its formal rigor makes an uncanny order out of images that, at first glance, look like no place or nothing. Look again. His show reminds us of a period when cutting-edge American art and the tradition of straight, documentary photography got together. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at West 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org; closes on Sunday. 
 (Michael Kimmelman) 
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'LET YOUR MOTTO BE RESISTANCE: AFRICAN-AMERICAN PORTRAITS' This show of photographic portraits is a praise-song in pictures, a shout-out to history. It's also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African-American History and Culture in Washington. It tends to be a little too fancy, a little too short on grit. Still, what a party it is, with a Who's Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X, and with Leontyne Price, Mahalia Jackson and the Supremes sharing a stage. (See above.) Closes on Sunday. (Cotter)
 SOL LEWITT: 'DRAWING SERIES ...' If the greatness of Sol LeWitt, the Minimal-Conceptual artist who died in April at 78, has so far escaped you, this exhilarating show of 14 of his mind-teasing, eye-filling wall drawings from the late 1960s and early '70s may do the trick. Selected and arranged by the artist, they proceed in carefully sequenced contrasts and echoes that are both insightful and idiosyncratic. Since their generating instructions are part of their titles, they reduce the creative process to a short, highly visible straight line. But their crisp geometries, accumulating marks and radiating patterns force us to mind the gap between artistic thought and artistic action, to experience the inability of language to account fully for visual outcome. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, diabeacon.org; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN DIASPORAN ARTS: 'THE FRENCH EVOLUTION: RACE, POLITICS & THE 2005 RIOTS' Alexis Peskine serves as an informed guide to recent events in France, although his position is somewhat complicated. Son of a Franco-Russian father (an architect) and an Afro-Brazilian mother, Mr. Peskine holds a bachelor of fine arts degree from Howard University and a master's from the Maryland Institute College of Art, which set him distinctly apart from the working-class youth in the banlieue, or suburb. His training as a graphic artist is evident in paintings that appropriate elements from comics, cartoons and food products, while his interest in hip-hop culminates in a music video titled ''Ripa'' (slang for Paris). Uneven at times, Mr. Peskine's work is ambitious and reflective. It also succeeds in showing us how in France's difficulties we feel echoes of our own. 80 Hanson Place, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0492, mocada.org; closes on Sunday. (Schwendener)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RICHARD SERRA SCULPTURE: 40 YEARS' This retrospective is a landmark by a titan of sculpture. At 67, Mr. Serra is still nudging the language of abstraction, constructing ever more awesome mazes of looming Cor-Ten steel. His ''Torqued Ellipses'' and ''Torqued Toruses'' and other recent works like ''Band'' and ''Sequence'' have their origins in pieces he did 40 years ago in rubber and lead, as this retrospective handsomely affirms, but these are nonetheless unprecedented variations on the theme of dumbfounding spirals and loops. These shapes and experiences are new. That's about the best, and the rarest, compliment you can give to any artist. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Kimmelman) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOHEI YOSHIYUKI/YOSSI MILO GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (78%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009



156 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-7
 Iraq Data Show Progress
 And Raise Vital Questions
 The most comprehensive military statistics on progress in Iraq show a reduction in attacks but raise questions over whether the drop can be sustained and what would happen if American troops withdrew. A1 
 Seven American soldiers were killed in two separate attacks, while Iraq's president said he would vote against carrying out the death sentence of a former defense minister, Gen. Sultan Hashim Ahmed. A6 
 In the first videotaped message by Osama bin Laden in three years, he compares the Iraq war to American blunders in Vietnam and criticizes the Democratic Party for failing to pull American troops from Iraq. A6 
 Lost Girl's Parents Suspected
 The British parents who turned their young daughter's disappearance from a Portuguese resort into an international cause celebre were formally named suspects by the Portuguese police. A5 Ex-Minister's Kin Is Sought
 A Pakistani court ordered the arrest of Shahbaz Sharif, left, the brother of the former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, as the two men planned to return to the country from exile. Their return was expected to be a catalyst in the campaign to oust Gen. Pervez Musharraf. A3 
 NATIONALA8-12 
 From Silent Opponent To Crusader on Gay Unions
 Mitt Romney , the former governor of Massachussetts and presidential candidate, has transformed himself into an ever more visible crusader against gay marriage as he has worked to reposition himself among conservatives. A1 
 Duke Prosecutor Is Jailed
 As Michael B. Nifong, the former prosecutor in the Duke lacrosse rape case, reported to jail in Durham, N.C., to serve 24 hours for criminal contempt, the three students he accused were in talks with the city for a settlement of $30 million and a package of law enforcement changes. A8 
 Fugitive Donor Is Hospitalized
 Norman Hsu, the Democratic fund-raiser whose 15-year fugitive odyssey began and ended with skipped court dates, was hospitalized under guard after falling ill on a train in Colorado, federal officials said. A10 
 Grim Outlook for Polar Bears
 Two-thirds of the world's polar bears will disappear by 2050, even under moderate projections for shrinking summer sea ice caused by greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, government scientists reported. A11 
 Diocese Settles Lawsuit
 The Roman Catholic Diocese of San Diego agreed to a settlement that would pay nearly $200 million to 144 people who said they were sexually abused by clergy members under lax supervision from the church. A8 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-5
 Inspection Regulation Unrealistic, Firemen Say
 A dozen senior New York City fire chiefs, company commanders and union officials say that enforcement of an inspection rule for buildings being constructed or torn down has long been inconsistent at best. The city is investigating compliance after the fatal Deutsche Bank building fire last month.A15 
 Con Ed Rate Increase
 Officials at the New York State Public Service Commission said Consolidated Edison should be allowed to raise the prices it charges for delivering electricity by 17.5 percent, an increase that critics believe would be the biggest in the utility company's history. A15 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-8 
 Recession Risk Rises
 The nation's job market took a serious and unexpected turn for the worse last month, raising the risk of a recession and putting added pressure on the Federal Reserve to move more aggressively to keep the ailing housing industry from infecting the rest of the economy.A1
 Lenders Cut Jobs Deeply
 Countrywide Financial said it planned to eliminate as many as 12,000 jobs in the biggest round of layoffs in the housing industry this year. The layoffs are the latest effects of a severe drop-off in new home loans, tighter lending conditions and rising borrower defaults and delinquencies. B1 
 EDITORIALA14-15
 Editorials: Denying children's health care; the employment tea leaves; once around the park; Verlyn Klinkenborg on quantum tennis at the U.S. Open.
 Columns: Bob Herbert and Gail Collins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); RELIGION (86%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); ARRESTS (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); LITIGATION (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); ARREST WARRANTS (69%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); CLIMATE CHANGE (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); MARINE MAMMALS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); GOVERNORS (56%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); GREENHOUSE GASES (50%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (50%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (50%); DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (56%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%); NAWAZ SHARIF (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); VIET NAM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



157 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Fighting an Outbreak of Mortgages Too Good to Be True

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Last week, the lawyers at a legal clinic in Brooklyn set the answering machine to stop taking new messages. So many people in Brooklyn and Queens are in trouble with mortgage bills that the lawyers cannot keep up. 
 ''That's the first time we've had to suspend taking on new clients,'' said Meghan Faux, co-director of the Foreclosure Prevention Project at South Brooklyn Legal Services. ''There's no way we could answer all those calls and provide proper representation to our clients.'' 
 Through this week, notices of pending legal action against homeowners are up by 48 percent in Queens and by 40 percent in Brooklyn over last year, according to the county clerks. Foreclosures in the city have doubled since 2005. 
 The subprime crisis that has knocked the financial markets began, at least in New York, as fliers taped to lampposts in Brooklyn and Queens over the last decade. These posters promised good deals on loans or home refinancing. Lending to low-income people at high rates became a thriving business. 
 Last year, Tilton Jack, a retired transit worker, opened the mailbox at his home on Cortelyou Road in Flatbush, Brooklyn, and found a leaflet advertising low-interest loans. He was soon visited by Michael Goltche of Golden First Mortgage, according to court papers, who told him that he qualified for a 1 percent mortgage.
 Too good to be true? 
 In fact, the rate was 1 percent -- but for one day. On the second day, it increased to 8.13 percent. Now, it is 8.77 percent. But those jumps are not what is sending his mortgage into a financial death spiral. 
 Under the terms, Mr. Jack's monthly payment is set as if the mortgage cost just 1 percent, even though it is much more. So the seemingly low rate is a trap: every month, the unpaid interest is being piled onto his principal. When it reaches 110 percent of the original loan, the payments will be adjusted to the full 8.77 percent -- on the principal that has been swollen by the unpaid interest. 
 ''The principal has been increasing ever since he got the loan, and his payments will go from $1,100 a month to over $3,000,'' said Navid Vazire, a lawyer with the Foreclosure Prevention Project who is representing Mr. Jack. 
 Mr. Jack, 82, had fallen into the grip of a maddeningly dense mortgage scheme known as ''payment option adjustable rate mortgage.'' 
 ''Nearly all our clients with these loans are elderly, on fixed income, so they have no prospect of making the dramatically higher payments,'' Mr. Vazire said.
 Feeling uneasy about the loan after the closing, Mr. Jack tried to exercise his right to cancel it within three days, according to court papers, but could not reach Mr. Goltche. A person who answered the phone yesterday at Golden First Mortgage, which is based in Melville, on Long Island, said Mr. Goltche no longer worked there and referred inquiries to a lawyer who did not respond to a message. 
 In early June, Nerida Cuccia of Queens Village said she got phone calls from people who claimed they could give her a mortgage at 2.25 percent for five years, and then 20 years at 5.5 percent. 
 Ms. Cuccia, who will be 61 tomorrow and retired in March as a nurse practitioner from the city hospital systems, said she was deeply skeptical. 
 ''But even if your gut tells you something's wrong, the percentages make you forget about the gut,'' she said. The loan was issued by Countrywide Financial, the lender that had come close to collapse. The closing took place at her home on 215th Place. She did not have a lawyer examine the papers. 
 ''They told me, don't worry about it,'' she said. ''I've refinanced before with just a notary.'' She said the papers she signed showed the promised rates, but when her first statement arrived, she found that the loan was for 8.25 percent. And like Mr. Jack's loan, her payments were set at a rate that meant she would lose ground every month. She is now being represented by the Foreclosure Prevention Project, which is considering a lawsuit. 
 The phone number of the brokers in Monroe, N.Y., who set up the Cuccia loan has been disconnected. 
 ''It mortified me, for sure,'' Ms. Cuccia said. ''I will handle this. It makes me sick to think of some little old lady getting stuck with this.'' 
 And the answering machine at the legal clinic will be turned back on next week, Ms. Faux said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



158 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Bill to Curb Suits by Patent Owners

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
The House approved the most sweeping changes to United States patent law in more than half a century on Friday in a victory for computer companies like Microsoft and finance companies like Goldman Sachs. 
 The legislation, approved 220 to 175, would make patents harder to obtain and easier to challenge and is intended to curtail litigation by limiting where patent owners can file suit and how much they can collect in damages.
 Approval came after last-minute changes to appease critics, including labor groups, universities, the Bush administration and the drug maker Pfizer, which said the original proposal went too far in weakening patent rights and might hurt investment in new technologies and cost American jobs.
 Even with the changes, the measure faced opposition from manufacturers, including Caterpillar, Eli Lilly and Procter & Gamble. Opponents said the measure favored certain industries over others.
 ''It is a horror story for American inventors and a windfall for thieves,'' said Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California. ''Foreign and domestic technology thieves are licking their chops.''
 Intense lobbying has surrounded the issue, reflecting the importance of patents to the American economy. Intellectual property in the United States, dominated by patents, is valued at as much as $5.5 trillion, more than 40 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, according to a 2005 study by USA for Innovation, a Washington group that advocates free trade. 
 Microsoft, Intel and Cisco Systems have been lobbying for changes for more than five years. They say they have been under siege from lawsuits seeking high royalties on small features.
 The companies are subjected to ''legalized extortion,'' said one sponsor of the measure, Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas. ''Too many patents of questionable integrity have been approved, and owners of these patents have found a unique way to make money.''
 The two chambers of Congress started with identical proposals in April, and the Senate version may come to a vote this year.
 The measure passed by the House would change the rules at the Patent and Trademark Office so patents would go to the first person to file an application, not necessarily the first inventor. That would limit years-long disputes over who was the first to invent new technology and would bring the United States in line with other countries' patent rules. It would also allow third parties to introduce evidence against applications and would create a system, called post-grant opposition, to challenge new patents.
 In litigation, it would limit where patent suits could be filed so that cases are not concentrated in court districts deemed favorable to plaintiffs, create a new way to calculate damages to reflect the contribution of the invention to the overall product and allow immediate appeals of court rulings on the interpretation of patent terms while cases are proceeding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (96%); PATENT LAW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); DAMAGES (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); EVIDENCE (60%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); ELI LILLY & CO (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); INTEL CORP (55%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFEB (BRU) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); LLY (SWX) (56%); LLY (NYSE) (56%); LEL (LSE) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: DANA ROHRABACHER (58%); LAMAR SMITH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



159 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Gaza Under Hamas: Quiet, Cut Off and Digging In

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: GAZA CITY, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Nearly three months after Hamas conquered the teeming streets of Gaza, a wary calm has taken hold. People stroll at all hours, car theft has practically stopped, even armed police officers are rarely seen. 
 After 18 months in which gun battles between Hamas and Fatah forces defined street life, Hamas has made it illegal to carry weapons in public or to fire them, even at weddings or funerals.
 Tamer al-Bagga, who manages a beachside cafe, said people now patronized his business until ''all hours of the night.'' In June, people were hiding at home, keeping their children on the floor to avoid bullets. ''Now we have security,'' he said. ''But with the closure, we have no money.''
 Because the Hamas charter calls for Israel's destruction and Hamas is classified by Israel, the United States and the European Union as a terrorist group, Israel, along with much of the world, is squeezing Gaza, allowing only goods classified as humanitarian or essential to enter and no exports at all to leave. So an already faltering economy is collapsing. 
 According to the Palestinian Businessmen Association, 75 percent of private factories and workshops have closed for lack of essential materials or spare parts, throwing 70,000 more people out of work.
 Stores are half stocked. Cigarettes and spare parts have become very expensive. There are electricity cuts of up to eight hours a day. Vegetables and fruit, with no possibility of export, are dirt cheap. ''We have the best-fed donkeys in the world,'' said Fahed Khalifa, 19, who owns one.
 With United Nationsfood aid, no one is starving, but Gaza is more isolated now than ever, cut off not only from the West Bank but also from the rest of the world. With the crossing into Egypt also closed, Gazans are finding it almost impossible to get Israeli permission to leave the territory, even temporarily.
 Hamas now has a near monopoly on weapons in Gaza, but its battle with Fatah, which largely controls the West Bank, continues. The fight is over personnel, the news media and even how to define the weekend, with Hamas sticking with the traditional Thursday and Friday, and the West Bank government insisting on Friday and Saturday. 
 While Hamas talks of restoring a unity government with Fatah, the rift appears to be deepening.
 Fatah is trying to regroup in Gaza, displaying its support by paying Palestinian Authority workers in Gaza but telling them to stay home. There have been a few isolated explosions and warnings of assassinations. But most visibly, Fatah has been organizing protests on Fridays, asking supporters to demonstrate by praying not in the mosques, but outside them, and then trying to provoke the Hamas police by chanting anti-Hamas slogans and throwing stones.
 Hamas seems confused about how to respond. Two senior Hamas officials, Mahmoud Zahar and Ahmed Youssef, said in separate interviews here this week that protests and free speech would not be punished, but that rock throwing and lawbreaking would. Asked if that meant that the outdoor prayers could continue unpunished, Mr. Youssef agreed. 
 Mr. Zahar, who has a tougher reputation and is more senior in Hamas, also agreed, but said praying outdoors violated religious laws.
 But the next day, Hamas issued a new decree, banning outdoor prayers. [On Friday, Fatah held an outdoor prayer rally anyway, and up to 30 people were hurt in clashes with the Hamas police, and three local journalists were briefly detained.]
 Hamas insists that it respects the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, of Fatah, and that Hamas will continue to rule here under the political program of the unity government negotiated under Saudi auspices in March and dismissed in June by Mr. Abbas. And Hamas has been careful in its language, talking of fighting American and Israeli agents and ''corrupted elements'' inside Fatah, but not Fatah itself.
 Even at the Soraya, the massive Palestinian security headquarters overrun in the June fighting, Hamas has been openly respectful, leaving the murals of Fatah heroes undisturbed on the outside walls.
 But Mr. Youssef also has a tough warning for Fatah and Mr. Abbas, who is also known as Abu Mazen. ''We could turn the tables on Abu Mazen in Ramallah if we wanted to, but we hope that in a few months we can talk together and solve our internal problems and find a solution on a new government,'' he said.
 He asked Mr. Abbas to lift a ban on Fatah politicians' in Gaza talking to Hamas, though he said some Fatah leaders in Ramallah regularly consulted with Hamas, ''trying to repair the damage and find a way to work together.''
 The Hamas threats to Fatah are real. The crackdown on Hamas in the West Bank, with Israel's help, is severe. But Fatah is largely unreformed, Mr. Abbas is reported by those close to him to be tired of the pressures of the job and not respected by many in Fatah, and the Palestinian security forces, even they admit, are still too weak to take responsibility over even quiet towns like Jericho from the Israelis.
 Even the jailed Fatah figure Marwan Barghouti, whom some see as an Abbas successor, warned that Fatah should quickly hold new internal elections and not underestimate the threat from Hamas in the West Bank.
 Mr. Zahar said that Hamas had corruption files on major Fatah figures, some of whom, he said, spied for the United States on Hamas and the Arab world, and that Hamas knew Fatah's plans for disruption in Gaza. 
 ''We're in contact with Ramallah, and we're watching them,'' he said. ''No one wants new chaos in Gaza, and we will arrest them at a proper time, to face a fair trial.''
 Mr. Youssef and Mr. Zahar are confident that Mr. Abbas's talks with Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel will go nowhere, that the Israelis are not prepared for serious concessions, and that failure will only help Hamas argue that its path of self-reliance and struggle is superior. 
 ''All the Middle East experts say these talks are a mirage,'' Mr. Youssef said. ''Abu Mazen can't bring us anywhere after he sold us Oslo for 15 years. If he acts as an enemy to Hamas, people see him as a friend of Israel. People don't like to see him hugging Olmert and nothing changes.''
 Mr. Zahar said: ''We've signed many agreements with Abu Mazen, and he's broken all of them. We don't trust him.''
 Palestinians here are tired. People are nervous about their salaries and livelihoods. People who work for the Palestinian Authority, and who are being paid by the government in Ramallah and ordered not to go to work, stay home. Some employees refuse even to greet Hamas friends on the street, lest Ramallah somehow hear about it and stop paying. 
 There is no longer a rush hour; taxis are idle.
 But the struggle continues, and no one expects Hamas to give up what it has gained here, or Israel and the West to suddenly open their arms and let Gaza breathe and Hamas take credit.
 People fear another major Israeli incursion, prompted by Palestinian rocket fire from Gaza into southern Israeli cities like Sderot. But Hamas still refuses to stop groups like Islamic Jihad or Fatah's Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades from firing the rockets. 
 Faysal G. Shawa, a construction engineer and Gaza City councilman, sees the situation as blocked and worsening. ''Every day we lose,'' he said. ''We lose our dignity and self-respect. Gaza is losing its best people, our smart people and our pioneers.''
 He has mothballed his own business because there are no new construction projects, given the increasing shortage of building supplies. ''I've decided to stay for now,'' he said. ''But after a few months more of this, I'll ask myself, stay for what?''
 Israel, the West and Fatah ''can't allow Hamas to succeed in Gaza,'' Mr. Shawa said. ''And we're suffering. And Hamas will stay, even if they have to fight the Palestinians living here. They'll be O.K., and we'll die.''
 Hamas Suppresses Fatah Protest
 JERUSALEM, Sept. 7 -- Hamas security forces moved Friday to prevent and disrupt outdoor prayers called as a protest by the Fatah movement for a third week running, and up to 30 Palestinians were wounded in clashes.
 The scenes were particularly vivid in the northern refugee camp of Jabaliya, where Hamas police officers tried to prevent Fatah supporters from gathering to pray outside.
 The police fired in the air, beat some protesters and made one arrest. Three journalists were briefly detained, and cameramen and photographers were warned about filming. Three Fatah leaders in Gaza were arrested for ''instigating riots,'' Hamas confirmed, but were released.
 After two weeks of outdoor prayer protests, Hamas banned them earlier in the week, almost ensuring a new clash on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); AL FATAH (89%); TERRORISM (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); STARVATION (72%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (53%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



160 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: The Employment Tea Leaves

 BODY:
In the bad-news-is-good-news world of Wall Street, a lot of investors had been hoping for a lukewarm employment report yesterday because job weakness would help to ensure an interest rate cut when the Federal Reserve meets later this month. But not even the most self-interested could celebrate the report's grim numbers. 
 Over all, employment contracted by 4,000 jobs in August, the first monthly decline in four years. The job-creation tallies for June and July were also revised downward, bringing average monthly job growth for the past three months to less than a third of what's needed simply to absorb new people entering the job market. 
 Suddenly, analysts are talking about a possible recession. And that's not good news for anybody.
 Wall Street may well get its rate cut -- the Fed will decide no later than Sept. 18. But the poor job numbers suggest that any bang a rate cut might give the financial markets would be muted by the apparent sharp slowing in the broader economy. Manufacturing and construction continued to lose jobs in August, a sadly common occurrence in today's economy. But job growth in the professional and business sector, which includes employees in legal, accounting and management services, has also been very weak. 
 If there is any good news here it is that hardship may be setting the stage -- in this pre-election year -- for a national discussion about what needs to be done to fix the economy and help the increasingly squeezed middle class. 
 The Republicans will almost certainly renew their calls for tax cuts on investments and multimillion-dollar estates, arguing that such cuts would pump up the economy. But lower taxes for the rich would not benefit the middle class and would only worsen the budget deficit. Republicans may also continue to champion financial deregulation as a way to juice the economy. But that led to the housing bubble -- and the current mortgage mess. 
 Democrats, or some Republicans with a change of heart, must articulate -- and Americans must demand -- a program for ensuring that the middle class gets a bigger share of the economy's spoils than it has received during the Bush era, when gains have largely been funneled to the richest Americans.
 To have a fairer and more inclusive economy, workers need true mobility, which requires health care reform. And they need to see a reversal in the country's ever-deepening inequality, which could come about through more progressive income taxes, better public education and more help for workers whose jobs are displaced by globalization. 
 A few more months like August would make a recession likely. That would presumably focus the nation on the need for new economic priorities. But the unacceptable costs of staying the course are already clear. The sooner the debate heats up, the better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); JOB CREATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (69%); TAX LAW (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); HOUSING BUBBLE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); INCOME TAX (63%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



161 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Not the Decade To Go Shopping With a Wallet Full of Stocks

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
SINCE this decade began, the United States has fought two wars, gone through one recession, endured the collapse of a bubble in technology stocks and is living through a crisis in subprime mortgages that is making it difficult for many people and companies to borrow money. 
 And the stock market has gone, well, nowhere. 
 The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks ended the 1990s at 1,469.25. It ended August at 1,473.99, a gain of three-tenths of 1 percent. 
 Looking at price movements by themselves can be misleading. To get a fuller picture, one should consider both the total return -- assuming dividends are reinvested -- and the corrosive effects of inflation. 
 As is shown in the accompanying chart, the simple price return so far in this decade is the worst since the 1930s, when the Great Depression occurred. But the inflation-adjusted figure for total return is actually worse than in the 1930s, when a combination of deflation and high dividends from those companies that survived the Depression bolstered returns. 
 But it is better than in the 1970s, when high inflation wiped out the apparent gains in share prices. On an inflation-adjusted basis, an investor in the S.& P. 500 is down 8.1 percent in this decade, or 1 percent a year, compared with a decline of 1.5 percent a year in the 1970s.
 The charts show the progression of stock market returns through the decade since the new century began -- big losses in 2001 and 2002, followed by recoveries.
 The inflation adjustment is based on the Consumer Price Index, which is a widely followed but imperfect measure of inflation. The other charts show how the stock market has fared during the decade measured against values of other things that most people buy -- and that have done very well in this decade.
 The first is wheat. At the end of 1999, wheat futures were trading at $2.48 a bushel. By the end of August, that price was up to $7.67, as demand from India helped to send prices to record highs. Even after adding all the dividends received since the end of 1999, stocks bought then are worth 63 percent fewer bushels of wheat than they were.
 A similar story is told in oil, where a barrel cost a bit over $25 as the 1990s ended, and nearly three times as much now. Measured in oil, stocks are down 61 percent. Gold has gone from under $300 an ounce to well over twice that figure. Measured in gold, stocks have lost half their value.
 The calculation for home prices is based on the government's report on the median price of new homes. That is an inexact figure at best, because it does not take into account the size of new homes or the proportion built in relatively high-cost areas. But by that measure, stocks are down 22 percent, despite the recent decline in home prices. Had other measures been used, like the S.& P./Case-Shiller index of home prices, the decline in stock values would have appeared greater.
 To some extent, the stock market woes reflect a case of ''what goes up must come down,'' or, in the terms preferred by statisticians, a ''reversion to mean.'' 
 Share prices outperformed oil, wheat, gold and home prices in both the 1980s and 1990s. And the rise of share prices in those decades left the prices at historically high valuations.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Standard & Poor's 500 has not kept up with inflation so far in the current decade, the first time that has happened since the 1970s. And its performance has been poor relative to the cost of some necessities -- wheat, oil and houses -- and to gold, a traditional measure of value. For example, an investor who cashed in 10 ounces of gold to buy stocks at the end of 1999 would be able to buy only 4.88 ounces of gold with the money from selling the stocks now.
Change figures are through end of August. Figures for Consumer Price Index and median price of new homes are not yet available for August, and chart assumes they were unchanged from July. Commodity prices based on monthly close of nearby futures contract.(Sources: Standard & Poor's
Bloomberg Financial Markets
Haver Analytics) Charts show 3 different graphs. The first is a set of three small bar graphs from the 1940-2000. The second shows a line graph from 2000-2007. The third shows a line graph of from 2000 to 2007.(Sources: Standard & Poor's
Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WHEAT MARKETS (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); INFLATION (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



162 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Advocates Rattling Sports' Cages

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Fans who are in town Saturday for Louisiana State's home opener against Virginia Tech can get a glimpse of L.S.U.'s latest recruits -- football players and a tiger mascot. 
 Mike VI, a 2-year-old Bengal-Siberian tiger who is expected to grow to 700 pounds, was acquired last month from an animal-rescue center in Indiana. 
 The tiger was placed on view last Saturday in a $2.9 million, 15,000-square-foot campus habitat equipped with a wading pool, a waterfall, scratching posts, air-conditioned sleeping quarters and around-the-clock care from the L.S.U. School of Veterinary Medicine.
 ''He probably gets better medical treatment than most of us,'' Sean O'Keefe, L.S.U.'s chancellor, said. ''He's one charmed cat.'' 
 That is a widely held view here, where football and a live tiger are seen as essential to the character of the state's flagship university. But not everyone agrees. The university and the state are on the skirmish lines of a growing fight waged by animal-rights groups, lawmakers and courts to bar the use of animals as live mascots, for staging fights or even in certain types of sporting equipment. Perhaps never before have animals been so prominent on the sports landscape. 
 When L.S.U.'s previous mascot died in May of kidney failure at age 17, representatives of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals asked the school not to get another live tiger. PETA argued that tigers need to roam over hundreds of miles, not square feet, and that wild animals become stressed in stadiums filled with tens of thousands of people. 
 Meanwhile, in June, Louisiana became the 50th state to ban cockfighting. In July, the California Supreme Court effectively prohibited the sale of soccer shoes made from kangaroo hides. And the National Basketball Association continues to experiment with synthetic materials for its basketballs. 
 Public sensitivity about the treatment of animals has been acutely evident in the past year, with the outpouring of grief after the death of the 2006 Kentucky Derby champion Barbaro and the national outrage aimed at the N.F.L. quarterback Michael Vick after he acknowledged his involvement in dogfighting.
 ''These are manifestations of increasing concern about well-being and the ethic that if you are going to use animals, there should be a compelling reason,'' said Wayne Pacelle, the chief executive of the Humane Society of the United States.
 Referring to cockfighting and dogfighting, he said: ''The idea that cruelty to animals is wrong has become a bedrock principle in American culture.''
 Twenty-five or 30 years ago, the news media and law enforcement officials might have looked the other way at an athlete involved in dogfighting, said Jay Coakley, an emeritus professor of sports sociology at the University of Colorado at Colorado Springs.
 ''The sheriff may not have made a bust, or may have tipped him off and given him chance to cover up his tracks,'' Coakley said.
 In 1992, Jackie Sherrill, then the football coach at Mississippi State, got off with an apology and a warning after he had a bull castrated to motivate his players for a game against Texas, whose mascot is a longhorn steer named Bevo.
 Public attitudes appear to have changed since then. Louisiana State Senator Arthur J. Lentini of Metairie, a New Orleans suburb, led the effort in Louisiana to ban cockfighting, in which roosters are fitted with spikes for slashing duels. Some Louisiana legislators said that cockfighting was a Cajun tradition and a rural economic lifeline. 
 Lentini said, ''I felt it was very detrimental to the image of this state to be the only remaining state that permitted this activity in which animals are hurt for the amusement and wagering of human beings.'' The ban takes effect in August 2008. 
 Last year, the soccer star David Beckham switched from soccer shoes made from kangaroo skin to a synthetic alternative after a campaign by animal-rights groups. In July, the California Supreme Court banned the sale of kangaroo-skin shoes in settling a lawsuit.
 Response to the court decision has been mixed. While animal-rights groups celebrated, officials in Australia protested, saying that kangaroos are no longer endangered and need to be culled for proper conservation. A bill that would permit products made from kangaroo hides is pending in the California Legislature.
 ''Consumers should not be intimidated by the scare tactics of extremists who have a long-term agenda of banning the use of nonendangered animal products,'' Warren Truss, Australia's trade minister, said in a statement after the court ruling.
 The Vick case, too, has come to be viewed by some in a more nuanced way. Vick, who has been suspended by the N.F.L. and faces a possible prison sentence, has been widely criticized. Yet some observers say that Vick has been subjected to greater outrage and punishment than players who have committed violence against people in shootings, incidents of domestic violence or fatal traffic accidents. 
 The L.S.U. case represents perhaps PETA's most visible attempt to dissuade universities from using live mascots. L.S.U. has kept live tigers since 1936. About three dozen schools keep live mascots. Others have discontinued the practice as being inhumane or too costly for appropriate care.
 Southeastern Louisiana University, located east of here in Hammond, once housed a live lion during football season in an arrangement with the Audubon Zoo of New Orleans. The arrangement ended in 1972 when the university, which lacks a veterinary school on campus, realized it could not provide suitable care, Christina Chapple, a Southeastern spokeswoman, said.
 ''Everybody was excited, then the reality of keeping a live animal on campus set in,'' Chapple said. ''We weren't set up to handle that.''
 When L.S.U.'s previous tiger mascot died, PETA sent a letter to the school saying that large carnivores ''suffer extremely'' in captivity because they are denied the opportunity to engage in natural behaviors such as running, climbing, hunting, establishing territory and choosing mates. Most universities and all major professional teams use costumed humans, not live animals, as mascots, PETA said.
 ''Keeping wild animals in captivity is cruel,'' Lisa Wathne, a PETA captive exotic animal specialist, said in an interview. ''As grandiose as Mike's expensive habitat may look, it is inadequate for a tiger. The whole idea of carting this animal to a sporting event with screaming people is stressful to any wild animal.''
 Previously, PETA and other animal-rights groups criticized the conditions in which Baylor University kept a pair of black bear mascots. In 2005, the university opened a $1 million upgraded habitat. That same year, the University of South Carolina ignored PETA's request that it stop using Gamecocks as a nickname, given that cockfighting is illegal in the state.
 Cockfighting is ''certainly not condoned by the university,'' Russ McKinney, a South Carolina spokesman, said in an e-mail message. He said the school had a strong connection to the term Gamecock, which was the nickname given to a leader of the state's resistance to the British during the Revolutionary War.
 In L.S.U.'s written response to PETA, O'Keefe, the chancellor, said that instead of being cruel and inhumane, the school's habitat was ''far better'' than most found in zoos. (At the Indiana rescue facility, Mike VI shared with four other tigers a 20-foot-by-30-foot outdoor cement enclosure and never saw grass, Dr. David G. Baker, the L.S.U. veterinarian who is the tiger's caretaker, said in an interview.)
 O'Keefe, noting that tigers were endangered, said that efforts to preserve the exotic cats ''will need to be conducted in captivity.'' The campus enclosure will allow Mike VI to roam, O'Keefe said, while keeping the animal safe from injury, poachers and infection. L.S.U. also plans to build an education center to inform the public about global conservation issues, he said.
 The tiger will not enter the football stadium for at least L.S.U.'s initial two home games, Baker said. First, it will attend soccer games in a portable cage to become acclimated to smaller crowds. When it does attend football games, the tiger will not be sedated or forced into its trailer, Baker said. And no one will be allowed to bang on the trailer or poke the animal in an attempt to make it roar, he said.
 The previous tiger mascot ''was obviously not stressed'' in the stadium, Baker said, seeming almost to fall asleep as it circled the field. The mascot always leaves the stadium before kickoff. 
 Referring to PETA officials, Baker said, ''According to them, humans don't have the moral authority to eat, own, exhibit or experiment upon animals. I don't share that religion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike VI, the L.S.U. Tigers' mascot, inside his $2.9 million habitat at the university. He was acquired from an Indiana rescue center.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ANIMAL WELFARE (89%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (89%); ETHICS (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ATHLETES (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); CATS (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); SOCCER (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); WILD CATS (57%); MAMMALS (57%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (54%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



163 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Unexpected Loss of Jobs Raises Risk of Recession

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The job market took a serious and unexpected turn for the worse last month, raising the risk of a recession and putting added pressure on the Federal Reserve to move more aggressively to keep the ailing housing industry from infecting the rest of the economy.
 The Labor Department reported yesterday that 4,000 jobs were lost from July to August, and the deepest cuts were in industries that are connected to the housing market, like construction and manufacturing. It was the first employment decline since 2003, when the job market was still struggling to emerge from the slump after the 2001 recession.
 The jobs report all but guarantees that the Fed will cut its benchmark short-term interest rate when its policy-making committee meets on Sept. 18. A quarter-point reduction, to 5 percent, remains the most likely move, although a half-point cut now cannot be ruled out, economists said. 
 The unexpected weakness in employment changed the terms of the debate over the health of the economy. Before the report was released, most economists were predicting that the economy had added about 100,000 jobs in August and that growth had slowed but continued. 
 But now, the odds of a recession in the next year have risen, to 25 to 50 percent, economists interviewed yesterday said. A recession is typically defined as an extended period in which the economy shrinks, leading to a rise in unemployment and a drop in consumer spending and business investment. 
 ''People need to start thinking about the housing market not just as some ring-fence problem which is off on its own,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight, an economic research firm in Lexington, Mass. ''They need to start worrying about the health of the broader economy.''
 Stocks fell broadly and sharply, as investors digested the idea that the economy had been weakening significantly even before the mortgage crisis hit financial markets last month. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down more than 1.5 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped almost 250 points. 
 The unemployment rate held steady at 4.6 percent in August, but economists said that was at least in part a fluke of the survey as more people stopped looking for work and were therefore not counted by the government as unemployed.
 ''If the economy is not headed toward recession, it is very close to one,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. 
 The Bush administration tried to defuse concerns that the weak jobs numbers hinted at a wider economic slowdown. In an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said the report was ''not totally surprising.''
 ''There will be news that is not always good news,'' he said. ''But I feel quite strongly that we have a resilient economy.''
 For months, Fed officials and Wall Street forecasters have been predicting that the housing slump would slow the economy and that other factors, like corporate earnings, growth in other countries and strong wage advances, would keep the slowdown from being severe.
 That could still happen; in the economic expansions of both the 1980s and the 1990s, employment fell at least once before quickly reversing course. 
 ''The financial turmoil and extended problems in housing put the risks for the economy clearly to the downside, no question,'' said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Bank of America. ''But there are also factors that suggest a longer period of slower growth, but not recession.'' 
 One of the most worrisome signs in the jobs report released yesterday was the government's revision to its employment data for June and July. The new numbers show just under 70,000 jobs being created in each of the two months. Initial estimates had been an average of almost 110,000 a month. 
 In 2005 and 2006, the average monthly job growth was slightly above 200,000.
 The sharp slowdown this year suggests that some employers have already begun to see a downturn in their business and that others think one is on the way. With house prices falling in most of the country and oil prices having risen, consumer spending has slowed modestly in recent months. 
 State and local government agencies, many of them dealing with budget shortfalls connected to the housing slump, have also cut an average of 27,000 jobs a month over the last three months. But economists said the declines in government employment, especially in schools, may have reflected seasonal quirks that made the job market look worse last month than it was. 
 Hospitals, doctors' offices, restaurants and retail stores added jobs in August.
 But the bright spots were few. Employment in the finance sector, which includes real estate agencies and accounts for about 8.5 million of the country's 138 million jobs, was flat in August, which could be a sign that the government numbers have not yet captured some of the mortgage-related job cuts now occurring.
 The surveys that made up the Labor Department report measured employment from Aug. 12 to Aug. 18, when the credit squeeze and subsequent stock market turmoil were under way but not yet fully felt. Since then, some large lenders like Lehman Brothers have continued to lay off workers.
 And just yesterday, two mortgage lenders, Countrywide Financial and IndyMac Bancorp, said they would shrink their work forces. Countrywide said it would cut as many as 12,000 jobs over the next three months, and IndyMac Bancorp said it would trim 1,000.
 ''There probably was not that much influence in the data from the credit shock,'' said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. ''So I think more weakness in the economy is likely. The economy is clearly losing momentum.''
 The extent to which that continues will determine the Fed's course of action. The price of a futures contract tied to Fed policy indicates that the central bank will probably cut the benchmark rate, now 5.25 percent, to 4.5 percent by the end of the year. But a growing number of economists are saying that may not be soon enough.
 Mr. Gault of Global Insight, who is forecasting a cut of half a point on Sept. 18, said it would send ''an important message that the Fed sees there are real problems here, there's a real threat, and it needs to have a response that's commensurate to that threat.''
 Although the unemployment rate held steady at 4.6 percent, the percentage of adults with jobs fell to 62.8, from 63 percent in July and a peak of 63.4 percent in December. The number of people who were neither working nor looking for work, and therefore were not classified as employed or unemployed, rose by almost 600,000 in August. 
 ''That's a sign of economic weakness,'' said Scott Anderson, a senior economist at Wells Fargo. ''Perhaps people just gave up trying to find jobs.''
 The number of people with part-time jobs who said they would prefer to work full time has also been rising in recent months. In August, the Labor Department classified 4.5 million workers as ''part time for economic reasons,'' up from 4.3 million in July.
 Wage growth, which often lags behind job growth, continued at roughly its recent pace. Average hourly earnings for rank-and-file workers, who make up about four-fifths of the work force, have increased 3.9 percent over the last year, to $17.50. Inflation has been running at about 2.5 percent a year.
 Wall Street had awaited the jobs report because it was the most significant economic data released since financial markets began to tumble in early August. If the jobs report had shown merely lackluster growth, investors might have welcomed it as a sign that a Fed rate cut was all but certain and that the economy was still growing at a healthy pace. 
 The reversal in employment, however, was far different from the gain of roughly 100,000 jobs that Wall Street had been expecting, raising worries that corporate profits and wage gains could weaken as the market upheaval moves beyond the housing and financial sectors.
 ''The big question on all of our minds is whether the financial market contagion would reach the labor market,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist with the liberal Economic Policy Institute. ''And it appears it has with a vengeance.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: ILL OMEN?: Employment shrank last month for the first time since 2003. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart showing the decline in employment numbers. (pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



164 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: With All the Top Jobs Covered, a Coach Drops Back

BYLINE: By LEE JENKINS

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Last season, Ron Rivera presided over the most opportunistic defense in the National Football League, steered it to the Super Bowl and was rewarded with six interviews for head coaching positions.
 Somehow, he came away with a demotion.
 This season, Rivera is coaching the inside linebackers for the San Diego Chargers, which may make him the most overqualified employee in the N.F.L.
 Seven months ago, Rivera was the defensive coordinator for the Chicago Bears, a team that went to the Super Bowl because of its defense. Now, Rivera is not even a full-fledged position coach. He is more like half a position coach. 
 Rivera does not oversee the Chargers' best linebackers, Shawne Merriman and Shaun Phillips, because they play on the outside. He spends most of his time with Matt Wilhelm and Stephen Cooper, who combined have started eight N.F.L. games.
 ''It's a surreal situation,'' Wilhelm said. ''This guy has coached in the Super Bowl. He's coached Pro Bowlers. And now he's coaching us.''
 Rivera, 45, has spent the last week preparing Wilhelm and Cooper to face Chicago in Sunday's opener. Many of the Chargers recently started watching tape of the Bears. But Wilhelm and Cooper have been studying the Bears' linebackers all summer.
 ''We watch Lance Briggs and Brian Urlacher run whatever blitz we are going to use that day,'' Wilhelm said. ''Seeing that tape, seeing the way they perform -- quarterback sack, quarterback hit -- you really buy into the point Coach is making.''
 Potential employers bought in, too. Last season, the Pittsburgh Steelers, the Miami Dolphins and the Dallas Cowboys were among those lining up to interview Rivera. 
 Rivera did not get those jobs, but he still had a soft place to land. He could just go back to Chicago, to the most vicious defense in the National Football Conference. Every year he spent with Urlacher and Briggs would surely raise his stock. A promotion was inevitable.
 Then, on Feb. 12, the Chargers fired Marty Schottenheimer, creating one more opening. As usual, Rivera got an interview. And, as usual, he did not get the job. But the stakes were higher this time. Rivera had nowhere to land.
 On Feb. 19, the day the Chargers announced they were hiring Norv Turner to be their head coach, the Bears announced they were not going to extend Rivera's contract, set to expire the next week. Rivera was momentarily unemployed.
 Generally, such fallouts are because of failed negotiations. But Lovie Smith, the Bears' coach, wanted to replace Rivera with his linebackers coach, Bob Babich. Asked about Rivera on Feb. 19, Smith told reporters, ''We're going in two different directions.''
 Because of the late date, Rivera did not know many teams that needed assistants and Turner did not know many assistants who needed jobs. They were a perfect match -- Turner the seemingly underqualified head coach, Rivera the seemingly overqualified assistant.
 Turner, with a 58-82-1 record as a coach, was a controversial choice from the beginning. Rivera was an obvious one. Hours after he learned that he missed out on the Chargers' head job -- and then learned that he had also lost the Bears' defensive coordinator job -- Rivera agreed to become the Chargers' inside-linebackers coach.
 ''It all worked out to our benefit,'' Turner said.
 In a sense, the Chargers hired two head coaches for the price of one. They got Turner's experience to go along with Rivera's enthusiasm. One could argue that Rivera should be giving some of San Diego's pregame pep talks this season.
 ''I was surprised he came here,'' Cooper said. ''I think we got really lucky.''
 Rivera is not cursing his fate, either. A longtime purveyor of the 4-3 defense, he interviewed with several teams last winter that wanted to run the 3-4. Recognizing a need to round out his resume, Rivera found a job with one of the best 3-4 defenses around.
 ''It's the opportunity to learn something different from what I've been associated with for the last 10 years of my coaching career,'' Rivera said. ''I'm getting to expand and grow a little bit as a coach and a position coach, a step that I'll be able to use eventually if I get to be a coordinator again.''
 Just as Rivera went from head coaching candidate to inside-linebackers coach in less than a year, he can easily go back again. The Chargers hail Rivera's ability to teach technique, especially when it comes to forcing turnovers. He pulls players aside on the field, talking to them one-on-one, making points without raising his voice.
 Rivera's poise will be tested Sunday. He spent his entire playing career with the Bears. He started his coaching career with the Bears. He is so close with the current Bears that he spent July 4 at Urlacher's house in Chicago.
 [This week, Rivera has declined interview requests, while the Bears and the Chargers have sniped at each other from afar. Urlacher has been at the center of the debate, mocking Merriman's sack dance and calling it stupid.]
 The Chargers, who were 13-3 last season and retained every player of significance, are a stylish pick for the Super Bowl. Even if their sack dances are silly, their tailback, tight end, offensive line and linebackers are all among the most respected in the league.
 Their one perceived weakness -- and they have heard this many times -- is their coaching staff. Just as Schottenheimer could not win in the playoffs, Turner has not won consistently in the regular season. Of course, if the Chargers acted faster last winter, they could have promoted one of their prized coordinators, Cam Cameron or Wade Phillips. But Cameron went to Miami, Phillips went to Dallas, and San Diego had to scramble to replace Schottenheimer.
 All things considered, the Chargers put together a pretty deep staff, exemplified by Rivera. He should make the Chargers more opportunistic on defense. And the Chargers should make him more viable in interviews next off-season.
 Shaun Phillips said: ''Coach Rivera believes that God has a different plan for him and maybe the plan is to come here and learn something different. The more he can do, the more valuable he will be as a coach. In the end, he's going to have it all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ron Rivera, the defensive coordinator for the N.F.C. champion Bears last season, is coaching the Chargers' inside linebackers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN DANIEL/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); CHICAGO BEARS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



165 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Warming May Wipe Out Most Polar Bears, Study Says

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and ANDREW C. REVKIN; John H. Broder reported from Washington, and Andrew C. Revkin from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Two-thirds of the world's polar bears will disappear by 2050, even under moderate projections for shrinking summer sea ice caused by greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, government scientists reported on Friday.
 The finding is part of a yearlong review of the effects of climate and ice changes on polar bears to help determine whether they should be protected under the Endangered Species Act. Scientists estimate the current polar bear population at 22,000.
 The report, which the United States Geological Survey released here, offers stark prospects for polar bears as the world grows warmer. 
 The scientists concluded that, while the bears were not likely to be driven to extinction, they would be largely relegated to the Arctic archipelago of Canada and spots off the northern Greenland coast, where summer sea ice tends to persist even in warm summers like this one, a shrinking that could be enough to reduce the bear population by two-thirds.
 The bears would disappear entirely from Alaska, the study said.
 ''As the sea ice goes, so goes the polar bear,'' said Steven Amstrup, lead biologist for the survey team.
 The report was released as President Bush was in Australia meeting with Asian leaders to try to agree on a strategy to address global warming. Mr. Bush will be host to major industrial nations in Washington this month to discuss the framework for a treaty on climate change.
 The United Nations plans to devote its general assembly in the fall to global warming.
 A spokeswoman for the White House declined to comment on the report, saying it was part of decision making at the Interior Department, parent of the survey. 
 In the report, the team said, ''Sea ice conditions would have to be substantially better than even the most conservative computer simulations of warming and sea ice'' to avoid the anticipated drop in bear population. 
 In a conference call with reporters, the scientists also said the momentum to a warmer world with less Arctic sea ice -- and fewer bears -- would be largely unavoidable at least for decades, no matter what happened with emissions of heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide.
 ''Despite any mitigation of greenhouse gases, we're going to see the same amount of energy in the system for 20, 30 or 40 years,'' said Mark Myers, the survey director. ''We would not expect to see any significant change in polar conditions regardless of mitigation.''
 In other words, even in the unlikely event that all the major economies were to agree to rapid and drastic reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases, the floating Arctic ice cap will continue to shrink at a rapid pace for the next 50 years, wiping out much of the bears' habitat.
 The report makes no recommendation on listing the bears as a threatened species or taking any action to slow ice cap damage. Such decisions are up to another Interior Department agency, the Fish and Wildlife Service, which enforces the Endangered Species Act. That decision is due in January, officials have said. The wildlife agency had to make a determination on the status of a threatened species because of a suit by environmental groups like Greenpeace and the Natural Resources Defense Council.
 In some places, the bears have adapted to eating a wide range of food like snow geese and garbage. But the survey team said their fate was 84 percent linked to the extent of sea ice.
 Separate studies of trends in Arctic sea ice by academic and government teams have solidified a picture of shrinking area in summers for decades to come. 
 A fresh analysis by scientists of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to be published Saturday in the journal Geophysical Research Letters, says sea-ice coverage of the Arctic Ocean will decline by more than 40 percent before the summer of 2050, compared with the average ice extent from 1979 to 1999.
 This summer the ice retreated much farther and faster than in any year since satellite tracking began in 1979, several Arctic research groups said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A polar bear on the Beaufort coast of Alaska. Federal scientists say Alaska could lose all its polar bears if summer sea ice shrinks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALASKA IMAGE LIBRARY/UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); GREENLAND (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



166 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Tumble as Job Report Leads Investors to Shift to Bonds

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Shares fell sharply yesterday and investors sought safety in government debt after a Labor Department report showed an abrupt drop in employment in August and raised fears of a recession.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down 1.7 percent, or 25 points, to 1,453.55, and the Dow Jones industrial average was down 249.97 points, or 1.9 percent, to 13,113.38. The Nasdaq composite index was down about 1.9 percent.
 Companies reduced their payrolls by 4,000 jobs in August, a sudden turnaround from the net increase of 68,000 jobs in July. 
 The government also revised down employment gains in June and July, suggesting that the economy may not have been as strong earlier this year as previously thought. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 4.6 percent, mainly as a result of a drop in the number of people looking for work.
 ''This number was a surprise, not a pleasant one,'' said Tobias Levkovich, chief equity strategist at Citigroup. ''Nobody predicted this or the revisions for the prior couple of months. This was not a good number, no ifs and buts about it.'' 
 But Mr. Levkovich cautioned that investors might have been drawing overly broad conclusions about the economy based on data for just one month.
 In a classic move away from risk, investors rushed into Treasuries yesterday. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction from the note's price, fell to its lowest level, at 4.37 percent, in more than a year and a half. On Thursday evening, the yield was 4.51 percent. 
 The price of the 10-year note rose 1 3/32 yesterday, to 103 1/32.
 For market specialists, the employment report, which showed big losses in manufacturing and construction jobs, virtually guaranteed a cut in the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate, now at 5.25 percent, at the next meeting of policy makers on Sept. 18. 
 The dollar fell against most major world currencies on anticipation of a rate cut and weakening economic conditions in the United States. The Japanese yen gained 1.7 percent against the dollar and the euro was up 0.57 percent. Gold, long considered a safe haven, was up 0.7 percent.
 The futures market yesterday afternoon was predicting that the Fed would cut rates by half a percentage point, to 4.75 percent, up from the quarter-point cut they were predicting on Thursday. Futures activity also showed that investors were expecting the rate to be cut to 4.5 percent by year-end.
 Wall Street and many housing industry officials have been clamoring for a rate cut for much of the year. Many investors were looking to the jobs report, the most significant economic data released since financial markets began to tumble in early August, to provide an impetus for a cut. 
 A lackluster jobs report would have spurred a cut while also offering some assurance that the overall economy was still growing. But the loss of jobs raised some concerns among investors that corporate profits and wage income will weaken as the market turmoil expands beyond the financial and housing sectors. 
 In recent days, Fed officials have suggested that they are poised to respond to the crisis in the credit markets that started in late July and escalated in August.
 But policy makers have clearly noted that they did not yet see broader problems in the economy as a result of the turmoil in the housing and credit markets.
 ''They have been trying everything at their disposal before going for what the market perceives as the magic bullet of a rate cut,'' said Douglas M. Peta, chief market strategist at J. W. Seligman & Company, an investment firm in New York. 
 Now that the latest data shows some weakness in the economy, the Fed will move ahead with a rate cut, Mr. Peta said. ''This is the last step providing them with cover to cut.'' 
 Over time, lower interest rates should ease borrowing costs for businesses and consumers, but in the nearer term, market specialists agree that a rate cut will not provide much of a lift to the economy. People who are having a tough time refinancing a mortgage or business executives who cannot sell bonds may remain locked out of the debt markets.
 For investors, the primary concern going forward will be how much consumers will cut back. Until now, they have continued to spend in spite of the trouble some are having with rising mortgage rates and falling home prices. But if the job market weakens significantly, that is likely to change.
 ''If people have jobs, they pay their bills,'' Mr. Peta said. The question, he said, is: ''Will weakness in employment lead to weakness in spending?''
 Spending by consumers, of course, drives corporate profits, which so far this year have defied expectations of a major slowdown. If other reports confirm the weak reading in yesterday's employment report, analysts are likely to reduce their expectations for profits, and stocks could suffer as a result.
 Wall Street expects that earnings will increase at an 11 percent to 12 percent pace in the fourth quarter, notes Robert C. Doll, vice chairman at BlackRock, the asset management company.
 He expects profits to grow somewhat slower than that, but he does not think that the economy will fall into a recession, which occurs when the gross domestic product shrinks for two consecutive quarters.
 The next few weeks will be important, because September is the busiest month for investor conferences held by public companies. So far, the tenor of such meetings has been reasonably positive, especially among technology and energy companies, Mr. Doll said, noting that it is considerably dimmer at financial services firms. 
 ''Generally, what we are hearing is reasonably good news,'' he said.
 September is also a month in which the markets have generally not fared well.
 Optimists believe exports and growth in technology, health care and energy will offset the impact of the credit markets to keep the economy and corporate profits growing.
 ''Certainly anything with a housing-related component has some severe job issues,'' said Mr. Levkovich of Citigroup. But the outlook is much better for ''metals and mining and energy, industrials, education and health care -- there are a lot of people employed in those industries.''
 Stocks on Wall Street, however, may move on news closer to home, he noted. 
 ''Wall Street has a tendency to do a little navel gazing,'' Mr. Levkovich said. ''It's no secret that there will be some head count reduction around Wall Street.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: TREASURY YIELDS
DOLLAR WHAT $1 BUYS
S.& P. 500-STOCK INDEX
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GOLD (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) (pg. C1)Charts shows stock activity.
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FUTURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); EURO (66%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (62%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



167 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Investment Firm Seeks to Shake Up Big British Bank

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Knight Vinke Asset Management, the investment firm with a track record of initiating change at large companies, has found its latest target in Europe's biggest bank, HSBC Holdings. 
 But Knight, which is based in New York and Monaco, has not specified what changes it would like to see at HSBC, whose shares have outperformed those of its British rivals so far this year.
 Many analysts and shareholders are confused about the timing and purpose of the demands. 
 ''Until they come out with exactly what they are worried about, it's hard to see what they're on about,'' said Ed Collins, a fund manager at New Star Asset Management in London, whose investments include HSBC shares.
 ''I trust the management,'' he said. ''They were among the first to identify and deal with subprime exposure, and if I invest in a bank, I'd like to see one with a good geographical spread, which HSBC has.''
 The chief executive of Knight Vinke, Eric Knight, wrote HSBC's board on Tuesday requesting ''a fundamental review of the group's strategy in consultation with shareholders.'' 
 About three months ago, Knight Vinke, which is backed by the California Public Employees' Retirement System, America's largest public pension fund, wrote a letter to Stephen Green, HSBC's executive chairman, raising ''important governance-related concerns.''
 The letter was followed by a meeting with HSBC's finance director, Douglas J. Flint. 
 HSBC was the focus of shareholder discontent this year when the bank had to set aside $:1.75 billion ($3.5 billion) for losses on subprime mortgages in the United States, which caused the first profit warning in the bank's recent history. 
 Shareholders have also complained that the investment banking business has struggled and have voiced some concern over Mr. Green's promotion to executive chairman from chief executive, a move widely seen in Britain to go against good corporate governance practice.
 There were also calls for the bank to sell businesses in developing countries and expand in faster-growing emerging markets.
 But some analysts said HSBC had started to address most of the issues. The bank so far has contained its subprime mortgage losses and in July reported first-half earnings that beat analysts' expectations. 
 This week, it agreed to take a controlling stake in the Korea Exchange Bank for $6.3 billion as part of its emerging markets expansion.
 As a lender to money markets, HSBC has liquidity and is on ''the right side of the fence'' in the current financial market crisis, said James Hudson, a banking analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in London.
 This led some analysts, including Mr. Hudson, to question the timing of the Knight Vinke approach. 
 ''You're attacking a bank at a time when factors are quite supportive of it,'' Mr. Hudson said.
 Richard Lindsay, a spokesman for HSBC in London, said that the bank valued the opinions of shareholders and was ''happy to have a dialogue'' with them, though he added that the bank had a ''clear and well-understood strategy.''
 HSBC shares fell 1.6 percent to $:8.73 in London on Friday.
 Martin Forrest, a spokesman for Knight Vinke, did not return calls or e-mail messages requesting comment.
 Previous battles by Knight Vinke include one last year in favor of a breakup of Suez, the French utility, and previous campaigns at VNU, a Dutch media company, and Electrabel, a Belgian utility.
 In 2004, together with other investors, Knight Vinke successfully forced Royal Dutch Shell to end its dual British-Dutch structure. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (88%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (84%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); PROFIT WARNINGS (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); NEW STAR ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP PLC (56%); KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (51%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (55%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); 004940 (KSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MONACO (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



168 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: A Drug Maker's Views of What Ails Health Care

BYLINE: By WILLIAM HOLSTEIN

 BODY:
Daniel L. Vasella, chief executive of Novartis, the $39 billion pharmaceutical giant based in Switzerland, says that even though Americans have made progress in curing some diseases, they face a major increase in obesity- and aging-related diseases. Mr. Vasella recently discussed these challenges and criticized the Food and Drug Administration in the United States for failing to act more quickly to approve new drugs. 
 Q.What do you think about America's efforts to reform its health care system? 
 A. The United States has an aging society. With increasing age, the frequency of certain diseases is increasing significantly. Take osteoporosis, heart disease, dementia, cancer. The other development is that the prevalence of obesity is continuing to increase. That is linked to a number of degenerative diseases. Of those, diabetes is the most important, with 21 million suffering from it. All of that has a consequence. 
 Health care costs have increased to 16 percent of gross domestic product. That creates enormous pressures on the system.
 Q.Is the United States becoming a less healthy society in some respects?
 A. Yes, in some aspects, less healthy. The most important aspects are lack of exercise and being overweight. Public health policies have worked in infant mortality and the reduction of smoking, but, unfortunately, those trends are overtaken by these other developments.
 Q.What should Americans be doing to fix the system?
 A. One aspect is better patient education and better nutrition. People continue to eat as they did during the times when they were working in the fields. That is a dramatic mistake. Secondly, we should look at how to give incentives to people to avoid disease-prone behaviors such as smoking, alcohol consumption and being overweight. 
 If you look into the health care system itself, at data management, information systems and information technology, it is not very progressive. There is no shared database. 
 The last point I would make is liabilities. In the health care system, for doctors, hospitals and pharmaceutical companies, you have huge liabilities that have lots of indirect costs, from insurance costs to the overtesting of patients. That costs over $100 billion a year.
 Q.Have you seen the Michael Moore movie ''Sicko''?
 A. No, unfortunately not. But I know he has great skill in mixing things which are true with things that are skewed or biased.
 Q.Is the pharmaceutical industry part of the cure or part of the problem?
 A. If you look at the mortality rates from hypertensive heart disease or stroke or gastrointestinal bleeding or cancer, in the past 40 years, these diseases have declined as the cause of mortality by 60 to 70 percent. Medicine has made huge progress and to a large part it's due to better pharmaceuticals.
 Having said that, the prices have increased significantly. People are starting to ask, ''Is it too expensive?'' There are, of course, internal costs which one has to take into account. We have invested 17 percent more, year after year, in the past six years for research and development. Externally, clinical studies have become longer and more difficult. And regulatory authorities, especially the F.D.A., have become extremely risk-averse, increasing the risks of research dramatically. That is all contributing to the cost of pharmaceuticals.
 Q.How bad is the Alzheimer's problem going to become?
 A. In the United States alone, we have an estimated five million patients. The costs are about $150 billion a year. With the aging of the population, and the strong link between senile dementia and Alzheimer's, the patients who will get it is increasing dramatically. By 2050 worldwide, it's estimated that the number of people with this disease will increase to 100 million.
 If you extrapolate that to the United States alone, the bill will be outrageous, aside from all the human misery. The human costs and monetary costs will be absolutely terrible. We need to invest more in research in the central nervous system. 
 I strongly, strongly believe in the benefits of pharmaceuticals but I have to acknowledge that the entire system is extremely costly even though pharmaceuticals only make up 10 to 20 percent of the overall costs. We also know that fixing the price of pharmaceuticals at a lower price, even if we would take away all profits from the industry, would be a drop in the sea and would not fix the problem. 
 Q.When Americans aren't complaining about the price of drugs, they worry that the pipeline for new drug discovery has dried up. Is that right?
 A. I don't think it's accurate to say we have a drying up of the pipeline. The problem is that productivity has gone down significantly. If you look at the pipelines of companies and add up the number of products in development, it is quite high. The problem is that it takes longer and is much more costly; dollars spent per compound have increased dramatically. But the potential has not declined. With the unraveling of the human genome, within 10 or 15 years, we will see new products thanks to the new insights. There is a gestation period from the time we have science and logic until we have a drug. Unfortunately, the F.D.A. has become extremely risk-averse.
 Q.Has moving your headquarters for research to Cambridge, Mass., from Europe five years ago been successful?
 A. Five years later, we have more molecular entities than most other pharmaceutical companies and we have increased the percentage of biologics in our pipeline to 25 percent. The reason why it was the right move has been basically talent. We were able to attract a completely new level of scientists than we were able to do before. Being in Cambridge also made it much easier to attract talent because people like to be in places where lots of things are happening. In innovation, you need to be able to retain top talent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel L. Vasella 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); OBESITY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CANCER (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); DEMENTIA (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ELDER HEALTH (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); AGING (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); SMOKING (75%); DIABETES (73%); OSTEOPOROSIS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); STROKES (70%); HYPERTENSION (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); INFANT MORTALITY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (53%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (91%); NOVN (SWX) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



169 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Countrywide Plans to Cut Staff Deeply

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest mortgage lender, said late yesterday that it would eliminate as many as 12,000 jobs, which would be the biggest round of layoffs in the troubled housing industry.
 Countrywide, based in Calabasas, Calif., said 10,000 to 12,000 jobs, or as many as 20 percent of its 60,000 workers, could be eliminated over the next three months as it contends with a severe drop in new home loans, tighter lending conditions and a rise of borrower defaults and delinquencies. 
 Most of the layoffs will be of workers who approve and underwrite mortgages. Others will be in back-office operations. The company's banking, insurance and servicing divisions will be unaffected. 
 Analysts said, however, that more job cuts are possible.
 Countrywide's announcement came after the close of the stock market, which dropped 1.9 percent on news of a government report that the economy had shed 4,000 jobs in August, which raised fears of a recession. The deepest cuts, the report suggested, were borne by industries with strong ties to housing, including construction and manufacturing. Those figures do not include projected layoffs, like announcements made by Countrywide and other lenders.
 Yesterday, IndyMac Bancorp, the second-biggest home lender, said it would be eliminating about 1,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its work force, over the next several months. Two other lenders, the National City Corporation and Lehman Brothers, also announced layoffs this week, bringing the weekly total to more than 15,000 job cuts .
 The latest cuts are on top of nearly 31,000 layoffs reported by financial services companies in August, according to a rough analysis of news reports tracked by Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the recruiting firm in Chicago. About 86 percent of those jobs came from the mortgage sector.
 ''Countrywide is following what a bunch of mortgage players are having to do,'' said Guy Cecala, the publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance. ''It is not just downsizing to reflect the decline in current mortgage volumes, but it is downsizing to reflect the new realities of the mortgage market.'' 
 Countrywide had been riding high as one of the most aggressive lenders during the housing boom. Under Angelo R. Mozilo, its founder and chief executive, it became a $500 billion mortgage machine with nearly 900 offices across the nation. 
 Countrywide's share price was up 561 percent over the 10 years ended last December. And its vast business, with prime as well as subprime borrowers, made it something of a proxy for the health of the American housing market.
 In April, as other mortgage lenders began to experience problems, Mr. Mozilo said the company would benefit from the weeding out of weak rivals, including many that had irresponsible lending practices.
 But recently, Countrywide itself has been struggling. Defaults and delinquencies by homeowners are on the rise, especially for adjustable-rate loans to subprime borrowers, whose credit histories are blemished. Investor appetite for buying nonconventional mortgages in the secondary market, the foundation of Countrywide's business, has all but dried up. 
 In late August, Countrywide was shut out of the market for short-term debt by an expanding credit crisis. It was forced to tap its $11.5 billion credit line to maintain liquidity. And until Bank of America stepped in to buy a $2 billion stake, Countrywide's ability to remain a going concern was in question.
 As part of its agreement, Bank of America can convert its preferred shares into common stock at $18 each. 
 Yesterday, Countrywide shares closed at $18.21, down 27 cents, though they rose as high as $18.40 in after-hours trading. Countrywide shares are down 57.1 percent this year. 
 Countrywide has long hired and shed workers according to the boom-and-bust cycle of the housing market, but this was its first announcement of a major staff reduction. 
 Over the summer, Countrywide had been hiring loan officers and other employees from rivals like New Century Financial that closed their doors. Only in the past month did it announce that about 1,400 workers would lose their jobs. That figure is included in the 12,000 announced yesterday.
 ''These decisions are being made with the utmost attention and sensitivity to the impact they will have on our company and our people,'' Countrywide's president and chief operating officer, David Sambol, said yesterday in a statement.
 In its statement, Countrywide said that it expected new mortgages in the overall housing market to decline about 25 percent in 2008. And the company, the statement noted, will all but shut down its business writing subprime loans. Instead, it will move aggressively into conventional home loans that are easily digested by buyers like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the secondary market.
 Given that only about half of Countrywide's volume during the first half of 2007 came from issuing conventional mortgages, Mr. Cecala of Inside Mortgage Finance said, Countrywide's decline is likely to be even steeper than that of the sector as a whole.
 ''They are looking at closer to a 40 or 50 percent drop rather than a 25 percent drop,'' he said. 
 ''I would guess that 12,000 is not going to be enough. It is possible they would lay off 20,000 employees,'' Mr. Cecala added. ''You don't need 60,000 employees with a plain-vanilla conforming mortgage operation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The planned cuts at Countrywide are on top of nearly 31,000 layoffs reported by financial services companies in August. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); CHRISTMAS (63%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ONEWEST BANK FSB (68%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (66%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (53%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (68%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



170 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: At North Korea's Behest, Group to Inspect Nuclear Sites

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Tim Johnson contributed reporting from Sydney, Choe Sang-hun from Seoul and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
At the invitation of North Korea, an international delegation of nuclear experts from Russia, China and the United States will travel to the North next week to inspect nuclear sites that are to be shut down, the chief American envoy to the country said here on Friday.
 The announcement, by Assistant Secretary of State Christopher R. Hill, came on a day when the North's nuclear ambitions dominated the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum here, creating an awkward and testy exchange between President Bush and President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea over what would seem like a historical anachronism, the lack of a peace treaty ending the Korean War. 
 With Mr. Roh scheduled to go to Pyongyang to meet his North Korean counterpart, Kim Jong-il, next month, the South Korean leader used his photo opportunity with the president to make a public issue of the peace accord. With television cameras rolling, and Mr. Bush by his side, Mr. Roh publicly pressed the American president to declare a formal end to the hostilities -- something Mr. Bush has said he will not do until the North has completely scrapped its nuclear program.
 ''I said it's up to Kim Jong-il,'' Mr. Bush said, looking irked, ''as to whether or not we're able to sign a peace treaty to end the Korean War. He's got to get rid of his weapons in a verifiable fashion. And we're making progress toward that goal. It's up to him.''
 Officials said the inspections are an important step. Mr. Hill told reporters that the North, which has agreed to dismantle its nuclear facilities in return for economic aid, proposed the inspections in talks with the United States last week in Geneva. 
 But Mr. Hill did not disclose the plan until Friday evening in Sydney, after American officials had secured the approval of the other nations in the so-called six-party talks, the discussions aimed at ending the North's nuclear program. Five of the six nations -- South Korea, China, Russia, Japan and the United States -- are represented here.
 Mr. Hill said the North had proposed several methods of disabling its plants; the experts will spend four days examining the ''scope and the technical feasibility'' of those plans. But there was no suggestion that the inspectors would be permitted to examine the North's existing weapons caches and stores of plutonium. 
 They will report back to the six parties, who reconvene in mid-September, Mr. Hill said. The administration is hoping the North's entire program will be dismantled by Dec. 31.
 ''This was an idea the North Koreans came up with,'' Mr. Hill said in announcing the inspections. ''I think it is a sign that this current phase of disabling is an ambitious phase. We have a lot of work to do, and I think it's a sign of seriousness of purpose.''
 Signing a peace treaty to replace the 1953 armistice that ended the Korean War has been a key demand from North Korea in the talks. The United States was not a direct signatory to the armistice, which was put forth by the United Nations. But the North has insisted that it was developing nuclear weapons because of military threats from the United States, and that it would find no use for them once peace and its regime's survival were guaranteed. 
 South Korea, meanwhile, believes that an official cessation of hostilities would pave the way for a warming of relations between the South and the North. So when the two leaders emerged for a brief media appearance after their meeting, Mr. Roh pressed Mr. Bush.
 ''I think I might be wrong -- I might be wrong -- I think I did not hear President Bush mention the -- a declaration to end the Korean War just now,'' Mr. Roh said. ''Did you say so, President Bush?''
 After Mr. Bush told Mr. Roh it was up to the North Korean leader, Mr. Roh, apparently not satisfied, pressed again.
 ''If you could be a little bit clearer in your message,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush cut him off. ''I can't make it any more clear,'' Mr. Bush said, ending the exchange with a very terse, ''Thank you.''
 This is not the first time Mr. Bush and Mr. Roh have clashed over North Korea policy; when the United States moved to shut down financial transactions through a Macau bank used by the North Koreans, Mr. Roh publicly protested. Mr. Roh had also promised Mr. Bush at the White House that if North Korea tested nuclear weapons, there would be a severe reaction from the South. But there was not.
 Even so, American officials chalked the Sydney exchange up to a translation problem, and dismissed any speculation of tension between the two men. 
 ''I can tell you that they had a very warm meeting,'' said Dana Perino, the deputy White House press secretary. 
 Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at Sejong Institute in South Korea, said the exchange reflected both North-South politics and United States-Korea relations. By pressing Mr. Bush to clarify his position before journalists, Mr. Roh was trying to put pressure on Washington -- a move that could help him at home, because many South Koreans feel the United States has not been aggressive enough in starting a Korea peace process.
 ''Roh was likely trying to emphasize South Korea's mediating role, to highlight his diplomatic achievement,'' Mr. Cheong said. 
 Deal to Sell Uranium
 SYDNEY, Australia, Sept. 7 -- Australia will sell uranium to Russia to further President Vladimir V. Putin's plan to double the size of his country's nuclear power industry, according to a deal signed here on Friday. 
 Mr. Putin and Prime Minister John Howard of Australia, who signed the deal on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum summit meeting in Sydney, sought to play down fears that the uranium could be used for military purposes or sold to other parties. Russia is helping Iran build its first nuclear plant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); APPROVALS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%); KIM JONG IL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (67%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (53%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



171 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: State Takes Aim at Evaders of Wage and Tax Laws

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer announced the creation yesterday of an interagency task force to step up action against companies that wrongly classify employees as independent contractors to skirt wage and tax laws. 
 Under an executive order he signed yesterday, state agencies will cooperate more closely in ferreting out cases of misclassification, and if one agency, like the tax department, finds that a company is misclassifying its workers, it is supposed to share that information with other departments, like the State Workers' Compensation Board. 
 Independent contractors are usually individuals who are in business for themselves and use their own equipment or tools, while employees usually work for employers that supervise them closely, directing when and where they work. Until now, state officials said, when a state agency found that a company was misclassifying workers, it often did not inform other relevant agencies. Mr. Spitzer noted that companies often misclassify workers as independent contractors to avoid paying workers' compensation premiums, unemployment insurance and Social Security taxes, as well as time and a half to employees who work overtime. State officials said companies that misclassify employees put those that follow the regulations at a competitive disadvantage. 
 ''For too long, state government has turned a blind eye on a growing epidemic that is keeping wages and benefits artificially low for working New Yorkers,'' Mr. Spitzer said.
 State officials pointed to a study by the Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations that estimated that 10 percent of workers in many industries in the state were misclassified as independents.
 Patricia Smith, the state labor commissioner, said state agencies will undertake enforcement action against particular industries, like construction, where misclassification is prevalent. Denis M. Hughes, president of the New York StateA.F.L.-C.I.O., said, ''Today's executive order will go a long way toward eliminating the opportunity for unscrupulous employers to deny working men and women their statutory rights to fair pay, benefits and protections.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); OVERTIME (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



172 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 806 words

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
DELTA RAISES FARES Delta Air Lines, the third-largest carrier in the United States, raised fares on most domestic round trips by $10, citing higher costs. Other airlines did not immediately join in the move. Delta's increase follows a 10 percent rise in the price of jet fuel for immediate delivery in New York Harbor in the last month. Southwest Airlines raised round-trip fares as much as $20 on Aug. 31, prompting higher charges by seven other carriers including Delta.
 ''Fare increases reflect increased costs and fuel plays a big role in our business,'' said Betsy Talton, a spokeswoman for Delta, based in Atlanta. Fuel and labor are the top two expenses for airlines. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) 
 BREAKUP FEE IN DOW JONES DEAL Dow Jones & Company must pay Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation $165 million if either company decides to terminate their $5.2 billion merger agreement. The breakup fee was revealed in a regulatory filing by Dow Jones, publisher of The Wall Street Journal. The company also said bankers held talks with 21 potential buyers and that it never got a bid to compete with Murdoch's $60-a-share offer.
 The filing was made in connection with shareholder meetings to complete News Corporation's acquisition of Dow Jones. The sale is expected to close this year.
 Dow Jones must pay the fee if it terminates the merger to accept a better proposal or if shareholders reject the deal, according to the filing. Dow Jones must also pay as much as $25 million in expenses if either company terminates the agreement, the company said. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 TXU BUYOUT IS APPROVED 
 Shareholders of TXU approved a $32 billion buyout, putting the Texas power company in the hands of private equity firms. The transaction was approved by 74 percent of the company's outstanding shares. TXU agreed earlier this year to be bought by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and TPG Capital for $69.25 a share in the second-largest leveraged buyout ever. 
 The vote ratchets up the pressure on the group of banks that agreed to provide more than $37 billion in debt financing for the deal. The dismal state of the credit markets has made it far more difficult to sell that debt to other investors. (REUTERS)
 LOSS FOR CLOTHING MAKER Shares of Kellwood, the maker of Calvin Klein, Phat Farm and Nautica clothes, fell more than 7 percent to close at $17.58, after reporting a second-quarter loss and cutting its full-year profit forecast. Kellwood said in a statement that profit for the year would not exceed $1.40 a share, excluding some costs and gains, down from as much as $1.89 forecast in June. The company, which also makes Liz Claiborne dresses and suits, is slimming its women's sportswear business to three divisions from seven and refocusing the Phat Farm brand on licensing. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 HARLEY-DAVIDSON'S FORECAST Harley-Davidson, the motorcycle maker, sharply cut its forecast for profit and shipments to dealers after sales in the United States decreased last month. Its shares fell more than 9 percent on the New York Stock Exchange, closing at $49.09, the biggest drop in more than two years. 
 Per-share earnings will decline 4 percent to 6 percent this year, the first drop in 14 years, and there may be a ''modest'' fall in revenue, the company said in a statement. The outlook trails analysts' estimates by as much as 10 percent. The company said next year ''will continue to be challenging'' because of a sluggish domestic economy. Harley said it expects to ship 86,000 to 88,000 motorcycles in the third quarter, compared with a previous forecast of as many as 95,000. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) 
 GUILTY PLEA IN INVESTOR FRAUD Howard Schneider, the founder of the Gateway Capital investment fund, who was accused of stealing $13 million from investors, pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud. Mr. Schneider, 63, of Los Angeles, entered his guilty plea in federal court in New York. He faces a prison term of as much as six and a half years and must pay a fine of $250,000, said Michael Levy, assistant United States attorney in Manhattan. Prosecutors charged that Mr. Schneider, as part of a fraud scheme that began in 1997 and continued until 2006, solicited as much as $19 million from investors, claiming the money would be invested in various businesses. Mr. Schneider spent the money on cars, leases and a down payment on a home as well as on personal investment trades, according to prosecutors. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 PENNSYLVANIA BANK DEALNational Penn Bancshares said that it was buying KNBT Bancorp, a thrift about half its size, for $464.6 million in stock. National Penn, which operates 81 banks in Pennsylvania and one in Maryland, said the combination would help both companies fend off competition. KNBT owns Keystone Nazareth Bank and Trust, which has 56 branches in Pennsylvania. (AP) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); MERGERS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); JET FUEL (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (74%); GARMENT WORKERS (74%); ACQUISITIONS (73%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); APPAREL MFG (64%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (64%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); DEBT FINANCING (63%)

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (93%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); NEWS CORP (92%); KKR & CO LP (64%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (59%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); TPG CAPITAL LP (53%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%); KKR (NYSE) (64%); LUV (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (59%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



173 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: As New Jersey Democrats Meet, Corruption Arrests Steal Spotlight

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton wowed the crowd. So did Gov. Jon S. Corzine. And there to cheer them on, relishing every partisan barb aimed at President Bush's policies on Iraq, the economy and health care, were about 1,000 of the state's most ardent Democrats.
 But the person who all but upstaged the state Democratic Party's annual convention here was a Republican who was 117 miles away in Newark: the United States attorney, Christopher J. Christie, whose office announced on Thursday the arrests of 11 current or former public officials -- including two Democratic assemblymen -- and another man accused of accepting thousands of dollars in bribes. 
 By Friday afternoon, Governor Corzine, as well as the Senate president, Richard J. Codey; the Assembly speaker, Joseph J. Roberts Jr.; and the state Democratic chairman, Joseph P. Cryan, had called on the two legislators to resign. Several high-ranking Democrats, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly, said that they expected the two -- Assemblyman Mims Hackett Jr., who is also the mayor of Orange, and Assemblyman Alfred E. Steele, a Passaic County undersheriff -- to step down within days.
 Democrats who had read all 44 pages of the supporting material accompanying the criminal complaints said they were shocked and disgusted by the accusations of cash payouts and expletive-filled boasts about vote-rigging.
 ''Unfortunately, it's become the focus of the convention, and it's a very sad day for the Democratic Party,'' said State Senator Stephen M. Sweeney, a Democrat from Gloucester County. ''How dare these Democrats cast a cloud over the entire Democratic Party? Is your name worth $5,000? People will talk about the corrupt Democratic Party, and you know what? That's fair game.''
 To the embarrassment and astonishment of Democrats gathered in this resort, this was the second consecutive year that Mr. Christie had managed to hog the stage in absentia. 
 Last year, just as the convention was getting under way, Mr. Christie's office subpoenaed the records of a nonprofit community agency in Hudson County that had paid more than $300,000 in rent to United States Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat, while also getting millions of dollars in federal grants with Mr. Menendez's help. At the time, Mr. Menendez was locked in a close race with his Republican opponent, State Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr., and Democrats contended that the release of the subpoenas so close to the election was politically motivated. 
 Could Mr. Christie's timing be mere coincidence two years in a row?
 Yes, said most Democrats interviewed here on Friday. Hardly any Democrat was accusing Mr. Christie of playing politics. Instead, many praised him and the Federal Bureau of Investigation agents who worked on the 18-month investigation. 
 Mr. Codey may have set the tone in a speech at a breakfast that was talked about all day.
 Saying that Democrats should ''look at ourselves and ask, 'Are we doing the right thing?' '' he went on: ''These questions about whether the U.S. attorney is too political, that's not the question. He didn't put a gun to anyone's head and force them to put their hand in the cookie jar. Our criticism should never be directed at law enforcement officers who are doing their jobs.''
 And Mr. Roberts said that he was prepared to consider new measures to strengthen ethics legislation that was signed on Tuesday by Mr. Corzine -- perhaps not immediately in a special session, as Republicans demanded on Friday, but soon.
 Then the boss weighed in.
 ''I think it's perfectly appropriate if the professional judgment is now is the appropriate time to bring the indictments,'' Mr. Corzine said. ''I don't have criticism of that. I think it's a different situation from last year.''
 Not surprisingly, there were some Democrats who questioned the motivation, or at least the timing, of Mr. Christie, who headed George W. Bush's first presidential campaign in New Jersey and who is widely expected to run for governor in 2009.
 Assemblyman William D. Payne, a Democrat from Essex County who is running for the State Senate as an independent, noted that the arrests were merely accusations, that the people charged should be presumed innocent, and that ''people suspect the timing.''
 Some Democrats tried to make the best of the situation with humorous one-liners that have been heard before in New Jersey. A few remarked about not wearing wires, or carrying videotapes.
 Others joked about how, given the current pace of accusations coming out of the United States attorney's office, the 120-member Legislature might not have a quorum when it returns in November for a lame-duck session. 
 State Senator Sharpe James, the former mayor of Newark, and State Senator Wayne R. Bryant, of Camden County, are awaiting trial on corruption charges, and several other lawmakers have been subpoenaed as part of a reported investigation into special legislative grants.
 One person on Friday drew particular attention. With some whispering, ''Look who's here,'' Democrats noticed State Senator Joseph Coniglio, from Bergen County, as if he were an uncle who had been invited out of obligation, but whose presence was not exactly embraced.
 Mr. Coniglio has been notified by Mr. Christie that he could soon face corruption charges.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 13, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the New Jersey Democratic Convention, dominated this year by reaction to last week's arrest of 11 current or former public officials on corruption charges, misspelled the surname of the state Democratic chairman in some copies. He is Joseph Cryan, not Cyran.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, with Gov. Jon S. Corzine, spoke to New Jersey Democrats in Atlantic City yesterday.
 Christopher J. Christie, center, the United States attorney for New Jersey, announced the arrests of 12 men on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); BRIBERY (74%); ELECTION FRAUD (74%); SUBPOENAS (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); JON CORZINE (90%); BOB MENENDEZ (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



174 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Bad News Puts Political Glare Onto Economy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Susan Saulny contributed reporting from Sioux City, Iowa, and Karen James from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
For the first time in four years, economic concerns are rivaling the war in Iraq as a top issue on the political agenda.
 Sensing new political momentum, Democrats in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail are stepping up their criticism of President Bush's handling of the economy and offering their own proposals. 
 And now that the malaise in housing and credit markets appears to be infecting the wider economy, the Federal Reserve could feel more pressure from Democrats and Republicans alike than it has since Alan Greenspan, then the Fed chairman, incurred the wrath of President George H. W. Bush for not cutting rates faster in the early 1990s. 
 The Fed is all but certain to reduce interest rates at its next policy meeting on Sept. 18, but the big debate among economists is how much further and faster it cuts rates after that. 
 The Bush administration, on the defensive, rushed out with a message of calm reassurance, as a phalanx of top officials insisted that the economy remained poised for growth despite a government report that seemed to show that the broader economy is suffering from the mortgage meltdown.
 ''We're still confident that we're going to see high growth for next year,'' said Edward P. Lazear, chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. 
 And Carlos M. Gutierrez, secretary of commerce, warned that the prospect of tax increases would merely increase economic uncertainty.
 On Friday, a top House Democrat announced his intention to push for a sweeping revision of President Bush's tax cuts that would favor middle-income families at the expense of the rich.
 ''It will be the mother of all tax reforms,'' vowed Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
 Other Democrats are criticizing President Bush's economic policies and pushing for more help for low-income people who face foreclosures after buying their houses with subprime mortgages, an expansion of government-financed health care and more money for education.
 But perhaps the most important participant in the drama -- the Federal Reserve -- remained silent on Friday and will probably continue to say nothing until its next policy meeting in 11 days.
 Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, has signaled his readiness to reduce a key interest rate, the overnight rate for loans between banks, if the turmoil in the mortgage markets threatens to derail economic growth.
 But Fed officials still have lingering worries about the risk of rising inflation, and they do not want the central bank to be seen as rescuing investors and lenders from bad bets on mortgage-backed securities. 
 Typically, the Fed raises interest rates to ward off inflation when the economy is growing fast and in danger of overheating, and lowers rates when the economy is slackening. 
 Fed officials and politicians alike know that decisions about monetary policy right now are likely to affect the broader economy about the time of the presidential elections in November 2008, because changes in interest rates usually take effect after a lag of 12 to 18 months.
 But the political repercussions could be greater than in many years. For the last decade, the Fed has given politicians little to criticize: it has either spurred faster growth with low interest rates or raised rates modestly amid fast growth and low unemployment.
 Now the central bank is in a less comfortable position. Even as Wall Street analysts ratchet up their worries about a recession, Fed officials are far from convinced that a true downturn is likely. At the same time, many officials still have lingering worries about higher inflation. 
 Republican and Democratic presidential candidates all jumped on the weak job numbers to make political points. 
 ''It does not surprise me that there's been some adjustment there,'' said Fred D. Thompson, who officially declared his candidacy for the Republican nomination this week, while campaigning in Iowa. ''Unemployment is at a level that used to be considered full employment in this country. Nothing is sustainable forever. Things ebb and flow.''
 Democratic candidates used the first monthly decline in employment in four years to attack Mr. Bush. Senator Barack Obama of Illinois said Mr. Bush's economic policies demonstrated his ''failure to lead.'' 
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York said the jobs data proved the administration's strategy was ''not working for working Americans.'' 
 John Edwards, the former senator from North Carolina, said Mr. Bush's support for globalization had ''accelerated the winnings of the winners.''
 But for Mr. Bernanke, who has to make the most immediate decisions, the new employment numbers are unlikely to have settled the issue. Fed officials were almost certainly taken aback by the drop in jobs last month. Wall Street forecasters had predicted an increase of about 100,000 jobs, though many had trimmed back their forecasts in recent days.
 Instead, the Labor Department estimated that the nation actually lost 4,000 jobs in August, and it reduced its estimate of the jobs created in June and July. The average monthly pace of job creation dropped to only 32,000 jobs in the most recent two months from 139,000 jobs in the second quarter of this year.
 Fed officials had been awaiting the August jobs report, viewing it as the last major statistical indicator they would get before their policy meeting on Sept. 18. 
 But the report probably did not convince all policy makers that a recession is likely. Much of the recent decline in job creation came in construction and the downturn in housing, which had already been expected. And some of the decline stemmed from a decline in government jobs, which are not tied to the economic cycle.
 ''He needs to mollify the markets and Congress,'' Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group, said of Mr. Bernanke. 
 ''But it's important to remember that Bernanke has said, over and over again, that the best way to ensure economic growth is to anchor inflation expectations. He knows we still have a low unemployment rate, that industrial capacity is still tight. If he's going to reduce interest rates substantially, he'll be increasing inflation expectations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FORECLOSURE (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); TAX INCENTIVES (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); TAX REFORM (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); EDUCATION FUNDING (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ED LAZEAR (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



175 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Bin Laden Releases Video As C.I.A. Issues Warning

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
A videotaped message by Osama bin Laden, the first in nearly three years, compares the Iraq war to American blunders in Vietnam, criticizes the Democratic Party for failing to pull American troops from Iraq, and urges Americans to embrace Islam. 
 Details of the video emerged yesterday, the same day that the director of the Central Intelligence Agency gave a public warning about Al Qaeda's gathering strength and unapologetically defended his agency's campaign to kill and capture the group's operatives worldwide. 
 The video, timed to the approaching sixth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, shows the leader of Al Qaeda with a black beard, and his references to news events appear to date the tape to within the past few months. 
 The 26-minute video does not contain any direct warnings of an impending attack, focusing instead on the Iraq war and the ''terrorism'' of Western leaders, including President Bush, Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. Mr. bin Laden vowed to ''continue to escalate the killing and fighting'' in Iraq.
 President Bush, speaking in Sydney, Australia, said, ''Iraq is part of this war against extremists,'' The Associated Press reported. ''If Al Qaeda bothers to mention Iraq, it's because they want to achieve their objectives in Iraq, which is to drive us out.''
 A transcript of the tape was made available by the SITE Institute, a research organization that monitors the video and Internet messages of jihadist groups. 
 An American intelligence official said that an initial analysis confirmed that the voice on the tape was Mr. bin Laden's. It is the first video message from Mr. bin Laden since October 2004; he released an audio message last summer. 
 During a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations yesterday, the C.I.A. director, Gen. Michael V. Hayden defended the agency's controversial program of detaining terrorism suspects in secret jails abroad and subjecting them to harsh interrogation. He insisted that those efforts were legal, but pledged that his agency would operate right at the boundary of what is permitted by law. 
 General Hayden said that domestic and European criticism of C.I.A operations was misguided and that it exaggerated the number of suspects in agency hands. 
 It is rare for a C.I.A. director to defend his agency in such a public forum, and General Hayden said Friday that he had asked to speak at the council. 
 During a question and answer session after the speech, General Hayden lamented that the Sept. 11 attacks have become a distant memory for too many Americans, giving rise to intense criticism of American counterterrorism efforts.
 He said that the number of detainees moved through C.I.A. prisons over the past five years was fewer than 100, and that the C.I.A. had transferred several dozen more into the hands of foreign governments for detention, a practice called extraordinary rendition. 
 Citing the findings of a recent National Intelligence Estimate about the terrorism threat, General Hayden said that American spy agencies believed that Al Qaeda was planning ''high-impact plots'' against the United States and focusing on targets that would ''produce mass casualties, dramatic destruction and significant economic aftershocks.''
 He said intelligence agencies were uncertain whether Al Qaeda had again succeeded in slipping operatives into the United States. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Michael V. Hayden, in New York yesterday, defended the C.I.A.'s detention of terrorism suspects in secret foreign jails. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (62%); RELIGION (57%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); MICHAEL HAYDEN (89%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (52%); GORDON BROWN (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (75%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%); VIET NAM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



176 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Chief Sees Link Of Housing to Car Sales

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD and NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Only a month after taking charge of Chrysler, Robert L. Nardelli is concerned that problems in the housing market and the broader economy are hurting car and truck sales, and he wants his company to draft a plan to respond.
 Mr. Nardelli said Friday that the automaker's new board would meet in October to review an overhaul plan created in February, when Chrysler was still part of DaimlerChrysler, and to make revisions to guide the company through 2010.
 Chrysler was sold Aug. 3 to Cerberus Capital Management, a private equity firm, which hired Mr. Nardelli, the former chief executive at Home Depot.
 ''We're going to look hard at the next three years financially, and we're going to put a plan in place to meet that requirement,'' Mr. Nardelli said. That is in addition to a plan that calls for Chrysler to cut 13,000 jobs and close an assembly plant in Newark, Del. 
 He said the company would devise a 10-year plan for new products; the usual planning cycle for auto companies is five years.
 In recent weeks, auto companies and Wall Street analysts have reduced their forecasts for auto sales because of a combination of factors, including high gas prices, consumer uncertainty and the crisis facing mortgage lenders.
 As the former head of Home Depot, the home improvement retailer, Mr. Nardelli said, he can see a connection between housing woes and the automobile market. He said Chrysler was trying to anticipate what might await the industry, whose sales this year are expected to be the worst since 1998.
 ''There is a direct coupling there,'' Mr. Nardelli said in a speech to the Automotive Press Association, ''and some negative spill from housing into the auto industry.''
 Mr. Nardelli's speech was a coming-out of sorts for the executive, who joined Chrysler on Aug. 6. He told the audience that Chrysler, which is no longer public and does not have to report financial data, would nonetheless continue to announce information like production schedules and sales.
 ''We have no intention of creating a bunker mentality,'' Mr. Nardelli said.
 Mr. Nardelli, a former executive at General Electric who left Home Depot in January, drew on many familiar phrases from his G.E. days to outline what he planned to do at Chrysler. Along with focusing on consumer satisfaction, quality, the environment and global operations, Mr. Nardelli said he wanted the company to rethink the way it approached the car market.
 ''We hear a lot about right-sizing the business; I think we have to right-size the revenue,'' Mr. Nardelli said. ''We have to make the right decisions about our brands. We can't just have emotional attachment to some of the brands and the products that are out there.'' 
 On Thursday, Chrysler said it hired James E. Press, the head of Toyota's North American operations, as its co-president. He will serve alongside Thomas W. LaSorda, who was Chrysler's chief executive before Mr. Nardelli arrived. Mr. Press will oversee sales and marketing, as well as dealers, and Mr. LaSorda will focus on operations. 
 Mr. Nardelli said that Chrysler did not plan to eliminate the Chrysler, Dodge or Jeep brands but that it would review its lineup. He also said the company intended to ''monetize assets that have been sitting there.'' Chrysler is said to be looking for a buyer for its Mopar performance parts unit and the Chrysler Transport division, which delivers supplies to factories. He did not give any specifics about what might be sold but said, ''There is quite a long list.''
 Mr. Nardelli said he wanted Chrysler's problems to be addressed in the near term, so that the company could take a longer-term view of the car market. Some analysts have criticized the turnaround plan at Ford, presented in January 2006, in which the company does not promise to be profitable in North America before 2009. Ford also has yet to announce all the factories it plans to shut under the program, called ''the way forward.''
 ''To look out beyond three years financially and put any effort into a five-year plan, you're kind of kidding yourself,'' Mr. Nardelli said.
 Mr. Nardelli, who not only became the chief executive but also fills a new position as chairman, reiterated that Mr. LaSorda would remain at the company. His demotion from chief executive to president and Mr. Press's appointment have given rise to speculation that Mr. LaSorda might leave. Mr. Nardelli, however, said that he had begun holding lunchtime meetings on Mondays with Mr. LaSorda and that Mr. Press would join them once he comes to Chrysler on Sept. 17.
 ''I want to dispel any of the rumors or the notions about Tom,'' Mr. Nardelli said, adding he felt fortunate to have Mr. LaSorda, known for his manufacturing expertise, and Mr. Press, an expert on relationships with dealers, on either side of him. ''Any one of those guys could be running a corporation,'' Mr. Nardelli said. 
 A number of car companies, including Ford Motor and Chrysler, have tried such a shared management structure in the past. They generally dissolve when one of the executives departs or a new leader is named.
 As Mr. Nardelli left after his speech, he was thronged by reporters, photographers and camera crews, who followed him to an elevator in the Detroit Athletic Club. Mr. Nardelli's experience echoed that of Alan R. Mulally, who joined Ford a year ago from the Boeing Company and received a similar reception when he came to town.
 Mr. Nardelli stressed that he was on a ''vertical learning curve'' at the company, where he has already had a hectic schedule, traveling to visit operations from Toledo, Ohio, to Toluca, Mexico. He has met with senior management, dealers, suppliers, leaders of the United Automobile Workers union and the Canadian Auto Workers union, and union leaders in Mexico.
 He noted that he had similar experiences at Home Depot and G.E., however, and he seemed enthusiastic. ''There's something magical about Chrysler,'' he said, ''its legacy and the opportunity it presents.''
 Chrysler Hires Chief for Asia
 HONG KONG, Sept. 7 -- Chrysler has named Philip F. Murtaugh, perhaps the best-known auto executive in China, to be its chief executive for operations in Asia. 
 Mr. Murtaugh, who is still followed by crowds of Chinese reporters at public appearances, spent nearly a decade building General Motors into the second-largest automaker in China. He resigned in March 2005, when a corporate reorganization took away much of his autonomy. 
 He has spent the last year as executive vice president of G.M.'s main joint-venture partner in China, the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, overseeing that company's effort to build its own domestic brand. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Nardelli, in Detroit, said Chrysler's board would review plans in light of the economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); HOME CENTERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); SALES PROJECTIONS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (51%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2007



177 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; EAST END; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Have to Leave? Sorry You Don't Live Here

BYLINE: By COCO MYERS

 BODY:
East Hampton
 A few weeks ago, Anne Gibson, 14, was walking down Main Street here with a couple of her friends. The town, in full vacationers' mode, was packed with summer people. The girls ducked into a gift shop, bought headbands and a magic marker, then wrote ''local'' on the bands and proceeded to walk around town wearing them. 
 ''I'd never have dreamed of doing that as a kid,'' said Anne's mother, Kay Gibson, who grew up in East Hampton and moved back in 1999 with her family. ''My friends and I were always trying not to identify ourselves as local.'' 
 Only a generation ago, growing up as a year-rounder on the East End could give you an inferiority complex. The summer people arrived on Memorial Day, unshuttered their houses, drove around in expensive cars and swarmed the streets and beaches. Then they cleared out on Labor Day, creating a vacuum of energy and leaving the locals to reclaim the town, and their egos. 
 Well, times have changed. The season now stretches well beyond summer, with events like the Hamptons International Film Festival in October bringing an influx of culture and a buzz to the area. And attitudes have shifted, too. 
 ''There was definitely a sense of 'us and them' when I was a kid,'' said Eve Combemale, who spent summers in East Hampton as a child and is raising her three children in Bridgehampton, where she works as a real estate agent. ''That distinction has dissolved, along with the air of elitism that some of the city kids brought with them. There isn't as much resentment from the locals toward the city kids, since many of the locals are former city kids themselves.'' 
 The year-round community has grown larger and more diverse. Artists and writers have long lived among the tradesmen and fishermen, but now faster computers and greater flexibility in the workplace have made it possible for all kinds of professionals to leave the city. 
 Some of these transplants were already homeowners who turned their weekend houses into permanent residences. 
 ''We knew we didn't want to raise our kids in the city forever, and we realized my husband could just as easily do his job from home part time,'' said Susy Kramer, formerly a corporate lawyer in New York. Ms. Kramer and the children live full time in their East Hampton house, while her husband, Michael, an investment adviser, splits his week, working at home two days, going into Manhattan three.
 ''You can definitely get more house for your money out here than you can for an apartment in the city,'' said Charlie Esposito, a real estate agent in Bridgehampton, adding that she has several clients looking for year-round rentals to test the waters.
 Perhaps just as important as housing costs, especially for ex-urbanites with children, is the perception of a safer environment. After 9/11 there was a spike in the population on the East End, according to the Long Island Power Authority, whose surveys have shown steady growth in year-round households each year since. 
 Schools are feeling the swell, too. Enrollment is significantly up in the East Hampton public schools, said Raymond Gaultieri, the superintendent of that district. ''East Hampton High School was built for 500 students, and we've now grown to over 1,000,'' he said. The high school, along with the elementary school, is undergoing an expansion. 
 Since 2006, transplanted New Yorkers have also had the option of a private school, Ross, that serves pre-nursery through 12th grade. 
 Children still attending school in the city are coming to the Hamptons on weekends more often throughout the year and mingling with year-rounders, especially on the playing fields. Town-sponsored sports leagues like soccer, basketball and T-ball are open to all residents, part or full time. ''The city kids miss midweek practice but show up for the games,'' said Graham Sutherland, 13, who goes to Southampton Middle School. 
 Locals and city kids are also saddling up together. ''The stable where my daughter rides is half local and half city,'' Ms. Combemale said. ''They see each other in the summer and sometimes on weekends during the year, and the city kids often invite the local kids to parties and events in New York.'' 
 The fact that year-rounders and summer kids are socializing as a matter of course is a marked difference from just a few years ago, when Victor Fehrm, now 19, was growing up on Shelter Island. ''There were the 'islanders' and the 'yachties'-- the summer kids who hung out at the yacht club,'' he said. ''We didn't really mix, but now the kids do.''
 The closing of the social gap goes hand in hand with a narrowing economic gap between longtime locals and summer people. ''With more wealthy people living here full time, more money is being paid for services like carpentry and house painting,'' Mr. Fehrm said. ''My friend's dad went from cutting grass with a push lawn mower to running a million-dollar lawn care business.'' 
 Even if their parents aren't millionaires, year-round kids don't feel the same disparity between the haves and have-nots as their parents did. 
 ''When I was young, most local families didn't have a second car. Now a lot of them have pools and are driving around in Range Rovers,'' said Ms. Gibson, formerly an art director at GQ magazine. She was hesitant to pull her children out of private school on the Upper East Side and take them to her hometown, and the same public school she went to, but history, she finds, is not repeating itself. ''Then, the city kids represented some sophistication that we didn't find here. The world out here has caught up culturally, socially and economically.'' 
 Nor do young people today feel the sting of condescension remembered by Gayle Pickering, a Water Mill native whose children attend public school in Sag Harbor. ''You'd be dating someone from the estate section and the understanding was, don't get too excited, he'll be gone in September, and the parents would never allow it anyway,'' she said. ''You don't sense that anymore.'' 
 And even if the epithets remain, they've lost their sting. ''Some of my old city friends still call the locals townies,'' said Julia Greenberg, 17, who moved to Bridgehampton from New York when she was 10 and attends Ross School. Does she mind? No, she shrugged. 
 In fact, it's the year-rounder who has the sense of entitlement now. ''Locals are cool,'' said Leo Turpan, a seventh grader at Ross. ''We're the lucky ones. We get to stay after Labor Day. This is our town.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PROUD LOCAL: Anne Gibson, 14, is a former New Yorker
 YEAR ROUNDERS: Main Street, above, swells with full-time residents, including recent transplants like Susy and Michael Kramer and their children, Sam and JiJi, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEIRDRE BRENNAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); US LABOR DAY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); WRITERS (72%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (66%); FILM (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (66%); FESTIVALS (66%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



178 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Struggling to Save a Main Street Mainstay

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
Colebrook
 THE newspapers for sale in the window were 10 days old, and the shelves were largely bare but for a few boxes of cake mix and saltines. Established in 1812, the Colebrook Store is the oldest continuously operated general store in the state. But since mid-July this nostalgia-soaked spot across from town hall, where the coffee is hot and the gossip lukewarm, has been closed for vacation. 
 To the dismay of many of its neighbors, it is on the market and may be closed for good.
 ''It is the center of town, as far as I'm concerned,'' said Jerry Rathbun, the first selectman in this postcard-perfect town of 1,500 in the state's northwest corner. ''Without it, the whole place kind of dies.'' 
 General stores are gradually vanishing, victims of changing economics and consumer habits. In Connecticut only a handful remain, leaving many towns with fluorescent-lighted gas-station quick marts instead. 
 In Colebrook, signs in the window of the general store said: ''Closed for Vacation. Be back July 17.'' Two days later, the door was still closed. Joan M. Durant, the town assessor's clerk, said: ''I don't think it has ever been closed for vacation. Now everyone is waiting to see if it will reopen.''
 Dennis Spector, a college professor who lives in town, was standing outside wondering where to get his coffee. ''There's no Starbucks,'' he said. 
 When reached later that day, the owner, Lora C. Murphy, 53, said that, as a mother of two, including a daughter with special needs, she could not afford to continue running the store at a loss. Ms. Murphy has owned the place for about two years. Customers may rave about the eclairs and like the idea of running into neighbors when they buy the newspaper, she said, but that's not enough. ''It's really hard because the local community sees it as a novelty.'' 
 Housed in a Greek Revival building with a two-bedroom apartment upstairs, the store has an asking price of $295,000. As of last week, a local business owner had a contract on the property, but it was unclear whether the store would reopen. ''People think it's romantic,'' said David Taylor, an agent at Elyse Harney Real Estate, which is handling the sale. ''But it's not. It's a business. You still have to get up and make the coffee.'' 
 In Northfield, Mary Brown, 55, has put her general store on the market after owning it three years and spending about $100,000 to spruce it up. The blue-shuttered building has stood on Main Street since 1790; it's been a store since 1884. 
 Mrs. Brown bought it because it was the ''cutest little store'' she had ever seen, she said. She stocked it with candy, cereal, soup and shampoo, and she makes sandwiches but the six-day work weeks are too much, she said. The store just went on the market with an asking price of $389,000. 
 Other general stores are prospering only by dint of location, hard work and revised inventories. In Riverton, just south of Colebrook on the Farmington River, the owner of the general store, Leslie DiMartino, 48, stocks the usual staples like batteries, clothespins and work gloves. But she has added items that weren't there when she bought the place three years ago, including breakfast sandwiches and pizza, which she serves on an outdoor terrace.
 So far the formula seems to be working. ''It's been here 25 years,'' she said of the store, ''and we have the fishermen nearby.''
 There's a similar story in Noank Village, in Groton, where the general store, Universal Food, begun as a shipyard store (and built with recycled schooner parts), dates to the 1800's. Frank Quaratella, 63, said his family bought it in 1947 and three nearby marinas keep business brisk. 
 That and an up-to-date selection of specialty meats and locally grown produce. 
 Mr. Quaratella, who was too busy slicing meat to field questions when reached by phone during the week, said later: ''You have to keep reinventing yourself. We've just remodeled; we've added more prepared foods. We've worked very hard to keep it going.'' He said the store closes maybe four times a year for holidays. 
 On the other side of the state in Newtown, Peter Leone, 45, runs a general store that goes back to 1847. Mr. Leone, who formerly owned a deli in Bethel, has adapted by keeping in step with the eating habits of busy families. 
 A history buff, Mr. Leone has lined the store with 19th-century newspapers. Tourists snap pictures of the store and artists paint it. He sells eggs, juice and milk, but prepared foods generate the profits. 
 ''I have pictures of 100 years ago when it was a general store that had a basket of apples next to paint and stain canisters,'' Mr. Leone said. ''I wish I could still sell all that stuff, but with the big stores selling it, there is no way I could make any money.''
 At one time general stores -- descended from trading posts -- tried to serve all. Today a general store is more likely to cater to a niche. In Cornwall one recent weekday afternoon, one shopper, Paul Wieski, stopped by the century-old general store to ask if he could store a 55-pound pig in a store cooler. He also asked one of the owners, K. . C. Baird, for roasting tips. 
 Another shopper, Geraldine Rubin, who lives in Manhattan and has a country house in Cornwall, perused the meat counter and pronounced its free-range chicken as ''the best.''
 ''When we walked in here the first time, we thought, 'how quaint,' never expecting it to be something special,'' she said as she picked up provisions. 
 Mr. Baird, who owns the store with his brother Tom, carries unhomogenized milk from a local dairy, its creamy top on display in thick glass bottles. The meat counter carries largely organic cuts. And when weekenders want to arrive on a Friday night to a stocked refrigerator, the Bairds borrow a key and arrange it.
 ''I never expect anyone to do all their weekend shopping here,'' Mr. Baird said. 
 He said his customers like to come by ''to drink their coffee, read the paper, talk.''
 But for some general store owners, that appealing image is not quite enough. Ms. Murphy, wistfully recalling her early enthusiasm for the Colebrook store, said a friendly face and a hot pot of coffee were only part of the picture. 
 ''People need to buy,'' she said. ''We're not a museum.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOR SALE: Lora C. Murphy, below, in an 1812 general store with columns out front and a ''store dog'' inside. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); HOME PRICES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



179 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: It's Time To Take A Deep Breath

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHO would ever have dreamed that credit could be so thrilling? And yet tremors and shivers over credit, and especially over subprime mortgages, have led to some real panic in the financial markets, and rings of fire in the ventricles of the coldest-hearted financiers.
 Despite the oceans of ink that have been written on this subject, it seems to me that a few points have rarely been made, and may be worth making now. 
 IT WASN'T ALL BAD The subprime mortgage industry apparently helped some people either get into homes or stay in their homes. Yes, it was far from an unmixed good, as we have seen in vivid hues lately. But because of these mortgages, many thousands of Americans who would otherwise not have their own homes now have homes. (Much of the recent subprime mortgage activity was about refinancings, but not all.)
 Owning your own home is generally considered the bedrock of the American dream, so this is a good thing, both socially and individually. Walking into your own home, seeing your own dogs waiting for you there, is a major blessing. 
 The percentage of those who have defaulted is still fairly small, possibly 10 percent to 15 percent of subprime loans, and maybe less. (And subprime mortgages are very roughly 10 percent to 15 percent of mortgages.) That means that the experiment with granting loans to less-qualified buyers worked to a point. I guess -- as I have said before -- that there was a reason these loans were called ''subprime.''
 The lending system, however, did go too far in the direction of laxity. Obviously, there should have been tighter standards at the lower end of the borrowing scale. ''Stated'' income (in other words, ''unverified'') and ''no doc'' loans were probably not a great idea, except for borrowers who were well known to the lender or already had documents on file. There was excessive eagerness to put borrowers into these loans, and now we are all paying the price for the immense fees that the subprime lenders garnered. 
 This is what we economists call an externality: a cost associated with the transaction that is borne by society in general, not just the parties to the transaction. That cost will be whatever government programs are enacted to bail out borrowers in trouble -- while those who lent the money get away pretty much scot-free.
 THERE'S PLENTY OF BLAME TO GO AROUND There has been major dishonesty about mortgages at every level. Subprime issuers in many cases did not tell borrowers what their full costs were going to be, especially when the interest rate reset. This will clearly become a problem, although we cannot yet measure its impact. 
 The bundlers of subprime debt into collateralized debt obligations did not always tell the buyers of this stuff -- especially the foreign buyers -- just how risky this paper was, and now the buyers are suffering. (The amounts at risk because of defaults, though, are generally small compared with the capital of the banks in question.) 
 Alas, there is a long tradition of the United States not telling foreign lenders just how dicey certain loans are. It goes back to the 19th century and American borrowings from Europe for railroads, bridges, canals and farmland. Caveat emptor. Caveat lender.
 Today, some of the foreigners send us their toys with lead paint and we send them our bonds with (sometimes) toxic default rates. This isn't a good thing, but it's the way the world works. There are a lot of scammers out there. Foreign lenders have every right to be concerned about American standards of truthfulness and disclosure.
 But what is often overlooked is that many borrowers, people who look at themselves in the mirror every morning, lied like madmen to get their mortgages. 
 Years ago, I spoke to a gathering of mortgage sales representatives. Their tales of buyer fraud were almost unbelievable. These salespeople were pretty aggressive themselves, and I wondered how many borrowers would wind up in tears from what they did. But their customers -- so I was told -- would say anything, sign anything, to get a loan.
 The human animal is often dishonest, and if it takes telling a few fibs about income and money in the bank to get into a house, many people will do it. My only point here is that it is not just the big boys whose lies and entrapments got us into trouble. Plenty of ordinary citizens played along.
 IT'S GOING TO TAKE TIME Real estate crashes do not end quickly. Realtors have a rule: there are no soft landings. Residential real estate is like a huge ship. Once it starts moving, it's hard to stop. Once it slows down, it's hard to make it speed up again. 
 We lucky citizens of sunny Southern California have been through some hair-raising real estate crashes since I moved there in 1976. The worst started in the spring of 1990 (just as I closed on my not-at-all-lavish Malibu home). Prices did not recover for a good eight years. That was harrowing, but there is a lesson here: real estate crashes are not like stock fluctuations, in which the market can lose 10 percent in a month and gain it back a few months later. In many cases, real estate takes a long time to turn around.
 There is a good side to this, too. Namely, the time to buy real estate is when it's down. Now, or some time close to now, buyers will be able to find real bargains. In time, maybe a long time, prices will recover and a new peak will be reached. But when everyone is crying the housing blues is the time to buy. Bargain hard. In many regions, sellers want to hear any offer right now.
 GOD BLESS THE FED We should be thankful indeed for the Federal Reserve. I know that some strict disciplinarians want to let the markets go through hell and let borrowers and investors suffer. Except for the possibility that this could provide them with some sadistic glee, I don't see the point. 
 A few weeks ago, the markets were in a genuine panic. The traders were erupting with fear in some cases, and with greed as they went short in other cases. If the Fed had not stepped in to supply liquidity and confidence -- and to send these overtired traders to their rooms for a time-out -- there could have been real problems. Innocent people could have been terribly hurt. 
 We are lucky to be at a stage of capitalism when we have a Federal Reserve, led by Ben S. Bernanke, and Alan Greenspan before him, that will stop a hysterical market meltdown that is not based on fundamentals. The free marketeers may want to see suffering. Let them watch a boxing match. There is no reason for the innocent to be impoverished because traders panic. I know that the Fed's rescue mission saved some rich people from distress, too. It's a small price to pay for keeping the economy on an even keel. 
 THIS IS A BIG BOAT ''There is a lot of ruin in a nation.'' This is from the greatest of all economists, Adam Smith. There is especially a lot of ruin in a nation with the economic power of the United States. I get to the point of laughing when I read doom-saying articles in the business sections of newspapers or watch Jim Cramer on CNBC. 
 Yes, there are real problems: housing, mortgage defaults, losses at financial firms, rot in hedge funds. But over all, things will be fine. Unless there is a genuine dollar crisis or a devastating recession (very unlikely), things will work out. This economy is very big and very solid. It cannot be derailed for long by anything we have seen lately.
 If I were the editor of the business section for just one day, I would run one immense headline: ''Everything Is Going toBe Fine. Go Back to Work.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



180 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: On the Bittersweet Road to Oscar, Again

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
 TAKE a handful of damaged characters. Put them on a road to some unexpected place, like the Central California wine country or the never-never land of a kiddie beauty pageant. Squeeze for laughs until everybody hurts.
 And you might have the sort of movie -- like ''Little Miss Sunshine'' last year, or ''Sideways'' two years before -- that has twice brought Fox Searchlight and its allied producers within heartbreak distance of a best-picture Oscar.
 If this is finally to be the year for the robust specialty unit that was formed by 20th Century Fox some 13 years ago, ''The Darjeeling Limited'' is likely to be the film to make it so.
 Directed by Wes Anderson and written by Mr. Anderson with Roman Coppola and Jason Schwartzman, the latest happy-sad road trip from Fox Searchlight is set to make its American debut at the New York Film Festival on Sept. 28. It will be released commercially the next day. 
 ''Darjeeling'' carries Mr. Anderson's distinctive mark: As in his films ''The Royal Tenenbaums'' and ''The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,'' familiars like Anjelica Huston and the recently hospitalized Owen Wilson populate a bit of space made personal by its crosshatching of eccentricity and family ties. But it also sticks closely to some conventions -- the road trip, the bittersweet comedy -- that have done well for its studio. This time around the damaged heroes are a trio of brothers played by Mr. Schwartzman, Mr. Wilson and Adrien Brody. They travel by train through the Indian subcontinent in search of a mother, Ms. Huston, who has become a nun. Along the way they inflict a fair amount of pain on one another. 
 But the real jolts come from encounters with the alien universe around them, perhaps lending just enough scope to let Fox Searchlight work its magic once again with voters of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
 Peter Rice, the studio's president, declined to be interviewed for this article. Still, some who have worked closely with Fox Searchlight noted that Mr. Rice and his team have followed one basic rule with their best picture bets in the past: Let the audience lead.
 ''They don't try to sell what's not there,'' said Albert Berger, who with his partner Ron Yerxa was among the producers of ''Little Miss Sunshine.'' The Fox Searchlight method, Mr. Berger said, has been to let a picture ''explode, if it was going to, into academy consideration.''
 Ten years ago the company's first best-picture nominee, ''The Full Monty,'' did exactly that. A modest British comedy about unemployed steelworkers doing a striptease act, it had no major stars and was directed by the relatively unknown Peter Cattaneo. But it turned into the art-house equivalent of a blockbuster when it scooped up $46 million at the United States box office during an unusually long eight months in theaters. 
 Academy voters got on board about halfway through that run, nominating the picture, along with its director, screenplay and music, for Oscars. (Only the last was a winner, as ''Titanic'' swept the awards that year.)
 Something like that pattern repeated itself with ''Sideways'' and ''Little Miss Sunshine,'' Fox Searchlight's only other best-picture nominees to date. Both of those started as critic- and crowd-pleasers. Both carried what many in Hollywood are beginning to see as the ministudio's trademark bittersweet comic sensibility, a signature that has emerged during Mr. Rice's nearly eight-year tenure with the unit, which he took over in early 2000. 
 ''People do matter, as much as those who run big corporations want to think otherwise,'' said Mark Gill, a producer who was previously at Warner Independent Pictures, referring to the personal mark that Mr. Rice and other executives have put on their respective companies.
 Miramax, Mr. Gill noted, has shown a bent for Anglocentric fare like ''The Queen'' and ''Becoming Jane'' under its president, Daniel Battsek. And Sony Pictures Classics, under Michael Barker and Tom Bernard, was long an outpost for foreign-language films, like the 2001 best-picture nominee ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon'' and last year's ''Lives of Others,'' both of which won the Oscar for best foreign-language film. 
 Fox Searchlight's soft spot for off-center comedy has gotten the studio on tiptoes but never quite kissed come Oscar night: voters may love their beautiful losers, but serious pictures like ''Crash'' or ''The Departed'' tend to go home with the prize. 
 When it comes to awards, however, Mr. Anderson has some history on his side. Together with Mr. Wilson he was nominated for an Oscar for best original screenplay in 2002, although the prize went to Julian Fellowes for ''Gosford Park.''
 One of Mr. Anderson's producers, Scott Rudin, has been involved with several recent Oscar contenders. Last year Mr. Rudin was an executive producer of ''The Queen'' and ''Venus,'' Miramax releases that captured seven nominations between them and a best-actress Oscar for Helen Mirren. Fox Searchlight's ''Notes on a Scandal,'' of which Mr. Rudin was a producer, received four nominations.
 For the Fox Searchlight formula to work, the audience will have to get on board with ''Darjeeling Limited,'' something it has not really done with Mr. Anderson's past work. Of his previous films, only ''The Royal Tenenbaums,'' which took in about $52 million at the domestic box office when Disney released it in 2001, has approached the commercial success of ''Sideways'' and ''Sunshine.''
 But Mr. Rice can always turn to ''The Savages,'' another tragicomic trip he has tucked in his hip pocket for the year's end. This one is written and directed by Tamara Jenkins, whose husband, Jim Taylor, shared an Academy Award with Alexander Payne in 2005 for writing ''Sideways.''
 It finds the damaged heroes Laura Linney (an Oscar nominee for ''Kinsey'' and ''You Can Count on Me'') and Philip Seymour Hoffman (a winner for ''Capote'') rushing from Manhattan and Buffalo to the off-center environs of a retirement community in Sun City, Ariz., and back, in the service of a mentally deteriorating father played by Philip Bosco.
 In the way of these things, a good time, and bad, is had by all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Jason Schwartzman, Adrien Brody and Owen Wilson in ''The Darjeeling Limited,'' directed by Wes Anderson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HAMILTON/20TH CENTURY FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); FESTIVALS (67%); FACTORY WORKERS (60%); TRAINS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (89%) CALIFORNIA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

TITLE: Darjeeling Limited, The (Movie)>; Darjeeling Limited, The (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



181 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Employment Report Scares the Market

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
It was a fine week for the stock market, until Friday. Then a surprisingly weak jobs report sent the markets reeling and plunged the major stock averages into a deficit for the week. 
 Wall Street expected the report to say that at least 100,000 jobs had been created in August. Instead, 4,000 jobs were lost in the month, raising questions about the strength of the overall economy and heightening expectations that the Federal Reserve would trim short-term interest rates no later than its next regularly scheduled meeting on Sept. 18. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 244.36 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 13,113.38. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 20.44 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 1,453.55. The Nasdaq composite index fell 30.66 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 2,565.70. 
 In the bond market, Treasuries rallied, pushing prices higher and yields lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.38 percent from 4.53 percent the previous week. American markets were closed Monday for Labor Day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); JOB CREATION (73%); US LABOR DAY (69%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



182 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: As One Bubble Collapses, Is Another Taking Shape?

BYLINE: By TERESA TRITCH

 BODY:
Dear Mr. Secretary, 
 I'm concerned that as the mortgage bubble is deflating, Wall Street and its Washington champions -- you prominent among them -- are poised to inflate the next bubble.
 The immediate problem is liquidity, the combination of confidence plus cash that fuels deal making. It's drying up as lenders grow fearful that today's typical borrower may be tomorrow's market casualty.
 You know better than most that Wall Street can't thrive without liquidity. 
 But you also seem to believe that liquidity equals prosperity. History and current events indicate otherwise. When money is too easy -- as it was for much of this decade -- asset prices rise, lenders and borrowers take excessive risks, and bubbles form. The effects are amplified if regulators turn a blind eye, as they did in the past several years.
 The damage from the latest bubble is now becoming evident, including credit seizures so severe that the Federal Reserve must intervene, and foreclosures on a scale last seen in the Depression. 
 And yet, you recently told The Wall Street Journal that in your judgment, there is nothing government should do ''in terms of restraining risk taking.'' That judgment, if followed, virtually ensures another bubble, which could be even more dangerous -- not only to the economy but to the national interest. 
 Today, the deepest and most coveted pools of liquidity are the trillions of dollars held by other governments, amassed in the course of trade. And now, just as Wall Street needs liquidity, those governments increasingly want to use their dollars not only to make loans -- as has been customary -- but to buy up private assets in the United States and elsewhere, like banks, office buildings, high-tech companies, retailers, pipelines and corporate stock. 
 Ownership implies control that lending does not. And ownership by foreign governments is politically problematic in ways that private ownership is not. That is especially true given that many of the biggest investment pools, known as sovereign wealth funds, are held by nations that have exceedingly complex relationships with the United States, economically and strategically. 
 Most of the cash in sovereign funds -- some $2.5 trillion is now on hand from a projected $17.5 trillion in the next 10 years -- is held by exporters of oil and gas from the Persian Gulf, Russia, Algeria and Venezuela. Megafunds are also held by Asian exporters, mainly China, Singapore and South Korea. 
 Wall Street wants to dive in. Your bent for unbridled risk urges you on as well. Sounding more like a current chairman of Goldman Sachs than a former one, you recently told The Times's Steven Weisman, ''I'd like nothing more than to get more of that money.'' 
 You noted that sovereign funds evoke ''a natural fear that they're going to buy up America.'' You misread the reaction. It is not fear, per se -- which implies timidity or ignorance -- but prudent awareness of possible danger. 
 No one knows how politically motivated sovereign wealth investments could be, if not at the time they are made, then later, as governments change their policies. Russia has already tried to use its economic power for political ends, alarming Europe with warnings of energy shortages in response to political decisions it dislikes. Ditto the nations of OPEC, whose pricing decisions can hardly be ascribed to economic self-interest alone. 
 The answer is not to shun sovereign wealth funds. But as Treasury secretary, you must take the lead in developing binding regulations to guard against the possibility that foreign governments could someday use large investments in America to gain political advantage.
 Your usual preference for voluntary codes of conduct would be inappropriate and insufficient. A current government may pledge not to interfere in a host nation's politics, but a future ruler may not keep a predecessor's pledge. 
 A unilateral approach would also be counterproductive. Unless the rules are binding internationally, sovereign funds could play Western companies off one another as they scramble ''to get more of that money.'' 
 To date, you have ably educated Congress and the public on why the rise of China and other trading partners is not to be feared or begrudged, but rather managed. The next step in that process is to create rules to manage sovereign funds. The rules should include mandatory, audited disclosures of the funds' holdings; reciprocity for American investors; and caps on the share of any one company that a government investor may buy.
 I understand that rules to restrain risk go against your grain as a former Wall Street investment banker. But as the secretary of the Treasury, you need to safeguard against a flow of foreign government capital that, poorly regulated, could impair national security. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (91%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (54%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



183 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: What's Missing In Baghdad

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Erbil, Iraq
 One of the most troubling lessons of the Iraq invasion is just how empty the Arab dictatorships are. Once you break the palace, by ousting the dictator, the elevator goes straight to the mosque. There is nothing in between -- no civil society, no real labor unions, no real human rights groups, no real parliaments or press. So it is not surprising to see the sort of clerical leadership that has emerged in both the Sunni and Shiite areas of Iraq.
 But this is not true in northern Iraq, in Kurdistan. Though not a full-fledged democracy, Kurdistan is developing the key elements of a civil society. I met in Erbil with 20 such Kurdish groups -- unions, human rights and political watchdogs, editors and women's associations. It is worth studying what went right in Kurdistan to understand what we still can and can't do to promote democratization in the rest of Iraq and the Arab world. 
 The United States played a critical role in Kurdistan. In 1998, we helped to resolve the Kurdish civil war -- the power struggle between two rival clans -- which created the possibility of a stable, power-sharing election in 2005. And by removing Saddam, we triggered a flood of foreign investment here. 
 But that is all we did. Today, there are almost no U.S. soldiers or diplomats in Kurdistan. Yet politics here is flourishing, as is the economy, because the Kurds want it that way. Down south, we've spent billions trying to democratize the Sunni and Shiite zones and have little to show for it.
 Three lessons: 1) Until the power struggle between Sunnis and Shiites is resolved, you can't establish any stable politics in southern Iraq. 2) When people want to move down a progressive path, there is no stopping them. When they don't, there is no helping them. 3) Culture matters. The Kurdish Islam is a moderate, tolerant strain, explained Salam Bawari, head of Kurdistan's Democracy and Human Rights Research Center. ''We have a culture of pluralism,'' he said. ''We have 2,000 years of living together with people living around us.'' Actually, there are still plenty of Arab-Kurdish disputes, but there is an ethos of tolerance here you don't find elsewhere in Iraq.
 While visiting Kurdistan, I read a timely new book, ''Democracy's Good Name: The Rise and Risks of the World's Most Popular Form of Government,'' by my friend Michael Mandelbaum, a foreign affairs expert at Johns Hopkins University. It is highly relevant to America's democracy project in Iraq and beyond.
 Mr. Mandelbaum argues that democracy is made up of two elements: liberty and popular sovereignty. ''Liberty involves what governments do'' -- the rule of law, the protection of people from abuses of state power and the regulations by which government institutions operate, he explains. Popular sovereignty involves how the people determine who governs them -- through free elections. 
 What Baghdad exemplifies, Mr. Mandelbaum says, is what happens when you have elections without liberty. You end up with a tyranny of the majority, or what Fareed Zakaria has labeled ''illiberal democracy.'' Kurdistan, by contrast, has a chance to build a balanced democracy, because it is nurturing the institutions of liberty, not just holding elections. 
 What the Kurdistan-Baghdad contrast also illustrates, notes Mr. Mandelbaum, is that ''we can help create the conditions for democracy to take root, but people have to develop the skills and values that make it work themselves.'' 
 In the southern part of Iraq ''you have people who are undemocratic who have a democratic government,'' said Hemin Malazada, who heads a Kurdish journalists' association. ''In Kurdistan, you have a democratic government for a democratic people.'' 
 One way a country develops the software of liberty, Mr. Mandelbaum says, is by nurturing a free market. Kurdistan has one. The economy in the rest of Iraq remains a mess. ''A market economy,'' he argues, ''gives people a stake in peace, as well as a constructive way of dealing with people who are strangers. Free markets teach the basic democratic practices of compromise and trust.''
 Democracy can fail because of religious intolerance, the curse of oil, a legacy of colonialism and military dictatorship, or an aversion to Western values -- the wellspring of democracy. The Middle East, notes Mr. Mandelbaum, is the one region afflicted by all of these maladies. That doesn't mean democratization is impossible here, as the Kurds demonstrate. But it does mean it's really hard. Above all, Iraq teaches us that democracy is possible only when people want both pillars of it -- liberty and self-government -- and build both themselves. We're miles away from that in Baghdad. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POLITICS (88%); CIVIL WAR (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); RELIGION (72%); WOMEN (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); LABOR UNIONS (57%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



184 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: One Expensive Sardine Can

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN. 
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THERE were plenty of perfectly decent one-bedrooms available in Midtown Manhattan for $600,000 or $700,000, so Richard Hsieh tried to persuade himself to buy one. Prices would only rise, he figured. If he waited, there was no guarantee a better prospect would open up. Besides, he wasn't demanding. ''I could live in a sardine can if I had to,'' he said.
 His big requirement was location. Mr. Hsieh, 24, who is from the Los Angeles suburbs, wanted to live smack in the center of the city -- the busier the better. 
 He had been eager to come to New York for college. ''I love the city: the convenience, the night life, the social circles,'' he said. He studied economics at New York University, where he was fine living in a sardine-can dorm. 
 Later, with two friends, he rented a two-bedroom in Stuyvesant Town, where he occupied the living room, paying $725 a month for his share. He had an inconvenient subway trip to his office near Rockefeller Center, where he works as an investment banking analyst.
 He then moved with two other friends to a two-bedroom rental on Avenue of the Americas near 36th Street, paying $1,450 a month for an actual bedroom. He loved the area's busyness, especially after the tranquillity of Stuyvesant Town. 
 ''I wanted to experience the crowds,'' said Mr. Hsieh, who especially likes walking to work amid the throngs of tourists. ''I am seeing all these happy faces enjoying their day. It makes me feel this is what New York is about.''
 Because he planned to remain in New York, his family encouraged him to buy a place. Besides, his shared apartment ''had frat guy stuff all over the place,'' said his brother, Joseph Hsieh, a resident in neurosurgery at the University of Chicago Medical Center. ''It always made me sad how little you got in New York for the amount of money you have to spend. I felt bad for him.''
 So, last summer, Mr. Hsieh told a college friend, GieFaan Kim, an agent with the Bracha Group at Prudential Douglas Elliman, that he wanted to buy a one-bedroom in a luxury high-rise building for no more than $700,000. It had to be in Midtown, not too far east or west. 
 He considered a $650,000 one-bedroom co-op on Fifth Avenue and West 35th Street, with a 300-square-foot terrace that, to his delight, had a view of the Empire State Building. Upon reflection, however, he realized he had no use for a terrace. ''I doubted I would be sunning myself that often,'' he said. ''By the time I got home, it would be nighttime.'' And the maintenance seemed absurdly high -- more than $2,500 a month.
 They visited some one-bedroom condominiums at the Orion on West 42nd Street. Mr. Hsieh fell in love with the building and its many amenities, especially the fitness center by La Palestra, which is open until 11 p.m. on weekdays.
 ''I am a gym fanatic,'' Mr. Hsieh said. ''If I am not at work, I am working out or hanging out with friends.'' His gym, Crunch Fitness, closed at 10 p.m., leaving him little time there if he worked late.
 At the Orion, the units he could afford were on low floors, with pedestrian views. Mr. Hsieh said he had the impression as he was looking late last year that the market was still going up. ''There were other units that got picked up quickly,'' he said. ''I felt like I had to hurry.''
 So he called his brother. ''He is my personal counsel, the guy I go to when I have problems,'' Mr. Hsieh said. ''He said if I was going to buy a place, I had to be crazy about it.''
 His brother flew in from Chicago in late winter to help with the hunt. Mr. Kim took them to see the one-bedroom condos at 212 East 47th Street, which was being converted from a rental building. The fitness center was also by La Palestra.
 Walking by a two-bedroom, they peeked inside. ''I was, like, wow, this is substantially more spacious,'' Mr. Hsieh said. It was $950,000, with common charges of less than $800. He could have a whole room as a study.
 ''My entire life, I have had my desk in my bedroom,'' Mr. Hsieh said, ''and I realized I wasn't sleeping well because I always had school or work on my mind. It was like taking it to bed with me, like a psychological thing.''
 The three-bedroom was nicer still. 
 ''From there it kind of snowballed into a whole different game,'' Mr. Kim said. ''They were on the phone with their mother in California upping their budget every half hour. They were considering a three-bedroom for $1.425 million, and I definitely didn't expect it because it was a big jump.''
 The Hsiehs decided the entire family would finance the apartment, thereby allowing for a much bigger place.
 So the brothers went to see two-bedrooms at the Orion. When they walked into a 43rd-floor unit that faced both north and east, ''it took my breath away,'' Mr. Hsieh said.
 His family favored a two-bedroom at 212 East 47th Street, assuming property values would only rise with the arrival of the Second Avenue subway. ''It was a two-bedroom for under $1 million,'' Dr. Hsieh said. ''How can you argue against this?''
 But Mr. Hsieh loved the Orion. ''I was fighting an uphill battle and it became really painful,'' he said. ''It was like an episode of 'Family Feud' with us going back and forth.''
 In the end, Dr. Hsieh said, ''I could see in Richard's eyes there was no other place that was home for him.'' So the family agreed to buy the apartment at the Orion together for $1.55 million. Common charges and taxes are around $1,000 a month.
 The process went badly. Their first mortgage broker was uncooperative. Their lawyer called it the most troublesome deal he had ever transacted.
 When the Hsiehs finally closed in July, it was with great relief, ''like we ended an episode of 'The Twilight Zone,' '' Dr. Hsieh said. ''The emotional drain of the purchase deal was excruciating.''
 Now, with those difficulties behind them, ''it is home sweet home,'' Mr. Hsieh said. ''It is everything I hoped for. I love being in the center of things.'' 
 He especially relishes the view to the east at night, bright with the colorful lights of Times Square.
 On weekends, when he has time, he avails himself of the free breakfast in the lounge. He has resumed swimming, which he gave up after high school because it was hard to find a pool. He enjoys running on the treadmill more than ever, because of the panoramic city view. 
 ''You are on top of the world and you feel more motivated,'' he said. ''I could run for an hour and the time flies by.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A one-bedroom on Fifth Avenue had a big terrace, and high monthly maintenance.
A building at 212 East 47th Street offered two- and three-bedroom condominiums.
The Orion, at West 42nd Street, had lots of amenities, like a gymwith late hours.
Richard Hsieh relishes his views at night, bright with the lights of Times Square. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BOTTOM RIGHT, TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (75%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (64%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (62%); NEUROSCIENCE (62%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



185 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; THE HOMELESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: County Takes Tough Stance on Shelters

BYLINE: By TIM MURPHY

 BODY:
WHITE PLAINS
 RAVEN-HAIRED and rail-thin, Adriana Gaiser wore a gold necklace and hoop earrings. They seemed almost like marks of proud defiance, given the straits she was in.
 At 43, Ms. Gaiser, an illegal immigrant who came to the United States from Colombia seven years ago, finds herself unemployed (she used to be a housekeeper in Rye), homeless (she shared an apartment with her boyfriend until they were evicted) and without treatment for cancer (she received the diagnosis four years ago). It's either lymphoma or leukemia, she's not sure which, but her legs are covered with bruises.
 ''When someone touches me, I blood,'' she said, in uneven English. ''I've lost 70 pounds.'' She pointed to her arm. ''Day by day, I'm yellow, yellow, yellow.''
 Until early August, she could sleep in a women's shelter inside Grace Church, run by Grace Church Community Center with county funds. The church is a major provider of services for the homeless in White Plains, with a daytime outreach and drop-in center where Ms. Gaiser was interviewed. 
 But a month ago, the lives of Ms. Gaiser and about 70 to 80 homeless people in and around the city were upended when the county executive, Andrew J. Spano, ordered the closing of a 43-bed men's shelter that had opened early last year in the basement of a county office building at 85 Court Street. Susan Tolchin, Mr. Spano's deputy, said the county was bowing to pressure from the city.
 In addition, the county decreed that the men who had stayed there -- and homeless men and women like them who remain outside the county's conventional shelter system -- could no longer stay at the women's shelter or at two others in the city. 
 Paul Anderson-Winchell, executive director of the Grace Church group, said that it was defying the county's order by offering shelter to about 10 people, particularly women and the chronically ill, including Ms. Gaiser. ''We felt they were too at-risk to leave on the streets,'' he said.
 Kevin Mahon, the county social services commissioner, said that the group was flouting the county's ban but that he would not pull the group's funding because of it. ''He knows that he's not supposed to take drop-ins,'' he said of Mr. Anderson-Winchell.
 The decree has heightened longstanding tensions between White Plains and the county over the issue of homeless men and women who can't or won't enter the shelter system, which offers a place to sleep, counseling, help finding permanent housing and other services. 
 Some homeless people choose not to join because doing so requires them to participate in drug-treatment programs and to turn over a substantial portion of their income from jobs or public benefits. Others, like Ms. Gaiser, are barred because they lack legal identification.
 Since the decree, about 40 of these so-called hard-core homeless have been guided into the conventional system, according to Grace Church workers and county social-service officials. But the rest -- many substance-addicted, mentally ill or both -- are still unaccounted for, sleeping in parks, garages, at friends' homes or wherever they can.
 ''We think there's a good percentage of those folks who eventually are going to be either victims or will hurt somebody because they're not on meds,'' Mr. Anderson-Winchell said.
 Many have been drifting into two drop-in shelters in Yonkers, as well as onto streets downtown, said David Simpson, a spokesman for Mayor Philip A. Amicone. ''It's become a real problem,'' Mr. Simpson said, adding that the shelters in Yonkers were already filled to capacity.
 The closing of the White Plains men's shelter comes two summers after the fatal stabbing of a legal secretary in a downtown parking garage by a mentally ill homeless man, Phillip Grant, who confessed to the crime and is in prison. Mr. Grant slept at the shelter when it was at the Westchester County Airport in Purchase. 
 After the murder, Mayor Joseph Delfino of White Plains threatened to sue the county for dropping off shelter residents downtown every morning, leaving the men to seek services like those offered by the Grace Church group or to loiter around town until being bused back nightly to the airport.
 Then, early last year, Mr. Spano moved the shelter to Court Street in White Plains, a few blocks from a new Main Street retail-residential strip and next door to Mulino's, a popular, Italian restaurant. Business owners protested and sued the county. Mr. Delfino, a Republican, decried the move, calling it retribution from Mr. Spano, a Democrat, for threatening to sue. 
 Ms. Tolchin denied that charge last month, saying that the airport site, open for 13 years, had always been temporary. County attempts to relocate the Court Street site to a more outlying part of the city, or to nearby Hawthorne, fell apart under opposition.
 Then came the announcement, early last month, that the Court Street site would close with no replacement lined up. Ms. Tolchin said that the county finally bowed to pressure from the city. But Deputy Mayor Paul Wood of White Plains said that the city never wanted to close the site without a replacement. ''How could they just close the door on 60 people?'' he asked. (Mr. Delfino called for the immediate closing of the shelter last year, but the city's Common Council voted it down.)
 With little communication between county, city and advocates since the shutdown, it is unclear when, or even if, a new site will emerge in White Plains for people outside the conventional system. 
 Ms. Tolchin said that when the weather gets cold the county plans to open ''warming centers,'' where people could sit in a chair overnight. 
 Mr. Anderson-Winchell says that's not enough. ''Giving people a chair so that they don't freeze is certainly not meeting our obligation to society,'' he said. He said the county should at a minimum allow his group to resume giving people outside the system empty beds at shelters.
 As for Ms. Gaiser, she said that before the Grace Church group started slipping her in its back door, she slept on the streets. ''Maybe the police will catch me again,'' she said. She showed a ticket, dated the night before and marked ''criminal trespass,'' that she said she got from a police officer who found her sleeping on a box in the parking facility at The Westchester, a mall downtown.
 ''It's not easy for a man,'' she said of her situation, ''but for a lady, it's really difficult.''
 Nearby, in front of the county building on Court Street where the shelter had been, some passers-by said they remembered homeless people congregating outside. 
 ''Did they close it?'' asked Hyacinth Williams, a White Plains resident who works at a nearby hospital. ''Don't you think they should have found some place else for them before they did that? Nobody living on the street is safe.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN FLUX: New rules affect a White Plains shelter, right, where Marta Carrera, below, and Adriana Gaiser, bottom, met with the homeless advocate Paul Anderson- Winchell, on right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE M. GUTIERREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg.6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (88%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); ONCOLOGY (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (76%); EVICTION (76%); LEUKEMIA (76%); CANCER (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); LYMPHOMA (70%); RELIGION (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



186 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 0; Automobiles; MOTORING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Wait a Minute. My Parking Meter Is Calling.

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y.
 PARKING meters have been objects of scorn almost from the time they were introduced in the 1930s. Paul Newman drove that point home in the opening scene of ''Cool Hand Luke,'' when he cut off the heads of a string of meters.
 Part of people's antipathy toward them is that they are often cumbersome to use. Drivers need handfuls of coins, a good idea of how long they need to park and faith that they have read traffic signs correctly so they will not get a ticket. Arguing your case in traffic court is no joy, either. 
 But the Photo Violation Technologies Corporation, a start-up from Vancouver, British Columbia, has found a solution that may please both drivers and local governments. The company is testing meters that accept coins, bills and some credit cards, so that drivers can avoid having to feed the meter and stay as long as they like. The machines, however, don't make change.
 If drivers want to use cash, the meters, which connect to a wireless network, can send text messages to the drivers' cellphones to remind them to add more money.
 The meters also communicate with traffic officials who can track which meters are being used and which ones need to be ticketed and serviced. To ensure that drivers do not skip out without paying, sensors the size of hockey pucks buried in the asphalt detect when cars pull in. A camera inside the meter takes pictures of license plates to help with enforcement.
 Fred Mitschele, the founder and chief executive of Photo Violation, developed the meters after years of frustration with street parking.
 ''I'd always be stressed out that I didn't have enough coins, and I'd be in meetings and have to run out,'' he said.
 Mr. Mitschele's idea was to make it easy for drivers to pay with a credit card so they would not have to worry about how long they parked, while simultaneously helping cities generate more money. Drivers who return to their cars up to 30 minutes after their meters expire can pay the difference to avoid a fine. If they exceed that grace period, they can pay the fine on the spot with a credit card or cash and receive a discount.
 This can help cities reduce their legions of parking enforcement officers who troll the streets looking for cars to ticket. The meters can also bolster revenue and, if parking rates are set high enough, nudge drivers out of their cars and onto trains and buses.
 Mr. Mitschele said cities could make their money back on the meters, which cost $5,000, in six months. They are being tested in Vancouver, San Francisco and here in Niagara Falls, where 96 of them were turned on last month (although the wireless feature hasn't been activated yet).
 The city has had no meters for more than two decades and installed them to raise revenue. So far, drivers have used cash 55 percent of the time and credit cards for the rest. The city turns off the meters, which are powered by two small solar panels, near churches on Sunday mornings, and the ones in front of the Starbucks come with 30 minutes of free parking courtesy of the city ''so people can get out and get a latte,'' said Ralph F. Aversa, the city's director of economic development. 
 He said the meters would help free up city employees. ''The police can now concentrate on other aspects,'' he said, adding that about 65 percent of the meters are being used eight hours a day. The meters could generate $150,000 a year, Mr. Aversa estimated. After the trial period ends in December, he said the city might lease the meters from Photo Violation or form a revenue sharing agreement.
 The meters are just one example of how telecommunications are increasingly being integrated into toll and fee collection. E-ZPass, for instance, relies on radio frequency tags, cameras and networks to transmit data.
 But city governments, by being able to monitor their meters more easily, may also start charging for parking in the evenings and on weekends, times when it had been free. Municipalities could also charge down to the minute so that parkers do not pay for time they do not use.
 ''It has a lot of potential as long as the cities don't get greedy and keep ramping the cost up,'' said David Alexander, an analyst at ABI Research of Oyster Bay, N.Y. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FEED ME: Fred Mitschele with his high-tech meter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING OFFENSES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (69%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (67%); TEXT MESSAGING (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (87%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



187 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Guessing The Size of A Rate Cut

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
AN exceptionally weak employment report has left little doubt on Wall Street that interest rates will be cut at the Federal Reserve meeting on Sept. 18. A light economic calendar this week should provide traders with an ideal opportunity to speculate about how big the cut is likely to be. 
 ''It's going to be kind of an odd week,'' said Robert B. MacIntosh, chief economist at Eaton Vance, the fund manager in Boston. ''People are going to be reluctant to do a lot because of the Fed meeting.''
 They did a lot on Friday, when the Labor Department announced that an economy that was supposed to have added more than 100,000 net jobs in August lost 4,000 instead. That blindsided the stock market, which fell sharply from the start of trading.
 The grim report also solidified expectations of a cut in the crucial federal funds rate. A Bloomberg News poll of economists predicts a quarter-point move, to 5 percent.
 Mr. MacIntosh had placed the odds of a cut at slightly better than even, but the jobs data, which included downward revisions for earlier months, persuaded him not only that a cut was in store but that it might be half a percentage point.
 ''They may do a shocking one-time, 50-basis-point cut,'' he said, using the term for hundredths of a percentage point. ''You can make a case either way; 25 basis points may not be enough.''
 One report this week that may cause traders to tweak their estimate of the size of any cut focuses on retail sales in August. The report, on Friday, may provide a glimpse into whether setbacks in the housing market are spreading through the economy. The Bloomberg poll predicts a 0.5 percent gain, or 0.2 percent if car sales are excluded.
 One piece of information that usually comes and goes with little effect on stock and bond prices is the weekly number of claims for unemployment insurance, announced on Thursdays. This week may be different, Mr. MacIntosh said, because an increase would make this the sixth week of rising claims in seven. That would be in line with the jobs figures issued on Friday. 
 With the economy's ability to create jobs suddenly in doubt, he added, ''this week may be more interesting than I thought it was going to be.''
 DATA WATCH A calm Friday may await traders, at least after the retail sales figures are released. Reports later in the morning on consumer confidence and indicators of manufacturing activity, capacity utilization and industrial production are forecast in the Bloomberg poll to show little or no change from their previous readings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); RETAIL SALES (87%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (63%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



188 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
Whether to Wear That Salary Cap
 To the Editor:
 In his review of ''Supercapitalism,'' the new book by Robert B. Reich, Stephen Kotkin suggests a cap on the compensation of chief executives, based on a multiple of the pay of their lower-level employees (''Dangers of a Turbocharged Economy,'' Off the Shelf, Sept. 2). 
 Such a mandate would not work; it would only motivate the senior executives to outsource their company's lower-level work and to limit the company payroll to only the high-level, highest-paying jobs. That wouldn't address the inequity issue and would result in still higher pay for the top jobs. 
 Ray Nord
 Stamford, Conn., Sept. 4
 A Siesta, Sometimes
 To the Editor:
 Re ''That Yawn After Lunch Is Perfectly Normal'' (Career Couch, Aug. 19), which reminded American workers that they don't work in Spain, ''where siestas are part of culture'':
 Large multinational companies, which usually have offices in the larger cities in Spain, have gradually moved away from the two-hour lunch, while many small shops and, to a certain extent, large Spanish companies still carry on with the ''tradition.'' This is sometimes a problem for the employees, as they live too far from the office to drive home, eat lunch and come back on time in rush-hour-type traffic. Some exercise, but most just linger at a restaurant or a park until it's time to go back to work.
 Other common practices include the summer work shift, in which people come in early during the hottest months -- say, 8 a.m. instead of 9 to 9:30 -- and work through to 3:30 p.m. and then go home. 
 There has been talk of switching to a more European schedule, with lunch around noon, rather than 2:30, but I just don't see it happening anytime soon. 
 Luis Vivanco
 Madrid, Aug. 20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); OUTSOURCING (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) SPAIN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



189 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Peeking Into Cubicles to Find A Wealth of Tech Workers

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
New York is a major player in many realms, but when it comes to high technology, it is often dismissed as minor league. An article in Popular Science magazine in 2005, for example, rated New York 39th among high-tech cities, behind Milwaukee (31st). Minneapolis/St. Paul topped the list.
 But a new report says that New York actually has more high-tech workers than meccas like Silicon Valley and Seattle, and that it is just a matter knowing where to look for them. 
 The report, ''Buried Treasure: New York's Hidden Technology Sector,'' does something that research institutes and magazines that rate cities rarely do: Along with counting heads at innovation leaders with outposts in Manhattan, like Google, Microsoft and I.B.M., it counts the high-tech workers it says are ''embedded'' in other sectors, like research and development departments at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Tiffany & Company. 
 Do the math that way, and the New York Metropolitan Statistical Area, which covers southern New York and northern New Jersey, has nearly 620,000 technology workers, two and a half times as many as Silicon Valley and nearly twice as many as Boston.
 ''This is not a city where you drive down the street and see buildings with technology firms' names on them,'' said Sara Garretson, president of the Industrial and Technology Assistance Corporation, a nonprofit economic development organization that commissioned the study, which was conducted by Mt. Auburn Associates and Bayer Consulting. ''We may have Google with 400 jobs, but they're in a building with no signage.''
 But if Google's workers are low-profile, the Web designers and systems analysts tucked into cubicles at financial services companies like American Express, Goldman Sachs or JPMorgan Chase are nearly invisible. Still, Ms. Garretson said that ''a thread that runs through all those jobs is that they have specific skill sets and play specific roles in our companies, and they should be considered part of our technology sector.''
 For the study, which is to be released tomorrow, researchers surveyed executives at more than 180 New York companies that rely heavily on technology. The 47-page report recommends steps to foster growth, like creating an Office of Science and Technology Enterprises within the mayor's office and starting a ''branding'' effort to attract talent and financing to start-ups.
 But such image campaigns are ''gimmicky,'' said Russell Hancock, chief executive of Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network, a nonprofit regional planning group based in San Jose, Calif. 
 ''We're the only place in the world that's not trying to become Silicon Valley,'' said Mr. Hancock, who pointed out that a region in Ireland calls itself the Silicon Bog, and that before the dot-com bubble burst in 2000, a section of Lower Manhattan was sometimes called Silicon Alley. He added that Silicon Valley made it possible for New York to even try to achieve high-tech superiority. 
 ''The technology we've invented here has introduced mobility to the work force, so that with a laptop and a phone you can work anywhere,'' Mr. Hancock said. He is not, however, relinquishing the notion that his region -- headquarters to companies like Hewlett-Packard, Apple and Yahoo -- reigns supreme. 
 ''Place still matters,'' he said. ''What's in the Silicon Valley is a critical mass, just this dense, fibrous network of innovators, of technology people bumping into each other like molecules in a gas.''
 Money matters, too. In the first half of this year, $4.9 billion was invested in high-tech firms in Silicon Valley, compared with $828 million in the New York region, according to data published by PricewaterhouseCoopers and the National Venture Capital Association. More than a quarter of the world's venture capital is invested in Silicon Valley.
 Ms. Garretson said prospective investors often look askance at technology start-ups that choose to operate in New York.
 ''Certainly there are firms here who, when venture capitalists come in, are advised to go to a community that might have a lower cost base or be perceived to be more of a center for a particular industry,'' Ms. Garretson said. ''The venture capitalists say, 'Why don't you move to Boston?' Or, 'Maybe you need to be in California because that's where the action is.' What we want to say is, 'Hey, the action is here.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (86%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CANCER (69%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (63%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); MAYORS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); TIFFANY & CO (69%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%); TIF (NYSE) (69%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (53%); GS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (69%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (69%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



190 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Retired From Coaching, Cowher Plays His Own Tune

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Bill Cowher appeared at ease, nary a sign of that familiar intense look he wore on the sideline during 15 years as the coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers.
 Suddenly, and for the only time during an interview Tuesday, his body language changed briefly while he spoke of a new endeavor -- playing the piano.
 It seems his teacher, Kim Russ, is pretty demanding. 
 ''You've got to practice three or four times a week,'' Cowher said. ''She can tell when I don't. She doesn't make me run laps or anything, but she gets on me pretty good if I don't practice enough.
 ''I walk out of there, my back's hurting, my neck's knotted up and my fingers are really sore. I told her I had a bad pinkie, she said she wanted to hear results -- she doesn't want excuses.''
 Ah, the rigors of retirement.
 Actually, Cowher said he was having a great time, and chuckled about a piano teacher getting on him perhaps the same way he got on his players. He said he wanted to learn how to play the piano for years, but did not have time in a profession he remembered as all-encompassing.
 ''I don't miss it,'' he said. ''I find myself sleeping better. You're not as stress-driven. You learn to cope being a coach. You don't realize it when you're in the middle of it.''
 Although he is only 50, Cowher insists he does not plan to coach again, but knows better than to close the door.
 ''In all honesty, I hope I don't coach again,'' said Cowher, who was in Los Angeles to promote DirecTV's N.F.L. Sunday Ticket. ''I have no plans to do it. I don't ever want to say never. I don't want to be a hypocrite. But I have no plans to coach again and I can honestly say I don't see it happening in the near future.''
 Cowher left the Steelers in January with a long list of accomplishments that could land him in the Hall of Fame someday: a 161-99-1 record, 2 Super Bowl appearances with 1 championship, 6 American Football Conference championship game appearances and 10 playoff berths.
 He did not stay unemployed long, quickly landing a job with CBS as a studio analyst, a job that has enabled him to spend more time checking out the entire N.F.L. before the start of a season than he ever had while coaching the Steelers.
 ''I'm looking forward to the start of the season, doing the CBS thing,'' he said. ''It's still a chance to be part of the game. I spent the Labor Day weekend with my family at the beach. I'm going to move my girls to Princeton next week.
 ''You can always go back to coaching. You can't go back to spending time with your family.''
 And that, Cowher said, was the determining factor in his leaving a job he no doubt could have held for many years, if not the rest of his coaching life.
 ''After last year, I just thought it was time,'' he said. ''I wanted to spend more time with my family, smell the roses. Balance is really important. It wasn't so much the coaching, it was the fish bowl you live in.''
 Cowher said while he was passionate about his job and loved the competition involved in coaching, he was far less intense when he was away from it all.
 ''You can't be like that all the time,'' he said. ''I never brought my job to my house, I never brought my house to the job. That's why I was able to sustain it all that time.''
 Cowher and his wife, Kaye, have two daughters at Princeton -- Meagan and Lauren. And their youngest daughter, Lindsay, is a junior in high school in Raleigh, N.C.
 He said if the expected offers were made, it will be flattering, but there is no way he will consider coaching before Lindsay finishes high school.
 ''I'm not going to walk out of her life,'' he said. ''It's nice to have options. It's hard to say what the future holds. I don't have any long-term plans.''
 As a studio analyst, Cowher will be watching several games at once before offering his opinions. And he will be a Steelers fan.
 ''You don't work for people like the Rooneys and at a place like that for 15 years and not pull for them,'' he said. ''A lot of the coaches and players I worked with are still there. I'll always pull for them, but objectively. I'm going to analyze them like anybody else.''
 Then, after a brief pause, Cowher said with a smile, ''Like I was analyzed for the last 15 years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (87%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



191 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 4896 words

HEADLINE: Can Lobbyists Stop the War?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CROWLEY. 
Michael Crowley is a senior editor at The New Republic.

 BODY:
One weekday morning in mid-July, perhaps two dozen liberal organizers gathered around a conference table in an office building on Washington's K Street. Their mission: American withdrawal from Iraq. In one sense, the location was unlikely; K Street is a symbolic address, like Madison Avenue or Fleet Street, in this case representing the capital's thriving industry of trade associations and corporate lobbyists. Yet this was a group of mostly young progressives drawing meager salaries who had no ties to corporate America. Still, the venue was not inappropriate. Those arranged around the table represented the new face of the antiwar movement -- now one of Washington's most vigorous single-issue lobbies.
 The purpose of the meeting was the daily conference call conducted by Americans Against Escalation in Iraq, a coalition of activists, policy outfits and labor unions brought together this year by MoveOn.org, the 3.4-million-member-strong liberal advocacy group, which was convinced that Democrats on Capitol Hill needed help to end the war. By the end of this month, Americans Against Escalation will have spent $12 million on a combination of grass-roots organizing, polling and television advertisements in order to get the United States out of Iraq. 
 Tom Matzzie, the group's campaign manager, was in charge. Only 32 years old, Matzzie is a rising star of the resurgent progressive movement. Neither bohemian nor slick technocrat, Matzzie is an Italian-American who grew up in Mount Lebanon, a middle-class suburb of Pittsburgh. Apart from his attire -- on this day, a pink dress shirt and pin-striped suit pants -- he wouldn't seem out of place at a Steelers tailgate party; he's heavyset, bearded and his terse speech can have a gruff edge. He is also a sharp political analyst with a gift for spin and broad strategic thought. When I first met him he illustrated his idea of how to force Republicans to end the war by sketching into my notebook a diagram of something called Bernoulli's principle, which describes the relationship between pressure and speed in the movement of fluids.
 An A.A.E.I. staff member began the conference call, which connects the group with advisors and activists around town and around the country, by summarizing the morning's key war-related headlines. A suicide bombing in Kirkuk that left 85 people dead drew an audible sigh from somewhere in the room. Then the conversation moved to the war votes scheduled in the Senate that day, including an amendment to a military spending bill sponsored by John Cornyn, a Republican from Texas, resolving that America won't allow Iraq to become a failed state and a haven for terrorists.
 ''We'd better make sure they get less than 50 votes, gang,'' said Robert Creamer, a longtime organizer on behalf of progressive causes.
 ''It's the R.N.C.'s talking points,'' Matzzie added, describing the Cornyn amendment. ''I called over there and said, 'You guys better have a strategy on this.' '' By ''there,'' Matzzie meant the offices of Democratic leaders on Capitol Hill, with which he or his staff communicates on a near-daily basis; Matzzie has personal relationships with several senior Democratic members of Congress.
 Next, someone raised the name of Jim Walsh, a Republican congressman from New York, arguing that A.A.E.I. should inflict more political pain on him for his refusal to support timelines for withdrawing troops from Iraq. ''We should see if we can make him a poster child,'' the staff member said.
 ''O.K.,'' Matzzie replied. ''I'll see if I can drum up some money for that.''
 Then someone else chimed in with a report from a moderate Republican congressman who had recently visited the White House to appeal for a change of course in the war: ''He said he's met with Bush. He pointed to his black leather chair and said, 'It's like talking to the chair and asking the leather to come off.' ''
 While some antiwar groups have castigated Democrats for not pushing more boldly to end the war -- as has A.A.E.I. at times -- Matzzie's strategy of late stresses Democratic unity and driving a wedge between Republicans and President Bush. This was the thinking behind A.A.E.I.'s ''Iraq Summer,'' a three-month campaign that focused on 40 Republicans in Congress in more than a dozen states, including prominent senators like the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, about whom A.A.E.I. ran television ads saying he had voted 15 times to support ''Bush's war.'' As long as George Bush has a willingness to wield vetoes and stubborn allies in Congress to uphold them, Matzzie reasons, no legislation will get America out of Iraq. The war will only end, Matzzie told me, if a group of Republicans ''walks down to the White House and says, 'You have got to get us out of this mess.' ''
 That's what Matzzie and his colleagues are hoping will happen in the coming weeks, when Congress and the White House face off over the war. Later this week the American commander in Iraq, Gen. David Petraeus, and the United States ambassador to Iraq, Ryan Crocker, are expected to testify before Congress on political and military progress in Iraq since Bush decided in January to send more than 20,000 additional troops there in what has come to be called the surge. After hearing from Petraeus and Crocker, Democrats in Congress may try to legislate timelines for the withdrawal of American troops, something Bush has promised to veto. As the White House shifts its public-relations machine into high gear to sustain a heavy troop presence into at least next year, A.A.E.I. sees itself as the most important opposition to that plan. Hence the group spent the summer furiously trying to spin the national media in order to shape what Matzzie calls ''the narrative'' about the troop surge, and last week it began running more than a million dollars' worth of television ads pressuring Republicans to abandon Bush and his effort to keep fighting the war. In a sign that this work is not going unnoticed, the Republican National Committee recently issued a press release depicting A.A.E.I. as a radical left-wing cartel ''advocating surrender in Iraq.''
 The playbook for opposing a war has changed markedly since the street-protest ethos of the anti-Vietnam movement. Tie-dyed shirts and flowers have been replaced by oxfords and BlackBerries. Politicians are as likely to be lobbied politely as berated. And instead of a freewheeling circus managed from college campuses and coffee houses, the new antiwar movement is a multimillion-dollar operation run by media-savvy professionals. ''They are to the left what the N.R.A. is to the right,'' says a Democratic strategist with close ties to the party's congressional leadership. ''They're very effective in turning up the volume and demanding a response.''
 Matzzie put it this way to me: ''Last time [it] was done in the streets. People were concerned about civil society breaking down. You have to play in politics, which is something we do very explicitly.''
 Americans Against Escalation in Iraq was founded last winter. Democrats had won back Congress but, contrary to many liberals' assumptions that the war would end soon thereafter, President Bush responded with a plan to send even more troops to Iraq. Wes Boyd, the Berkeley-based millionaire who co-founded MoveOn, and Matzzie, who is its Washington director, were frustrated. ''We realized we needed a big campaign on the war because there was this mandate out of the election, but the Democratic majorities were thin and they hadn't been united on the war, ever,'' Matzzie says.
 Matzzie, who took undergraduate courses in peace studies at Notre Dame in the 1990s, joined MoveOn in 2005 after several years of working for liberal causes, including a stint as online mobilization director for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and four months devoted to John Kerry's presidential bid as his director of online organizing. At MoveOn, Matzzie helped spearhead the opposition that stymied Bush's proposed reform of Social Security. Last year he worked on behalf of Ned Lamont, who was seeking to unseat the pro-war Democrat-turned-Independent senator of Connecticut, Joe Lieberman.
 With Boyd's blessing, Matzzie convinced a large team of liberal activists to join Americans Against Escalation in Iraq, a new antiwar coalition that would, in his words, require ''the sort of effort that goes into a presidential campaign.'' The result is a kind of vast left-wing conspiracy. Matzzie convinced the Service Employees International Union to contribute its organizing power. Policy heft was provided by two liberal research firms: John Podesta's Center for American Progress and the National Security Network. The antiwar veterans group VoteVets.org offered public surrogates with moral authority. Other member organizations like Campaign for America's Future, Americans United for Change and a pre-existing coalition called Win Without War brought influence with the progressive grass roots. Two public relations firms provided media savvy. Matzzie also hired the prominent Democratic pollsters, Stan Greenberg and his daughter Anna. Financing came mainly from the coffers of MoveOn, with support from S.E.I.U. and individual donors whose identities Matzzie will not disclose. (The group's name was meant to rebrand the surge as an ''escalation,'' although Matzzie admits that, months later, the moniker has ''become a point of confusion.'')
 Matzzie's job is to draw on poll data, expert opinion and his own political cunning (along with that of others) to devise tactics that, he hopes, will push Washington politicians into ending the war. Shaping media coverage is ''a huge part of what we do. We're influencing the environment that the debate is taking place in.'' He went on to say: ''We also now have a huge ability to drive a counterpoint to the Bush administration. When they're out there saying there's progress, we're able to say, 'Look, this is the bloodiest summer, more Americans have died this summer than any since the war began, and Iraqis are dying at nearly double the pace of last year.' That wasn't happening before. Someone would say something and maybe Jon Stewart would make fun of it, but we didn't have a counterpoint. We do now. And it's integrated across the media. It's mainstream press, it's blogs, it's YouTube, and it's national and local.''
 Matzzie cites the example of John McCain's walk through a Baghdad market in April, which the senator from Arizona and Republican presidential candidate presented afterward as evidence of greatly improved security conditions. ''That's something we picked up on and turned into a big story,'' Matzzie says. ''We grabbed the photos'' -- showing McCain surrounded by a heavy military escort -- ''and we sent them around and we made sure everyone saw it.'' Embarrassed by the publicity, McCain was later forced to hedge his claims.
 Another more recent example is when Lt. Gen. Douglas E. Lute, the war czar for the White House, said one Friday in an interview on National Public Radio that he couldn't rule out the possibility of a future draft. One of Matzzie's deputies, a veteran Democratic campaign operative named Tara McGuinness, oversaw the quick creation of a video advertisement that night and warned her staff to be ready for an early conference call Saturday morning to make sure the press didn't miss it over a mid-August weekend. ''It was kind of a random N.P.R. story that didn't get much pickup until we started screaming about it,'' McGuinness says.
 A.A.E.I. doesn't work only through the media. Matzzie's team coordinates extensively with Democrats on Capitol Hill. Matzzie himself meets with Speaker Nancy Pelosi or Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, ''maybe once a month,'' he says, adding that he talks to their staffs ''once a day, or at least a couple times a week.'' (Senior Democratic aides sometimes even join A.A.E.I.'s conference calls.) This might entail discussions of political strategy or more substantive policy briefings by experts from A.A.E.I.'s member think tanks. Matzzie's BlackBerry was especially active this spring, when the new Democratic Congress had its first confrontation with Bush over the war's financing. The results, from A.A.E.I.'s perspective, were disappointing. After the White House, in February, requested about $100 billion for continued military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, staunch antiwar liberals in the House pushed back with a proposal for a total withdrawal of American troops by the end of the year. But Pelosi and Reid knew such a measure couldn't win a majority, or even a majority of Democrats. (Some liberals, along with conservatives, have genuine qualms about the moral and strategic implications of a sudden exit by the United States.) Instead, Pelosi, whose chamber acted first, embraced a plan to begin withdrawing troops in the summer of 2007, with a deadline of exiting Iraq by the end of summer in 2008.
 Many war opponents found the bill unacceptable -- they wanted the troops out now. A.A.E.I., which consults its member groups before taking public positions, at first remained neutral. But MoveOn publicly backed Pelosi and urged House liberals of the get-out-now persuasion to hold their tongues and support it, lest Pelosi suffer an embarrassing legislative defeat. Matzzie did his best to frame the debate, saying that even a protest vote against Pelosi's position was essentially ''a vote for a war without end.'' Progressives who favored a tougher antiwar approach didn't appreciate this; some accused Matzzie of having been co-opted by the party leaders with whom he frequently rubs elbows.
 Eventually, the timeline passed the House and Senate, barely, with the last-minute support of reluctant liberals. Bush then vetoed the bill and warned Congress to stop making ''political statements'' and send him a clean bill lest money run short for troop training and equipment. In the end, Bush got his way. With nowhere near the votes required to override his veto, and fearing that an extended battle with the White House might allow Bush to claim that funds for the troops had run out, Democrats ultimately approved his $100 billion request without timelines. The new Democratic Congress thus effectively enabled several more months of war. For many war opponents, this was precisely the blank check the Democrats had been elected to prevent.
 This time, Matzzie and A.A.E.I. denounced the outcome. (Pelosi, who, in a rare move, voted against the final bill, was spared.) Still, some war opponents on Capitol Hill complained that, had Matzzie and MoveOn demanded Pelosi and others take a tougher position from the outset, they would have enjoyed a stronger negotiating position in the second round, after Bush's veto. Matzzie ''could have been bolder,'' says Lynn Woolsey, a Democratic congresswoman from California and an ardent war opponent who has given more than 200 five-minute speeches in the House about the war, ''and we would be at a different place now.'' But Matzzie, who insists that Democratic unity is critical to pressuring Republicans, told me that opposing the speaker's strategy would have been counterproductive. ''That's not responsible,'' he says. ''Pelosi is one of the strongest antiwar voices in Congress. We need to make her feel confident and emboldened, not under siege.''
 For some of A.A.E.I.'s older members, their work is the continuation of something bigger, a movement that began in the 1960s but was temporarily knocked off course. ''I've been waiting for this moment for a long time,'' said a wiry, fast-talking New Yorker named Alan Charney. It was early June and Charney, the program director with the liberal grass-roots group USAction, was speaking onstage in a Baltimore auditorium at a training session for roughly 100 A.A.E.I. activists who would be dispatched across the country to stage rallies, protests and door-knocking campaigns against Republicans who back the war. ''The moment we're in can change the course of American history,'' he said. ''We can show that conservatives can never again be trusted to run the foreign policy of this nation.'' The very name ''Iraq Summer,'' Charney told the assembled activists -- nearly all of whom appeared to be under 30 -- was intended to echo the ''Vietnam Summer'' of 1967, ''and even hearkens back to the Freedom Summer in the South.''
 But while today's antiwar activists may draw inspiration from those times, they hardly seek to emulate the 1960s. Nor is that possible. There is no draft, taxes remain low and the economy has been fairly strong. For most Americans, the direct cost of the war amounts to a few more dollars at the gas pump. Nothing today compares to what Tom Hayden, the antiwar celebrity of the 60s, calls the ''existential dread'' of the draft.
 A.A.E.I. is far more integrated into the political and media establishments than the hippies ever were. ''They couldn't figure if they wanted to take their clothes off, smoke pot, burn the Capitol or end the war,'' Wiley Pearson, Matzzie's other deputy, says of the 1960s counterculture protesters. Pearson, who is 59, spent 22 years in the Marines before finding a second career promoting progressive causes. Matzzie says political and lifestyle radicalism was a gift to supporters of the Vietnam War that his allies will not give again. ''Nixon's strategy was to demonize his opponents,'' Matzzie says. ''Some of the politicians who are supporting the war want to be protested by fringe groups. We're not going to play that game -- we're not going to let them off the hook. We're going to put their own constituents in their faces.''
 Even those encounters rarely get too brusque. On a recent mid-August morning, a group of A.A.E.I. activists converged on Seton Hill University, not far from Pittsburgh. Their mission was to confront the state's senior Republican senator, Arlen Specter, at a town hall forum. Though Specter often breaks with his party and has expressed frustration with the war, he has refused to support Democratic timelines for troop withdrawal. After arriving two hours early to get good seats, A.A.E.I. activists peppered an irritated-looking Specter with questions about Iraq. ''When will you take a stand with our troops . . . against Bush and his endless war?'' one asked, to hearty applause. Later, a man in his 20s who said that he had marched all the way from Chicago asked Specter why he was supporting ''endless war.'' At the end, a woman handed Specter a giant check, made out to the United States Treasury, for $28.43 -- raised from a bake sale to offset military costs.
 But that was as radical as the protesters got. Specter said repeatedly that he would wait to hear from Petraeus and Crocker ''and then make a judgment.'' From the activists' perspective, this wasn't terribly satisfying. But no one interrupted or demanded a follow-up question. After Specter finished, a young A.A.E.I. worker waited patiently for her turn to meet the senator. When she did, she didn't hector him. She politely invited him to an upcoming A.A.E.I. rally. Specter genially promised to consider it and had a friendly aide take down the details.
 The Internet, not the street, not the campus, is the fundamental component of today's antiwar movement -- a force for organizing, raising money and influencing politicians and the media via blogs and e-mail messages. Earlier this year, MoveOn even staged a ''virtual march on Washington'' in which participants' phone calls to Congress were aggregated on an online map of the country. When A.A.E.I. was trying to settle on its position on Pelosi's Iraq bill last March, it conducted an online poll of its members. But Leslie Cagan, a political organizer since the Vietnam War who is now national coordinator of United for Peace and Justice -- a group unaffiliated with A.A.E.I. that has organized large antiwar marches -- wonders if all that bandwidth exacts a steep price. ''The Internet is a mixed blessing,'' Cagan says. ''It's a tremendous asset in terms of getting the word out, announcing activities, everything from meetings to mass mobilization. I also think it has, in a way that history will tell when we have more distance, undermined a little the more traditional approach to organizing, where you go and knock on doors and talk to people. . . . People think, 'Oh, well, I've signed a petition online so I've done my bit.' So I think a lot of us as organizers have become a little sloppy. We haven't put enough attention into talking to our neighbors, talking on the shopping line.''
 Although A.A.E.I. says turnout at its events has been consistently high, the crowds aren't always there. In Biddeford, a town in southern Maine, I joined Matzzie for an A.A.E.I. rally that was meant to pressure the state's moderate Republican senator, Susan Collins, to support a timeline for getting the troops out of Iraq. The former mill town is home to many Catholic swing voters vital to Collins. ''We're hitting her where it hurts to get her to change her mind,'' Matzzie told me. But only 35 or so people gathered in Biddeford that day, many of them senior citizens clearly not up for the hours of door-knocking that had been planned. ''Doesn't look like the hearty canvass type,'' Matzzie conceded. Meanwhile, Biddeford's downtown was nearly empty. A local resident wearing a MoveOn T-shirt lamented that more people weren't in the streets. Gesturing to her husband, she said: ''We feel like people are just at the mall. And we have to wake them up.'' The event did lead to a mention on the local CBS affiliate and a couple of tiny local newspaper articles, but that was all.
 Earlier this summer, A.A.E.I. and senior members of Congress were among those who organized an antiwar vigil outside the Capitol. The event was meant to showcase Democratic unity, but before long some angry attendees began heckling the Democratic leaders onstage, including Pelosi and Reid, about Congress's approval in the spring of Bush's request to finance the war. ''Stop the funding!'' someone bellowed. ''Stop giving them what they want!'' One furious man caused such a scene that Democrats onstage privately discussed bringing the rally to an abrupt end. Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan pleaded for calm, saying, ''Tonight is a night to be united, not divided!'' Matzzie, who'd been watching from the edge of the crowd, stepped forward and positioned his substantial frame between the loudest screamer and the stage, and eventually helped talk him down in a quiet voice.
 The episode captured a basic friction within the antiwar movement: Are Democrats trying hard enough to end the war -- and does applying pressure make them bolder, or does it simply anger and divide them? While A.A.E.I. is focused mostly on Republicans for now, others have taken another tack that has recently been on display outside Nancy Pelosi's red-brick house in San Francisco, where protesters staged a two-week hunger strike last month. They were members of Code Pink, a theatrical antiwar outfit with a mostly female membership known for turning up at committee hearings dressed from head to toe in pink (with the occasional plastic tiara) or storming congressional offices of Democrats and Republicans alike.
 Code Pink, which is not an A.A.E.I. member, has an office in Pelosi's home town of San Francisco, also home to the group's co-founder, a longtime activist in her 50s named Medea Benjamin. However much they might loathe George Bush and the Republicans, activists like Benjamin are furious that Democrats haven't done more to end the war. Pelosi, Benjamin says, ''should have come out swinging from the day she was named speaker and used the kind of talk we've been pushing, like, 'Funding the war is killing the troops.' And to show that if you really wanted to support the troops you would bring them home.'' Democratic leaders argue that their narrow majorities, which include several moderate members from conservative areas, limit their ability to pass more aggressive measures. So Benjamin and her allies want a different strategy altogether: they want Pelosi and Reid to use their power over the legislative agenda to deny Bush any additional financing for the war that does not mandate the removing of American forces from Iraq. ''She has the power to put something on the floor or not put something on the floor,'' Benjamin says of Pelosi. ''If George Bush vetoes a bill, she has the power to just not give him another one.''
 Matzzie, for his part, is far more interested in working with Democrats than against them. For that reason, A.A.E.I. has generally avoided getting involved in the Democratic presidential primaries. ''It's an easy way to split the coalition,'' Matzzie says, and fracture ''the unity we have in opposition to the Bush strategy.'' But Matzzie says groups in the A.A.E.I. coalition have, at times, encouraged their members to complain to Democratic candidates who go off-message about Iraq -- for instance, when Barack Obama warned Democrats last spring not to ''play chicken'' with American troops in their showdown with President Bush over war financing, or when Hillary Rodham Clinton recently conceded that new tactics were working in some areas. ''At key moments when people do unhelpful things, we let them know,'' Matzzie says.
 Any such brush-back pitches are just part of A.A.E.I.'s intensive effort to win a public debate with the Bush administration and its supporters. Over the next several weeks the fate of the war will be contested campaign-style, particularly given the arrival of Freedom's Watch, an independent new group co-founded by the former White House press secretary Ari Fleischer. Freedom's Watch plans to run $15 million in advertisements in support of a continued American military presence in Iraq. Even before summer's end, Matzzie and company were working to undermine the credibility of an upbeat progress report from Petraeus, who appears to oppose a substantial drawdown of troops in Iraq. ''Most of what we have to do will be done before he lands in Washington,'' Matzzie told me in late August. ''We have to frame his statements before he makes them. He's not Saint Petraeus -- he's General Petraeus.''
 That Petraeus was very much on A.A.E.I.'s radar was clear from another conference call I witnessed late last month. This time, Matzzie was running the show from a hotel room in Louisville -- part of a three-state tour he was making to check up on his outfit's field operation. He was pleased to learn that A.A.E.I.'s operatives in Kentucky were hounding Mitch McConnell at his private residence, forcing him to slip in though a back door rather than confront the protesters outside. One participant told Matzzie that her team had caught McConnell waiting for an elevator and peppered the captive senator with questions. ''You got that up on YouTube?'' Matzzie asked. (Yes, they had.) But the main topic of conversation was a story in that day's Washington Post reporting that Petraeus had ''softened'' judgments in a recent White House National Intelligence Estimate to reflect improved conditions on the ground in Iraq. The operatives saw a chance to bash the White House for distorting intelligence and to depict Petraeus as a calculated spinner. ''I'm gonna move it around like it's a big deal,'' said Brad Woodhouse, a progressive gadfly with Americans United for Change, an A.A.E.I. coalition member, who specializes in bombarding reporters with advocacy e-mails. ''This administration has a history of hyping intelligence, distorting intelligence -- ''
 ''Cherry picking!'' Matzzie chimed in.
 ''Cherry-picking intelligence! We may as well continue to knock down [Petraeus's] credibility as we move forward.''
 An hour later, a press release from Woodhouse arrived in my inbox: ''Not Again?!'' read the headline. ''Petraeus Alters N.I.E. to Hype Progress.''
 Matzzie remains skeptical, however, that the next round of congressional votes, expected in late September, will begin to wind down the war. And Democrats point out that they are still far from mustering the two-thirds majorities needed to override vetoes. So while the White House and Republicans could well agree to a partial drawdown of troops by the end of this year to defuse short-term political pressure -- Senator John Warner, the influential Republican from Virginia, last month proposed bringing some troops home by Christmas -- that would still leave tens of thousands of American soldiers caught in a civil war in a Muslim nation, as Matzzie is well aware.
 And so Matzzie intends to keep A.A.E.I. -- or something like it, maybe under a new name -- in business into 2008. To that end he recently hired a new fund-raiser, Shari Yost Gold, who held the same job in 2004 for America Coming Together, a liberal campaign organization that raised huge sums in the 2004 campaign cycle. For the last several months A.A.E.I. has been pressuring politicians to change their votes on the war. But if that doesn't yield results, Matzzie says, the goal becomes influencing voters directly, with an eye to the elections in 2008. ''We're not going away,'' he told me. ''At some point, when the legislative process breaks down completely, which seems more and more likely, this is just political, and this is about beating the people who keep the war going in the next election. Period.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Battle Stations Tom Matzzie, the campaign manager of Americans Against Escalation in Iraq, with Sara Choate, a field organizer, at a town hall meeting at Bellarmine University in Louisville, Ky., Aug. 28.
 War Torn Supporters of the Iraq War are on the left, those in favor of a quick end to the war on the right in Louisville, Ky., Aug. 28. (Photograph by Mark Peterson/Redux, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); APPROPRIATIONS (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (51%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%)

PERSON: JOHN CORNYN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



192 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 0; Automobiles; HANDLEBARS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Updating a Dual-Purpose Stalwart

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
FAIRBANKS, Alaska
 ON a solo ride through the wilds of central Alaska three years ago, I discovered a worrisome side effect of the sputtering exhaust noise produced by the Kawasaki KLR650's engine: it seemed to enrage bears.
 So you can understand why, returning to Alaska this summer, I was relieved to learn that the 2008 KLR650 has a smoother, quieter engine. I'm in no hurry, however, to find out whether the bears agree. 
 Here at the northernmost Kawasaki dealership in the world, the Alaska Fun Center, the single-cylinder KLR650 has been a reliable seller since it was introduced two decades ago. It has sold so steadily that Kawasaki essentially took it for granted, making few changes through the years. Its stale styling and technical minimalism notwithstanding, the bike developed a cult following; in fact, the KLR650's sales have risen as the popularity of the dual-purpose segment mushroomed.
 Few bikes have proved more rugged or reliable than the trusty KLR. Agile and forgiving on pavement -- a trait especially appreciated on poorly maintained rural roads -- it will also chug up the highest mountain trails, ford any stream, follow any rainbow -- oh wait, that's a show tune, isn't it? Anyway, the KLR650 has a reputation for being unstoppable in these parts.
 ''We had a guy come through here the other day with an old one, with 110,000 miles on it,'' Randy Fletcher, an employee at Alaska Fun Center, told me. ''He had ridden it from Tierra del Fuego, he said, and was headed to Prudhoe Bay. Thought it would be smart to put new tires on it before he headed up there.''
 It's rather mind-boggling, in riding the KLR650, to think one cylinder is all that keeps the bike moving through places where a breakdown is not an option, at least not a survivable one. Critics have dinged Kawasaki for continuing to cling to the ancient carbureted 651 cc engine, but it's difficult to find fault with its durability. 
 For 2008, however, Kawasaki finally modernized it, for reasons that include a need to hold its exhaust emissions to socially responsible levels; a catalytic converter has been added. At the same time, the ignition timing was tweaked to improve throttle response and the camshafts revised for better high-r.p.m. performance. The cylinder head has been redesigned for greater low-end torque. The new KLR has greatly improved braking (especially up front, which got a larger-diameter disc), an area that's been a chronic KLR weakness. The front fork legs are stiffer, and though they allow slightly less suspension travel, the ride is more composed on pavement. At the rear, stiffer springs, a new aluminum swingarm and a redesigned linkage for the suspension all benefit on-road behavior, though there is now an inch less ground clearance. 
 Visually, the KLR650 is transformed from a toad to something more princely by its sleek new bodywork, which does a better job of deflecting the wind blast away from the rider. Unfortunately, the spiffy styling treatment carries a potential penalty: dropping an attractive new KLR, something that can easily happen when it's used as the maker intended, will be more expensive than dumping an old ugly one.
 Other changes: a larger rear luggage rack; a cushier, more sculptured seat; a high-output alternator; a radiator with more cooling area; and dual headlights. 
 What's unchanged? The steel trellis frame, five-speed transmission, 35-inch seat height and the 1987-spec tires.
 Also unchanged is its 6.1-gallon fuel tank, which, combined with 50 mile-per-gallon fuel economy, can mean up to 300 miles between fill-ups. Still, there's no excuse for having no fuel gauge, especially since the instrumentation has otherwise been upgraded for '08.
 In all, Kawasaki says that the KLR650 got 50 improvements. Still, the new KLR is slower, heavier (it tops 400 pounds with a full tank of gas) and less capable off-road than the old one. While it may be a more agreeable mount on-road, I think its adventure quotient has suffered somewhat.
 But over all this is a more stable and far safer KLR, with an agreeable price of $5,349. It's a long overdue update of a much-loved bike that time -- or actually Kawasaki -- seemed to have forgotten.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VOTING AGE: The KLR650 has been given its biggest upgrade in two decades.
 HAULER: The luggage rack is bigger for '08. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIRES (73%); SALES FIGURES (69%); EMISSIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (73%) ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



193 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 98

LENGTH: 7451 words

HEADLINE: Museums Unveil Treasures From Masters Old and New

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
Dates are subject to change. 
 SEPTEMBER
 THE ARTS IN LATIN AMERICA, 1492-1820 An extravaganza that pulls together approximately 200 works created in the Spanish viceroyalties of Central and South America over 330 years, from the Spanish arrival in the New World until the end of the colonial era. Through Oct. 28 at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, (323) 857-6000; lacma.org. 
 JAPANESE ARTS OF THE EDO PERIOD, 1615-1868 A celebration of the visual arts and popular culture that emerged in Japan under the rule of the Tokugawa shoguns, a feudal military dictatorship who established their government by force at Edo (now Tokyo). Through Feb. 24 at the Freer Gallery of Art, Smithsonian, Washington, (202) 633-4880; www.asia.si.edu. 
 THE ABSTRACT IMPULSE: 50 YEARS OF ABSTRACTION AT THE NATIONAL ACADEMY, 1956-2006 A survey of American abstract painting and sculpture from the collection of a venerable teaching institution. The focus is on the lesser-known figures who played an important role in developing the influential midcentury artistic style. Through Jan. 6 at the National Academy Museum, Manhattan, (212) 369-4880; nationalacademy.org 
 ZHANG HUAN: ALTERED STATES More than 50 works from the last 15 years by a Chinese experimental artist best known for endurance-related performance art. The display includes photographs, videos and some recent Buddhist-inspired monumental sculpture. Through Jan. 20 at the Asia Society and Museum, Manhattan, (212) 288-6400; asiasociety.org. 
 ENSEMBLE With the artist and musician Christian Marclay as guest curator, this exhibition assembles works that produce sound, by two dozen artists including Doug Aitken, John M. Armleder, Fia Backstrom, Harry Bertoia, Celeste Boursier-Mougenot, Tim Hawkinson, Pierre Huyghe, Michelangelo Pistoletto and Carolee Schneemann. Through Dec. 16 at the Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108; icaphila.org.
 TAKE YOUR TIME: OLAFUR ELIASSON A survey of this influential Icelandic artist's work from 1993 to the present, with sculpture, photography and several of his wacky large-scale installations that delight children and baffle critics. Through Feb. 24 at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, (415) 357-4000; sfmoma.org. Travels to the Museum of Modern Art, Manhattan, (April 13-June 30) and the Dallas Museum of Art (Nov. 9-March 15).
 HARRY CALLAHAN: ELEANOR With a sensitive eye, Callahan made intimate photographs of Eleanor, his wife of 63 years, throughout their life together. This show of some 125 works focuses on his Eleanor images from the 1940s, '50s and '60s, including some never before been exhibited. Through Dec. 9 at the High Museum of Art, Atlanta, (404) 733-4444; high.org. Travels to the Rhode Island School of Design in Providence (Nov. 7, 2008-Feb. 15, 2009) and the St. Louis Art Museum in spring 2009. 
 SHY BOY, SHE DEVIL AND ISIS: THE ART OF CONCEPTUAL CRAFT, SELECTIONS FROM THE WORNICK COLLECTION More than 100 artists are represented in this wide-ranging survey, with around 120 works created mostly after 1984. All come from the holdings of the Californian collectors Ronald C. and Anita L. Wornick. Tuesday through Jan. 6 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, (617) 267-9300; mfa.org. 
 PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART A new addition -- the renovated and dramatically expanded Ruth and Raymond G. Perelman Building, designed by Gluckman Mayner Architects -- provides almost 175,000 square feet of additional space for a new library, a study center, a cafe, a bookstore, art storage, offices, archives, conservation labs and multiple galleries to showcase the museum's little-displayed collections of sculpture, costumes, textiles, prints, drawings, photographs and design. Four extended exhibitions drawn from the collections inaugurate the expansion: ''Designing Modern: 1920 to the Present''; ''Alfred Stieglitz and the Philadelphia Museum of Art''; ''A Passion for Perfection''; and ''A Conversation in Three Dimensions.'' Opens Saturday at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, (215) 763-8100; philamuseum.org. THE GEOMETRY OF HOPE: LATIN AMERICAN ABSTRACT ART FROM THE PATRICIA PHELPS DE CISNEROS COLLECTION A survey show of Latin American geometric abstraction from the 1930s to the 1970s meant to expand conventional ideas of Latin American art history. Organized by the Blanton Museum of Art, University of Texas at Austin, it includes more than 100 works by around 30 artists. Wednesday through Dec. 8 at the Grey Art Gallery, New York University, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780; nyu.edu/greyart. 
 NEITHER NEW NOR CORRECT: NEW WORK BY MARK BRADFORD This Los Angeles artist, the recipient of the 2006 Bucksbaum Award, rolls out his latest large-scale, heavily layered collages made from found urban materials, including torn down advertising posters. Friday through Nov. 25 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, Manhattan, (800) 944-8639; whitney.org. 
 PROVOKING MAGIC: LIGHTING OF INGO MAURER This German lighting designer has a career-spanning retrospective. Displays include rare prototypes for lamps, one-off pieces, models, documentary photographs and films. Friday through Jan. 27 at the Smithsonian Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, Manhattan, (212) 849-8400; cooperhewitt.org. 
 CAMILLE PISSARRO: IMPRESSIONS OF CITY AND COUNTRY Though a retrospective of Pissarro's work has been touring nationally, this show promises to corral additional paintings and works on paper from public and private collections in the New York area. Sept. 16 through Feb. 3 at the Jewish Museum, Manhattan, (212) 423-3200; jewishmuseum.org.
 EDWARD HOPPER The latest stop on this popular retrospective's national tour. The show focuses on Hopper's seminal period as a painter, 1925 to 1950, with around 100 paintings, watercolors and graphic works, including masterpieces of American art. Sept. 16 through Jan. 21 at the National Gallery of Art, Washington, (202) 737-4215; nga.gov. Travels to the Art Institute of Chicago (Feb. 16- May 11).
 COSIMA VON BONIN: ROGER AND OUT The first solo museum exhibition in the United States of this emerging Kenyan-born artist, now living in Cologne, Germany. It will present an overview of her work in various mediums -- sculpture, photography, textile paintings, installation, performance, film, video and music -- created since 1990, as well as some new pieces produced for the show. Sept. 16 through Jan. 7 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, (213) 626-6222; moca.org. 
 THE AGE OF REMBRANDT: DUTCH PAINTINGS IN THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART All 228 of the museum's works by Rembrandt and other Dutch masters, most from the 17th century, go on display together for the first time. Sept. 18 through Jan. 6 at the Met, Manhattan, (212) 535-7710; metmuseum.org. 
 DESIGN: ISAMU NOGUCHI AND ISAMU KENMOCHI Pieces of furniture, design objects, preliminary drawings and photographs explore the brief working relationship between Noguchi and Isamu Kenmochi, the man regarded as the godfather of Japanese modern interior design. Sept. 20 through March 16 at the Noguchi Museum, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088; noguchi.org.
 INDIA: PUBLIC PLACES, PRIVATE SPACES -- CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO ART A focused selection of 100 works by 28 Indian artists. Selections range from photojournalism and documentary analysis to portraiture, self-portraiture and more narrative works. Sept. 19 through Jan. 6 at the Newark Museum, (973) 596-6550; newarkmuseum.org.
 MORRIS LOUIS NOW: AN AMERICAN MASTER REVISITED Another stop on the national tour for this survey of Louis's final, most innovative works, from the early 1950s until his death in 1962. In this period he pioneered the technique of staining his canvases with washes of acrylic paint. Sept. 20 through Jan. 6 at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington, (202) 633-1000; hirshhorn.si.edu.
 ROMAN ART FROM THE LOUVRE A cornucopia of Roman art -- from the first century B.C. to the early fourth century A.D. -- drawn from the Louvre's collection, including mosaics, frescoes, terracotta statuettes, sculptures, marble reliefs, glass and metal vessels. Sept. 23 through Jan. 6 at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, (317) 920-2660; ima-art.org. Travels to the Seattle Art Museum (Feb. 21-May 11) and the Oklahoma City Museum of Art (June 19-Oct. 12).
 THIS IS WAR! ROBERT CAPA AT WORK Drawn from the International Center of Photography's Robert Capa Archive, this timely show presents a collection of classic war reportage -- vintage prints, contact sheets, handwritten observations and letters -- by a premier photojournalist. Sept. 26 through Jan. 6 at the International Center of Photography, Manhattan, (212) 857-0000; icp.org. 
 IMPRESSED BY LIGHT: BRITISH PHOTOGRAPHS FROM PAPER NEGATIVES, 1840-1860 The first museum exhibition to explore the early decades of paper negative photography -- largely superceded by glass negatives by about 1860 -- with approximately 120 works by 40 artists borrowed from private and public collections in Europe and the United States. Sept. 25 through Dec. 30 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Manhattan, (212) 535-7710; metmuseum.org. Travels to the National Gallery of Art, Washington (Feb. 3-May 4).
 RICHARD PRINCE: SPIRITUAL AMERICA This 1980s appropriation artist, known for rephotographing advertising images and presenting them as his own artwork, receives a retrospective. Sept. 28 through Jan. 9 at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, Manhattan, (212) 423-3500; guggenheim.org. Travels to the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis (March 29-June 15).
 DESIGN LIFE NOW A sample of the latest witty and cool inventions in American design, architecture, furniture, graphics, animation and fashion. Sept. 28 through Jan. 6 at the Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston, (617) 478-3100; icaboston.org.
 PAINTED WITH WORDS: VINCENT VAN GOGH'S LETTERS TO EMILE BERNARD A much-anticipated show centering on correspondence -- about 20 letters, never before exhibited -- between van Gogh and his young protege and fellow painter, Emile Bernard. To complement the letters, written around 1887 to 1889, there are 22 paintings, drawings and watercolors by both men. Sept. 28 through Jan. 6 at the Morgan Library and Museum, (212) 685-0008; www.themorgan.org. 
 SYMPATHY FOR THE DEVIL: ART AND ROCK AND ROLL SINCE 1967 At last, a comprehensive look at the relationship between rock music and art. The show samples artists from the 1960s to the present who maintained connections to rock, from Andy Warhol's involvement with the Velvet Underground to Slater Bradley, Raymond Pettibon and Mike Kelley. Sept. 29 through Jan. 6 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, (312) 280-2660; mcachicago.org. Travels to Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami (May 31-Sept. 8). 
 FRANCIS AL$(YUML$)S: POLITICS OF REHEARSAL A mid-career survey for this Belgian-born artist who lives in Mexico City and works in painting, drawing, film, video and photography; his art frequently touches on myths or narratives about people, places and the past. Sept. 30 through Feb. 10 at the Hammer Museum, Los Angeles, (310) 443-7000; hammer.ucla.edu.
 OCTOBER
 J. M. W. TURNER This 19th-century British Impressionist landscape painter, a perennial crowd pleaser, is given another retrospective, this one a comprehensive group of about 140 paintings and works on paper. Oct. 1 through Jan. 6. at the National Gallery of Art, Washington, (202) 737-4215; nga.gov. Travels to the Dallas Museum of Art (Feb. 10-May 18) and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York (July 1-Sept. 21).
 TADDEO AND FEDERICO ZUCCARO: ARTIST-BROTHERS IN RENAISSANCE ROME How two young brothers learned to draw and to navigate the politics of the art world in Renaissance Rome is the subject of this major loan exhibition: around 80 objects -- principally drawings -- by these often overlooked 16th-century artists. Oct. 2 through Jan. 6 at the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, (310) 440-7300; getty.edu. 
 GILDED LIONS AND JEWELED HORSES: THE SYNAGOGUE TO THE CAROUSEL A major survey of Jewish contributions to American folk art, featuring sacred carvings, carousel animals and paper-cuts alongside documentary photographs of synagogue arks and carved gravestones. Oct. 2 through March 23 at the American Folk Art Museum, Manhattan, (212) 265-1040; folkartmuseum.org.
 ETERNAL ANCESTORS: THE ART OF THE CENTRAL AFRICAN RELIQUARY An examination of the cultural and spiritual sources for one of the world's most influential visual art traditions. More than 150 works of equatorial African sculpture from major collections in Europe and the United States will be displayed. Oct. 2 through March 2 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Manhattan, (212) 535-7710; metmuseum.org. 
 ARTS OF KASHMIR The first scholarly presentation in the United States of the history of visual and decorative arts in the Kashmir Valley, a region in northern India famous for its bronze and stone statuary along with its more well-known carpets and shawls. Oct. 3 through Jan. 6 at the Asia Society Museum, Manhattan, (212) 288-6400; asiasociety.org. 
 RENOIR LANDSCAPES A blockbuster billed as the first show to explore the importance of landscapes to this French Impressionist best known for his portraits and nudes. Oct. 4 through Jan. 6 at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, (215) 763-8100; philamuseum.org. 
 BRAVE NEW WORLDS Surveying political and social consciousness in contemporary art, with works by 24 artists from Europe, South America, the Middle East, Asia, North America and North Africa. Oct. 4 through Feb. 17 at the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, (612) 375-7600; walkerart.org. 
 GABRIEL OROZCO: INNER CIRCLES OF THE WALL A selection of recent installations, photography, video and sculpture by an influential Mexican contemporary artist, with a focus on the circle motif that occurs throughout his work. Oct. 4 through March 30 at the Dallas Museum of Art, (214) 922-1200; dallasmuseumofart.org. 
 BON: THE MAGIC WORD A celebration of the artistry and animistic beliefs of the Bon, a little-known religious and cultural group in the Himalayas and Central Asia. Oct. 5 through Jan. 14 at the Rubin Museum of Art, Manhattan, (212) 620-5000; rmanyc.org.
 ARTISANS & KINGS: SELECTED TREASURES FROM THE LOUVRE Another touring spectacle from that busy French museum, this time an array of decorative arts, sculpture, paintings, antiquities and drawings spanning the reigns of Louis XIV, XV and XVI, perhaps the richest period in French decorative arts. Oct 6 through Jan. 6 at the Denver Art Museum, (720) 865-5000; denverartmuseum.org. 
 A CENTURY OF RETABLOS: THE JANIS AND DENNIS LYON COLLECTION OF NEW MEXICAN SANTOS, 1780-1880 Around 90 painted wood panels make up this survey of a colorful narrative tradition in religious painting, which was popular in New Mexico during the years before statehood (1912). It is a lovely, if often overlooked episode in early American art that deserves to be more widely known. Oct. 6 through Jan. 27 at the Phoenix Art Museum, (602) 257-1222; phxart.org.
 JOSEPH CORNELL: NAVIGATING THE IMAGINATION As an artist Cornell was much like a bowerbird, scavenging found materials to create intricate box constructions and collages. Nearly 200 of his works from the 1930s until his death in 1972 come together for this show, billed as the first comprehensive retrospective of his work in a quarter-century. Oct. 6 through Jan. 6 at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, (415) 357-4000; sfmoma.org. 
 THE ART OF THE AMERICAN SNAPSHOT, 1888-1978: FROM THE COLLECTION OF ROBERT E. JACKSON To narrate the history of the humble snapshot in America, this show offers a chronological display of more than 200 photographs from the collection of Robert E. Jackson, including his recent gifts to the museum. Oct. 7 through Dec. 31 at the National Gallery of Art, Washington, (202) 737-4215; nga.gov. Travels to the Amon Carter Museum, Fort Worth (Feb. 16-April 27).
 OUDRY'S PAINTED MENAGERIE: PORTRAITS OF EXOTIC ANIMALS IN 18TH-CENTURY EUROPE A survey of the eccentric French animal painter Jean-Baptiste Oudry (1686-1755), who rose to prominence during the first half of Louis XV's reign with depictions of specimens in the menagerie at Versailles. Oct. 7 through Jan. 6 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, (713) 639-7300; mfah.org. 
 KARA WALKER: MY COMPLEMENT, MY ENEMY, MY OPPRESSOR, MY LOVE A retrospective for this 38-year-old artist, from her well-known black-paper wall silhouettes to more recent film animations and different kinds of work on paper. Oct. 11 through Feb. 3 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, Manhattan, (800) 944-8639; whitney.org. Travels to the Hammer Museum, Los Angeles (March 2- June 8).
 JAPAN ENVISIONS THE WEST: 16TH- TO 19TH-CENTURY JAPANESE ART FROM KOBE CITY MUSEUM An exploration into how the Japanese saw Westerners and how Japan's artists responded to and synthesized Western art and cultural influences. On view are around 160 objects, most from the Kobe City Museum. Oct. 11 through Jan. 6 at the Seattle Art Museum, (206) 654-3100; seattleartmuseum.org. 
 FOTO: MODERNITY IN CENTRAL EUROPE, 1918-1945 A scholarly, encyclopedic survey of photography in Austria, Czechoslovakia, Germany, Hungary and Poland between the two world wars, a period of unprecedented social, political and economic change across Europe, all captured by the camera. Oct. 12 through Jan. 13 at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, Manhattan, (212) 423-3500; guggenheim.org. 
 STYLIZED SCULPTURE: CONTEMPORARY JAPANESE FASHION FROM THE KYOTO COSTUME INSTITUTE An examination of fashion as a kind of sculpture with more than 20 original gowns from the last three decades by the Japanese designers Rei Kawakubo, Yohji Yamamoto, Issey Miyake, Junya Watanabe and Tao Kurihara, paired with black-and-white photographs of Japanese fashion by Hiroshi Sugimoto. Oct. 12 through Jan. 6 at the Asian Art Museum, San Francisco, (415) 581.3500; asianart.org.DALI & FILM This appealing show explores the cinematic influences on the madcap surrealist Salvador Dali's prodigious body of artwork, as well as the contribution he made to early experimental films. Oct. 14 through Jan. 6 at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, (323) 857-6000; lacma.org. Travels to the Museum of Modern Art, New York (June 29-Sept. 15). 
 POMPEII: TALES FROM AN ERUPTION A blockbuster to match the scale of the events it describes, with about 350 artifacts of everyday life in Pompeii, Herculaneum and another nearby town, all buried after the volcanic eruption of Mount Vesuvius in A.D. 79. Oct. 14 through Jan. 27 at the Birmingham Museum of Art in Alabama, (205) 254-2566; www.artsbma.org. Travels to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (March 2-June 22). 
 INSPIRING IMPRESSIONISM Another appealing if self-evident survey of Impressionism's links to art history, this time pairing about 40 works by Impressionist painters with an almost equal number by old masters including Raphael, El Greco, Rubens, Ruisdael, Titian, Fragonard, Watteau and Goya. Oct. 16 through Jan. 13 at the High Museum of Art, Atlanta, (404) 733-4444; high.org. Travels to the Denver Art Museum (Feb. 23-May 25) and the Seattle Art Museum (June 19-Sept. 21).
 GIFTS FOR THE GODS: IMAGES FROM EGYPTIAN TEMPLES A major show of ancient Egyptian temple statuary created from precious metals and copper alloys, including bronze. Some date back 2,500 years, including a treasured bronze statue of a priestess and noblewoman. Oct. 16 through Feb. 18 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Manhattan, (212) 535-7710; metmuseum.org. 
 TAPESTRY IN THE BAROQUE: THREADS OF SPLENDOR The hotly anticipated sequel to a 2002 surprise hit that surveyed tapestry in the Renaissance, this is the first comprehensive survey in the United States of 17th-century European tapestry. Collections in more than 15 countries have been tapped for the show's 40 pieces. Oct. 17 through Jan. 6 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Manhattan, (212) 535-7710; metmuseum.org. 
 GUSTAV KLIMT: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS The Klimts acquired by Ronald Lauder and Serge Sabarsky, the founders of the Neue Galerie, are united for this unprecedented display of more than 150 drawings and paintings by this Viennese Expressionist. Also on view is a reconstruction of a room from Klimt's studio, with original furnishings. Oct. 18 through June 30 at the Neue Galerie, Manhattan, (212) 628-6200; neuegalerie.org.
 IMPRESSIONISTS BY THE SEA Did Impressionism develop at the beach? That's the idea behind this show of about 60 works (by all the usual big names) that focuses on the role of the French coasts in the evolution of the Impressionist style. Oct. 20 through Jan. 13 at the Phillips Collection, Washington, (202) 387-2151; phillipscollection.org. Travels to the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, Hartford, Conn. (Feb. 9-May 11).
 SYMBOLS OF POWER: NAPOLEON AND THE ART OF THE EMPIRE STYLE, 1800-1815 This handsome touring exhibition lays out a detailed picture of the decorative arts during the reign of Napoleon Bonaparte. Its 200 or so objects include furniture, silver, jewelry, textiles, wallpaper, ceramics and paintings, with many never before seen outside France. Oct. 21 through Jan. 27 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, (617) 267-9300; mfa.org. 
 BLACK PANTHER: THE REVOLUTIONARY ART OF EMORY DOUGLAS A retrospective of this artist, activist and former minister of culture for the Black Panther Party, whose militant graphic work influenced art, rock music and film. On hand are 130 framed works and a selection of ephemera. Oct. 21 through Jan. 20 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, (213) 626-6222; moca.org. 
 POMPEO BATONI: PRINCE OF PAINTERS IN 18TH-CENTURY ROME A comprehensive look at a popular and prolific painter, beloved of wealthy Grand Tour travelers to Rome on the Grand Tour, who later slipped -- not without some cause -- into obscurity. Oct. 21 through Jan. 27 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, (713) 639-7300; mfah.org. 
 MEDIEVAL AND RENAISSANCE TREASURES FROM THE V&A An unprecedented opportunity to sample objects of beauty and quality from the Victoria and Albert Museum in London before they are reinstalled in renovated galleries. A highlight is an illustrated notebook with drawings by Leonardo da Vinci. Oct. 24 through Jan. 6 at the Norton Museum of Art, West Palm Beach, Fla. (561) 832-5196; norton.org. Travels to the Speed Art Museum, Louisville (Jan. 22-April 20), the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York (May 20-Aug. 17) and the High Museum of Art, Atlanta (Oct. 11-Jan. 4, 2009)
 A ROSE HAS NO TEETH: BRUCE NAUMAN IN THE 1960S An unusually focused exhibition concentrating on this Conceptual artist's creativity in the years right after he graduated from the University of California, Davis, in the mid-1960s. The work includes sculpture, documentation of performances, artist books and video. Oct. 25 through Jan. 13 at the Menil Collection, Houston, (713) 525-9400; menil.org. 
 DOUGLAS GORDON: PRETTY MUCH EVERY FILM AND VIDEO WORK FROM ABOUT 1992 UNTIL NOW Frequently appropriating and manipulating television, film and archival footage, Mr. Gordon has created some of the most memorable video art of our time. This installation includes about 50 works. Oct. 27 through Feb. 24 at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, (415) 357-4000; sfmoma.org.
 GEORGES SEURAT: THE DRAWINGS Luminous works on paper by Seurat (1859-1891), the talented if short-lived Pointillist, are the focus of a much anticipated exhibition, billed as the first in 25 years to focus exclusively on this neglected area of his work. Oct. 28 through Jan. 7 at the Museum of Modern Art, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; moma.org. 
 FRIDA KAHLO Coinciding with the 100th anniversary of this Mexican artist's birth is this show of 50 paintings, among them the powerful self-portraits of her bleeding, battered body. Also on view are documentary photographs and personal snapshots of Kahlo with family and friends. Oct. 27 through Jan. 20 at the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, (612) 375-7600; walkerart.org. Travels to the Philadelphia Museum of Art (Feb. 20-May 18) and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (June 14-Sept. 28).
 CONSUMING PASSION: FRAGONARD'S ALLEGORIES OF LOVE Though not as passionately admired today, Jean-Honore Fragonard (1732-1806) was the most popular artist in late-18th-century France. This focused show presents his evocative allegories of love -- a series of atmospheric genre paintings from the 1780s and '90s -- with related drawings, prints and illustrated books. Oct. 28 through Jan. 21 at the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute, Williamstown, Mass., (413) 458-2303; clarkart.edu. Travels to the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles (Feb. 12-May 4). 
 MURAKAMI This wildly popular Japanese artist will be put under the microscope, with more than 90 works -- painting, sculpture, drawing, installation and film -- and a display of all of his popular multiples and commercial merchandise (some of it for sale). Oct. 29 through Feb. 11 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles (213) 626-6222; moca.org.
 GABRIEL DE SAINT-AUBIN (1724-1780) This largely unsuccessful painter from a French family of artists is remembered today, if at all, as a keen observer of 18th-century Paris: its street life, architecture and art world. His detailed drawings made while wandering the streets or attending social events are the core of this focused, scholarly exhibition. Oct. 30 through Jan. 27 at the Frick Collection, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700; frick.org.
 NOVEMBER
 JASPER JOHNS: GRAY An examination of the use of gray in Mr. Johns's paintings, sculptures, prints and drawings since 1955. More than 130 works have been assembled, including major new pieces never before exhibited. Nov. 3 through Jan. 6 at the Art Institute of Chicago, (312) 443-3600; artic.edu. Travels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York (Feb. 5-May 4).
 TRADITION REDEFINED: MODERN AND CONTEMPORARY CHINESE INK PAINTINGS FROM THE CHU-TSING LI COLLECTION, 1950-2000 More than 60 scrolls, albums and framed works by 35 Chinese artists from the art historian Chu-tsing Li survey the last half-century of Chinese ink painting. Nov. 3 through Jan. 27 at the Arthur M. Sackler Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. (617) 495-9400; artmuseums.harvard.edu/sackler. Travels to the Phoenix Art Museum (June 29-Sept. 14), the Norton Museum of Art, West Palm Beach, Fla. (Oct. 11-Jan. 4, 2009) and the Spencer Museum of Art, University of Kansas, Lawrence (Feb. 21-May 24). 
 MARTIN PURYEAR A retrospective of an artist who is among the most talented of the Post-Minimalist American sculptors. It includes 45 works, primarily in wood, tracing his development from his first solo museum show in 1977 to today. Nov. 4 through Jan. 14 at the Museum of Modern Art, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; moma.org. Travels to the Museum of Modern Art, Fort Worth (Feb. 24-May 18), the National Gallery of Art, Washington (June 22-Sept. 28) and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in the fall. COLOR AS FIELD: AMERICAN PAINTING, 1950-75 A new appreciation for American Color Field painting -- large canvases stained with areas of fluid color -- motivates this survey of around 40 works by Helen Frankenthaler, Morris Louis, Kenneth Noland, Jules Olitski, Larry Poons, Frank Stella and others. Nov. 9 through Feb. 3 at the Denver Art Museum, (720) 865-5000; denverartmuseum.org. Travels to the Smithsonian American Art Museum, Washington (Feb. 29-May 26) and the Frist Center for the Visual Arts, Nashville (June 20-Sept. 21). BEATIFIC SOUL: JACK KEROUAC ON THE ROAD The New York Public Library's Jack Kerouac Archive provides the foundation for a celebration of this Beat writer and poet on the 50th anniversary of ''On the Road.'' Displays include several unpublished manuscripts, drafts and notes for published works, diaries, journals, letters, drawings and photographs of him and his family. Nov. 9 through March 16, (212) 869-8089; nypl.org. 
 AMERICAN CHRONICLES: THE ART OF NORMAN ROCKWELL A show celebrating an unpretentious painter of everyday life who aspired to little more than entertaining the nation. It demonstrates his ingratiating sincerity in original oil paintings of appealing social and domestic scenes as well as tear sheets for his many Saturday Evening Post covers. Nov. 10 through Feb. 3 at the Akron Art Museum, Ohio, (330) 376-9185; akronartmuseum.org. Travels to the Orlando Museum of Art, Florida (March 1-May 26); the Chrysler Museum of Art, Norfolk, Va. (Nov. 8-Feb. 1, 2009); and the Museum of Art, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. (Nov. 14-Feb. 7, 2010).KORI NEWKIRK A young artist known for performance-based videos and curtains of pony beads, their colors arranged to create swaying images, has a museum survey. Nov. 14 through March 9 at the Studio Museum in Harlem, (212) 864-4500; studiomuseum.org.
 THE FIRST IMPRESSIONIST: EUGENE BOUDIN An exhibition of paintings and drawings by Boudin (1824-1898), one of the great 19th-century French artists and an early mentor to the young Claude Monet. His contribution to Impressionism has often been overlooked, but his charming and accessible pictures are sure to make this show a crowd pleaser. Nov. 14 through Jan. 27 at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond, (804) 340-1400; www.vmfa.state.va.us.
 LAWRENCE WEINER: AS FAR AS THE EYE CAN SEE A retrospective for this veteran Conceptualist, best known for his works on paper using language. It includes his films, videos, books, posters, public commissions and audio works. Nov. 15 through Feb. 10 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, Manhattan, (800) 944-8639; whitney.org. Travels to the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles (April 13-July 14).
 EERO SAARINEN: SHAPING THE FUTURE The North American premiere of a touring retrospective of the Finnish-American architect Eero Saarinen (1910-1961), whose designs include the Gateway Arch in St. Louis and the TWA Terminal at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Nov. 17 through March 30 at Cranbrook Art Museum, Bloomfield Hills, Mich., (248) 645-3323; www.cranbrook.edu. Travels to the National Building Museum, Washington, (May 3-Aug. 23); the Minneapolis Institute of Art and Walker Arts Center (Sept. 14-Jan. 4, 2009); the Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum at Washington University, St. Louis (Jan. 30-April 27); the Museum of the City of New York (fall 2009) and Yale University, New Haven, Conn. (spring 2010).
 PICTURING THE BIBLE: THE EARLIEST CHRISTIAN ART To tell the story of how Christians first expressed their religious beliefs, this landmark show brings together rare early examples of Christian art, including frescoes, marble sculpture and sarcophagi, vessels and reliquaries, carved ivories, engraved gold glass cups, statuettes, seals, decorated crosses and illuminated Bibles. Some pieces have never before left their churches and monasteries. Nov. 18 through March 30 at the Kimbell Art Museum, Fort Worth, (817) 332-8451; kimbellart.org.
 DOMAINS OF WONDER: SELECTED MASTERWORKS OF INDIAN PAINTING Selected from collections across India, the 124 paintings in this exhibition trace the evolution of Indian court painting from the 14th through the late 19th century. Among the displays are particularly fine examples from the Mughal, Deccani and Rajput courts. Nov. 18 through Jan. 27 at the Dallas Museum of Art, (214) 922-1200; dallasmuseumofart.org.
 DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS The completion of a $158.2 million six-year building renovation and expansion, designed by Michael Graves, provides 35,000 square feet of new exhibition space. In addition to reinstalling more than 5,000 works from its permanent collection, the museum inaugurates the new space with two four-month-long exhibitions: ''Julie Mehretu: City Sitings'' and ''The Best of the Best: Prints, Drawings and Photographs From the D.I.A. Collection.'' Opens Nov. 23. (313) 833-7900; dia.org. 
 DECEMBER
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART A mesh-clad building resembling a stack of crumpled cardboard boxes, designed by the Japanese architects Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa, will provide this 30-year old art museum with a permanent home in downtown Manhattan. Inaugurating the new building is ''Unmonumental: The Object in the 21st Century,'' an international group show of 30 artists installed across three levels of the building. Opens Dec. 1. (212) 219-1222; newmuseum.org.
 TAPPING CURRENTS: CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN ART AND THE DIASPORA To challenge received ideas about African art, this exhibition presents works by a new generation of Africans. Living on and off the continent, they don't necessarily make art about Africa or their African roots. Nov. 17 through April 13 at the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kansas City, Mo.,(816) 751-1278; nelson-atkins.org.
 JORGE PARDO Famous for his genre-bending works that blend art, architecture and interior design, a hipster Los Angeles artist gets his first comprehensive museum survey in the United States. It assembles more than 60 works in various mediums, including sculpture, installation, painting and some site-specific projects. Dec. 4 through March 2 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami, Fla., (305) 893-6211; mocanomi.org. 
 ART BASEL MIAMI About 200 of the world's leading art galleries for modern and contemporary art set up temporary shop at the beach for Art Basel Miami, the sister event of Art Basel in Switzerland and arguably the American art world's most popular and important art fair. Dec. 6 through Dec. 9 at the Miami Beach Convention Center; (305) 674-1292, artbaselmiamibeach.com.
 ED RUSCHA: INDUSTRIAL STRENGTH A monumental tapestry interpretation of one of Mr. Ruscha's paintings is the centerpiece of this survey, which inaugurates the museum's swanky new downtown location. Dec. 7 through March 7 at the Fabric Workshop and Museum, Philadelphia, (215) 568 1111; fabricworkshopandmuseum.org.
 WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: 10 TAPESTRIES Celebrated for his animated videos and drawings, Mr. Kentridge also makes tapestries, which are first conceived as drawings and then executed by weavers under his direction. These are the focus of this show, along with the drawings that served as their inspiration and other works. Dec. 12 through April 6 at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, (215) 763-8100; philamuseum.org. 
 LUCIAN FREUD: THE PAINTER'S ETCHINGS Painting is the primary medium for this patriarchal British painter celebrated for his closely observed studies of the human body, yet etching is important in his work. An exhibition of about 75 examples moves from early experiments in the 1940s to increasingly large, newer works. Dec. 16 through March 10 at the Museum of Modern Art, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; moma.org.
 THE GOAT'S DANCE: PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRACIELA ITURBIDE A survey of the 40-year career of one of Mexico's best photographers assembles 100 prints from various sources, including her own archives. Concentrating on her North American pictures, the show includes images of indigenous communities in Mexico, immigrant groups in Los Angeles and life along the border. Dec. 18 through April 13 at the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, (310) 440-7300; getty.edu. 
 EMBODYING THE SACRED IN YORUBA ART Sculpture, ritual vessels, altar images, masks and costumes embody the significance of art in the Yoruba cultural tradition. Documentary photographs and videos explain the role these objects play in traditional West African societies. Dec. 22 through April 20 at the High Museum of Art, Atlanta, (404) 733-4444; high.org. Travels to the Newark Museum (June 6 to Aug. 24).
 JANUARY
 THE ART OF LEE MILLER This model-turned-artist's career as a photographer and photojournalist is explored in a show organized by the Victoria and Albert Museum for the centenary of her birth. It presents about 150 images, many vintage photographs. Jan. 26 through April 27 at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, (215) 763-8100; philamuseum.org. 
 CHANTAL AKERMAN: MOVING THROUGH TIME AND SPACE This influential Belgian-born filmmaker and video artist, now living in Paris, is having her first major exhibition at an American museum. It draws together several video installations and a new work she created especially for this show. Jan. 19 through March 29 at the Blaffer Gallery, University of Houston, (713) 743-9530; hfac.uh.edu/blaffer. Travels to the List Visual Arts Center at M.I.T., Cambridge, Mass. (May 1-July 6); the Miami Art Museum (Oct. 16-Jan. 18, 2009) and the Contemporary Art Museum, St. Louis, ( May 8 to August 2, 2009). 
 ARCHIVE FEVER: USES OF THE DOCUMENT IN CONTEMPORARY ART Organized by the curator Okwui Enwezor, this exhibition samples the work of 23 contemporary artists and artist collaboratives who use archival practices and historical documents to explore identity, history and memory. Jan. 18 through May 4 at the International Center of Photography, Manhattan, (212) 857-0000; icp.org.
 SAM TAYLOR-WOOD The young British photographer and video artist, known for her staged imagery using professional actors, is given a career retrospective with about 40 works. Jan. 25 through May 11 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Cleveland, (216) 421-8671; mocacleveland.org. Travels to the Contemporary Arts Museum, Houston (Aug. 2-Oct. 5). 
 MICHAEL ASHER Since the 1960s this Los Angeles artist has created projects that explore how museums and galleries display art. The intriguing idea behind his latest installation is rebuilding -- from plans and diagrams -- every temporary wall constructed after the museum moved to its current location in 1998. Jan. 26 through April 19 at the Santa Monica Museum of Art, California, (310) 586-6488; smmoa.org.
 SUH SE-OK: MODERN KOREAN INK PAINTER A show that traces the processes and techniques used by this classically trained artist to transform traditional ink and brush painting into a vibrant, dynamic contemporary art form. It includes sketches, seals and journals. Jan. 27 through April 20 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, (713) 639-7300; mfah.org.
 FEBRUARY
 BARKLEY L. HENDRICKS: BIRTH OF THE COOL The first retrospective of an artist known for his funky life-size portraits of young African-Americans that suggest a collaboration between Alex Katz and Jacob Lawrence. It will display works from 1963 to the present. Feb. 7 through July 13 at the Nasher Museum of Art, Duke University, Durham, N.C., (919) 684-5135; nasher.duke.edu. Travels to the Studio Museum in Harlem in fall 2008, the Santa Monica Museum of Art in spring 2009 and the Contemporary Arts Museum Houston in early 2010.
 GEORGIA O'KEEFFE AND THE WOMEN OF THE STIEGLITZ CIRCLE Georgia O'Keeffe's emergence as a prominent modern painter in 1915 is explored through a display of her works alongside those by her female artistic predecessors in the circle of Alfred Stieglitz, her dealer and husband. About 80 paintings, drawings and photographs tell the story. Feb. 9 through May 4 at the High Museum of Art, Atlanta (404) 733-4444; high.org. Travels to the San Diego Museum of Art, (May 24-Sept. 28).
 POUSSIN AND NATURE Landscapes by the great painter receive the big survey treatment in a sumptuous exhibition of more than 40 oils, many on loan from prominent museums. There are also about 60 drawings, several done en plein air. Feb. 13 through May 11 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Manhattan, (212) 535-7710; metmuseum.org. 
 GILBERT & GEORGE Organized by the Tate Modern in London, this show is the first museum retrospective in the United States for the renowned British pranksters, who have been making collaborative performance art and what they call ''living sculptures'' for almost four decades. Feb. 16 through May 18 at the de Young Museum, San Francisco, (415) 750-3600; deyoungmuseum.org. Travels to the Milwaukee Art Museum (June 14-Sept. 1) and the Brooklyn Museum (Oct. 3-Jan. 11, 2009).
 WORLDS AWAY: NEW SUBURBAN LANDSCAPES Designed to question conventional perceptions of the American suburb, 100 works from the late 1960s to the present explore ideas about the family home, suburban life, strip malls, megachurches and the corporate campus. Urban designs by architects round out the display. Feb. 16 through May 18 at the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, (612) 375-7600; walkerart.org. 
 WATERCOLORS BY WINSLOW HOMER: THE COLOR OF LIGHT This American painter created some of the most lovely watercolors ever seen, and this exhibition provides a chance to bliss out on them. There are also drawings and oil paintings from the Art Institute's collection and other sources. Feb. 16 through May 11 at the Art Institute of Chicago, (312) 443-3600; artic.edu.
 DESIGN AND THE ELASTIC MIND A glimpse into the future that surveys the latest in technological design and digital engineering. The innovative products, proposed projects and concepts -- from vehicles to appliances to new electronic interfaces -- were created by teams of designers, scientists and engineers. Feb. 24 through May 12 at the Museum of Modern Art, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; moma.org.
 THE CINEMA EFFECT: ILLUSION, REALITY AND THE MOVING IMAGE/ PART I: DREAMS The first of a two-part exhibition that looks at how cinema -- and to a lesser extent television, video technology and the Internet -- influences contemporary artists. ''Dreams'' focuses on a wide range of art that blurs elements of fact, fiction, dreams and fantasy. Feb. 14 through May 11 at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington, (202) 633-1000; hirshhorn.si.edu.
 COURBET The surname-only title somehow says it all: heroic figure, outsize life, amazing painter and pioneering figure in the history of art. In addition to presenting his paintings, the show explores the influence of photography on Courbet. Feb. 27 through May 18 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Manhattan, (212) 535-7710; metmuseum.org. 
 MARCH
 2008 WHITNEY BIENNIAL The cast for the next in these popular surveys of young and emerging talent will be rounded up by Henriette Huldisch and Shamim M. Momin, both on the Whitney's curatorial staff. The list of artists will be announced in early 2008. Opens in March at the Whitney Museum of American Art, Manhattan, (800) 944-8639; whitney.org.
 LIFE'S PLEASURES: THE ASHCAN ARTISTS' BRUSH WITH LEISURE, 1895-1925 A different take on a group of artists usually associated with depictions of poor and working-class New Yorkers at the turn of the 20th century. But they also depicted citizens engaged in diverse leisure activities, as you'll discover in around 80 works. March 8 through May 25 at the Detroit Institute of Arts, (313) 833-7900; dia.org.
 IN THE FOREST OF FONTAINEBLEAU: PAINTERS AND PHOTOGRAPHERS FROM COROT TO MONET A look at the origins of 19th-century naturalistic landscape art and early photography in the scenic forest of Fontainebleau on the outskirts of Paris. Paintings, pastels and photographs by many noted artists make the case. March 2 through June 8 at the National Gallery of Art, Washington, (202) 737-4215; nga.gov. Travels to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (July 13-Oct. 19).
 PAINTING THE GLASS HOUSE: ARTISTS REVISIT MODERN ARCHITECTURE A survey of artists interested in the potential of utopian ideas for urban transformation, often inspired by the idealism of modern architecture. March 9 through Aug. 31 at the Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, Ridgefield, Conn., (203) 438-4519; aldrichart.org. ALLAN KAPROW -- ART AS LIFE Up until his death last year, Mr. Kaprow worked tirelessly in painting, collage, sculpture, assemblage, film and video, yet he remained best known for his innovative 60s and 70s ''happenings,'' a term he coined. This survey of his richly productive 50-year career reveals him to be a more varied artist than is often imagined. March 23 through June 30 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, (213) 626-6222; moca.org.
 APRIL
 DARGER-ISM: CONTEMPORARY ARTISTS AND HENRY DARGER Celebrated most for his colorful narrative watercolors of vigorous, skimpily clad girls, Darger, who died in 1973, has influenced and inspired young contemporary artists. This show pairs his works with art made by about a dozen of his admirers. April 15 through Sept. 14 at the American Folk Art Museum, Manhattan, (212) 265-1040; folkartmuseum.org.
 EL GRECO TO VELAZQUEZ: ART DURING THE REIGN OF PHILIP III Two pioneers of Spanish painting bookend this blockbuster of paintings, sculpture and decorative arts created during a period regarded as a Golden Age of artistic activity. April 20 through July 27 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, (617) 267-9300; mfa.org. Travels to the Nasher Museum of Art, Duke University, Durham, N.C. (Aug. 21-Nov. 9). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Takashi Murakami's ''Tan Tan Bo'' comes to the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, next month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TAKASHI MURAKAMI/KAIKAI KIKI COMPANY)(pg. AR100)
J. M.W. Turner's ''Norham Castle, on the River Tweed,'' at the National Gallery of Art next month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TATE BRITAIN, LONDON)(pg. AR102)
 ''The Goat's Dance: Photographs by Graciela Iturbide,'' at the Getty in December.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. PAUL GETTY MUSEUM)(pg. AR106) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); RELIGION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (59%); FREER GALLERY OF ART (56%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



194 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Crop Rotation

BYLINE: By DALE MAHARIDGE. 
Dale Maharidge, the author of several books, teaches journalism at Columbia. He and Michael Williamson won the 1990 Pulitzer Prize in nonfiction for ''And Their Children After Them.''

 BODY:
HIGH COTTON 
 Four Seasons in the Mississippi Delta. 
 By Gerard Helferich. 
 308 pp. Counterpoint. $25. 
 Cotton has factored heavily in United States history. With Southern cotton feeding the looms in Northern cities, the young nation grew as an economic power. Cotton also meant slavery, the Civil War, Jim Crow, grinding poverty -- and a wealth of books, from Frederick Law Olmsted's ''Cotton Kingdom'' (1861), a documentary-style travelogue ahead of its time, to the novels of William Faulkner. 
 Gerard Helferich is the latest author to add to the literature. ''High Cotton'' follows a year in the life of Zack Killebrew, one of a dwindling number of small planters in the Mississippi Delta. Killebrew isn't corporate agriculture, but he's not exactly a guy working behind a mule either: he cultivates his 1,000 acres of cotton with huge machines and an arsenal of chemicals. Helferich, a former publisher and the author of an account of the 19th-century naturalist Alexander von Humboldt's voyages in Latin America, sets out to show how ''fierce new economic and political pressures'' threaten to ''drive small farmers like Zack off the land.'' 
 The struggles of a small cotton farm in ''the most Southern place on earth'' should make for a good story. But Helferich misunderstands the job description of the literary journalist. Joan Didion's much cited words -- ''Writers are always selling somebody out'' -- provide only part of the work rules. James Agee, who chronicled cotton culture in ''Let Us Now Praise Famous Men,'' gives the rest: one must be a spy, ''moving delicately among the enemy.'' Being a spy means risk-taking, bravery and depth in reporting.
 The reader knows there's trouble ahead when Helferich, in the first chapter, acknowledges that Killebrew is his wife's first cousin. And he reveals early on that he's no spy when he writes of the town near Killebrew's cotton fields: ''Tchula is still said to be a rough place, especially on weekend nights.'' This hearsay, never explored, is indicative of the book's reportorial flaws. We long to be taken into the midnight honky-tonks. We want to get inside the homes of the black hired help, and to hear from Killebrew's wife, Pam. In the course of the book the couple separate after 30 years, but we aren't told why. Instead, we remain in the daylight of the fields, watching the cotton grow. Helferich seems satisfied simply to be there at key moments in the four seasons, stitching together predictable scenes of Killebrew plowing, planting, harvesting. In between, like a stone skipping across a local catfish pond, never going deep, he offers choppy blocks of familiar history about slavery and the civil rights movement.
 Next time he sits down to write a book, Helferich should type the word ''risk'' into his computer in 144-point font, hit print and tape it to a wall near his desk to be constantly reminded that one must take it if there is to be any hope for success.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Nathan Benn/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); LITERATURE (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); JOURNALISM (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (78%)

TITLE: High Cotton: Four Seasons in the Mississippi Delta (Book)>; High Cotton: Four Seasons in the Mississippi Delta (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



195 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Victorious and Clueless

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. SAMUELS. 
Richard J. Samuels, the Ford international professor of political science and director of the Center for International Studies at M.I.T., is the author of ''Securing Japan: Tokyo's Grand Strategy and the Future of East Asia.''

 BODY:
IN THE RUINS OF EMPIRE 
 The Japanese Surrender and the Battle for Postwar Asia. 
 By Ronald H. Spector. 
 Illustrated. 358 pp. Random House. $27.95. 
 An unidentified British officer observed in late 1945 that ''all the blood spilt in Java since the Japanese occupation will never be known.'' But some of the worst was still to come. When the Japanese formally laid down their arms in mid-August 1945, the entire continent of Asia immediately became shrouded in a thick fog of peace, its new geopolitics distinguished more by confusion, mixed signals and lost opportunities than by wise diplomacy. And as new alliances took shape around old enmities, chaos, mayhem and anarchy engulfed the region. A generation of new wars followed. 
 Good historical writing -- and Ronald Spector is an excellent writer -- ought first to help us see the past more clearly. In the particular slice of the past that is the subject of ''In the Ruins of Empire,'' Asia after Japan's high-flying ambitions crashed and burned, Spector has a great deal to sort out. The questions at the time were many. Who would be liberated? Dutch and French colonials from the Japanese, or Indonesians and Vietnamese from the Dutch and the French? Would Korea find its own role? Would the Soviets control Manchuria? Under whose flag would China unite? Everything was up for grabs.
 Friends and foes became hard to distinguish. Before they could be repatriated, some idealistic Japanese soldiers -- and not a few who feared indictment for war crimes -- deserted the Imperial Army and stayed behind to battle for Indonesian independence. Others fought alongside the Vietminh against the French and the British in Vietnam, while those still wearing the Imperial chrysanthemum stood guard -- fully armed and with bayonets fixed -- when United States forces landed at Inchon to begin the occupation of Korea. Many of Chiang Kai-shek's generals, having attended the Japanese military academy, used Japanese troops to fight the Communists. Spector, a professor of history and international relations at George Washington University, reports that the Japanese patrolled rail lines and broke a Communist-led strike in Shanghai and that as late as November 1946, 80,000 or more Japanese troops were operating under Chiang's command.
 Often the victors were simply clueless, trying to govern with limited intelligence as they groped around in the dark. Prime Minister Yoshida Shigeru once mocked the United States occupation in Japan for ''its generally happy ignorance of the amount of requisite knowledge it lacked.'' And Japan was the country American officials knew best! Despite the services of a very competent O.S.S. (the forerunner of the C.I.A.), the United States was remarkably ignorant of the region. Armed only with ''a few pages on Korea'' from a 1905 travel guidebook, for example, and with no knowledge of the language, American occupation forces hired former Japanese occupiers and suspected Korean collaborators to explain life on the peninsula to them. A confused United States proconsul in Seoul declared to a stunned Korean populace that the Japanese would continue to govern the country. It took months to undo the damage.
 We all know the cliche about how ''history repeats itself,'' but successful historians show us how. Iraq casts a long, dark shadow across every page in Spector's book, starting with Gen. Douglas MacArthur's declaration in a radio address that ''today freedom is on the offensive, democracy is on the march.'' Strewn in liberty's path, however, were a ''tar pit of China's internal wars,'' native fighters in Indonesia unintimidated by modern weapons, unresolved policy disputes between the State Department and the Defense Department, ''bales of American dollars,'' alliances of convenience with corrupt warlords, and local militias of unknown provenance led by ''whiz-bang'' demagogues. Much of this will sound familiar to modern readers living through the Iraq war, and there's still more: Washington pursued ambiguous policies that officials on the ground knew were doomed; fewer troops were deployed than commanders requested; tours of duty were extended for war-weary soldiers who were ''unprepared temperamentally or by training to become part of a great social and economic reconstruction project''; and support from the American public declined sharply for adventures in Asia.
 But Spector's book is not only about the past and the present. He also enables us to imagine the future. His description of Gen. George C. Marshall's call in 1946 for huge aid packages to stimulate economic reconstruction of China and his account of how American marines stood aside and allowed Chinese Nationalists and Communists to fight to the bitter end are rich in implications for what may yet become the policy of the United States.
 With ''In the Ruins of Empire,'' an unruly, hopelessly complicated Asia comes alive. Spector etches memorable portraits not only of the major characters but of several minor ones as well, like the particularly imperious French general in Indochina who, Spector says, ''stood slightly to the right of Louis XIV,'' an officer who ''inspired homicidal thoughts'' even among his American allies. Spector's snapshot of Marshall struggling in vain to negotiate a truce between the Chinese Nationalists and the Communists, including his dramatic visit to Yenan to meet Mao Zedong, is one of many poignant and gripping vignettes.
 There were many possible endings for Spector's book. He has elected to cast a glance at Iraq while summarizing the disparate strands of his narrative without ever really knitting them together. One regrets that he didn't choose instead to explore the relevance of his story for contemporary East Asia. For it is a region where the tectonic plates of geopolitics have never stopped shifting, one that continues to feel the impact of decisions made in 1945 and roads not taken.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American troops enter a Korean town in the early days of the occupation. (Photograph by Signal Corps) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HISTORY (78%); ARMIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); WAR CRIMES (69%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (69%); WRITERS (69%); INDICTMENTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%) EAST CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); VIET NAM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



196 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE NEW SEASON CLASSICAL MUSIC; Pg. 90

LENGTH: 7671 words

HEADLINE: Just in Time For Timeless Melodies

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
Dates are subject to change.
 SEPTEMBER
 'BETWEEN THOUGHT AND SOUND: GRAPHIC NOTATION IN CONTEMPORARY MUSIC' In the 1940s composers began experimenting with graphic notation: scores that use symbols to suggest qualities of sound instead of specific pitches. Some have retained this approach, and their scores are artworks in their own right. The Kitchen is exhibiting graphic scores by Robert Ashley, Earle Brown, Meredith Monk, Joan La Barbara, Tom Johnson, Christian Wolff and others, with concerts by Either/Or (Sept. 14), Ne(x)tworks (Oct. 10) and Marina Rosenfeld and Alex Waterman (Oct. 20) to bring them to life. Through Oct. 20. 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793. thekitchen.org. 
 'MARGARET GARNER'Gerard Mortier is about to sweep in and reinvent the New York City Opera, but Paul Kellogg planned the company's new season before he retired as general and artistic director, opening it with a reminder that populism and political engagement are deep in the company's DNA. ''Margaret Garner,'' Richard Danielpour's collaboration with Toni Morrison, tells the real-life story of a fugitive slave who murdered her daughter to save her from servitude. (Ms. Morrison's novel ''Beloved'' is based on the same incidents.) Tazewell Thompson directs, with Tracie Luck in the title role. Opens Tuesday. New York State Theater. 
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Depending how you rate film music in general and John Williams in particular, the New York Philharmonic's decision to give Mr. Williams the first three nights of its season to conduct and discuss his music (with film clips and with the director Stanley Donen as a co-host) will seem either crass or brilliant. But how often does the Philharmonic open its season with a composer of any stripe on its podium? You can have it both ways: Mr. Williams's concerts are followed by Lorin Maazel's ''official'' opening night, a Dvorak program with Yo-Yo Ma playing the Cello Concerto. Sept. 14-16; Sept. 18. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.
 'LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR' A dentist with a set of headphones and a CD player once let me compare this classic Donizetti warble-and-squeak-fest with having root canal work. That the Donizetti compared unfavorably was hardly surprising. Still, people adore this kind of thing, and more power to them: they can revel in its famous mad scene and sextet when the Metropolitan Opera opens its season with Mary Zimmerman's new staging. And the prospect of hearing Natalie Dessay sing the title role has its attractions. James Levine conducts, and the opening-night performance will be beamed live to Times Square. Bring your own Novocain. Opens Sept. 24. Metropolitan Opera House. 
 BEETHOVEN, PART 1 Performers hardly need an anniversary to revisit Beethoven's major works, or even complete cycles, but here's one for this year, just in case: last March was the 180th anniversary of Beethoven's death. Flimsy? Too bad. Promising cycles abound this season, starting with the Pacifica Quartet's traversal of the string quartets in 18 free lunchtime concerts. Sept. 24-26; Oct. 8-10 and 22-24; Feb. 11-13 and 25-27; March 10-12. Philosophy Hall, Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Manhattan, (212) 854-7799. millertheater.com.
 'THE TCHAIKOVSKY EXPERIENCE' Lorin Maazel's ''festival'' this year with the New York Philharmonic is a survey of the Tchaikovsky symphonies and a few concertos and ballet excerpts. Not that Tchaikovsky isn't plentiful in Mr. Maazel's programming anyway, and if you've heard him conduct any, you'll expect the over-the-top manipulation that, for him, passes as passion. Still, it may be worth braving his readings of the Third and Fourth Symphonies to hear the superb Janine Jansen play the Violin Concerto (Oct. 3-6). Sept. 28-Oct. 13. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.
 'CHANCE ENCOUNTER' Here is one of those performances that make downtown Downtown. The composer Lisa Bielawa, the soprano Susan Narucki and the new-music chamber band the Knights, will take over East Broadway near the Seward Park Library to perform this work based on overheard conversation, collected over the last year and set to music. The musicians wander between fixed stations a block apart, and the random street sounds are part of the four-hour piece. Sept. 28. Seward Park Library, 192 East Broadway, at Essex Street, Lower East Side. lisabielawa.net/chance--section. 
 BEETHOVEN, PART 2 You see? Another Beethoven cycle already. The very solid (and occasionally stolid) Kalichstein-Laredo-Robinson Trio plays Beethoven's seven piano trios (plus variation sets and an allegretto) in chronological order in a single day. Sept. 30. 92nd Street Y.
 'THE WRECKERS'Leon Botstein's mission with the American Symphony Orchestra is the exploration of unusual works, including once popular scores that have slipped off the radar. He opens the orchestra's 45th season with a concert version of Ethel Smyth's 1906 opera, a score of Wagnerian heft that tells of two lovers who try to warn ships approaching the Cornish coast that they are being lured to the rocks by locals waiting to plunder the wrecks. Sept. 30. Avery Fisher Hall.
 OCTOBER
 CARNEGIE HALL OPENING WEEK Claudio Abbado and the Lucerne Festival Orchestra take up residence at Carnegie Hall for the opening week of its 117th season, offering two titanic works: Beethoven's Ninth Symphony (Oct. 3, 4) and Mahler's Third (Oct. 6). Chamber players from the ensemble play concerts at Weill Recital Hall and Zankel Hall, and on the orchestra's night off, the dazzling pianist Pierre-Laurent Aimard takes over Carnegie as conductor and soloist with the Mahler Chamber Orchestra, which makes up the core of the Lucerne orchestra. Oct. 3-7. Carnegie Hall.
 KRONOS QUARTET You never know what to expect when the Kronos Quartet pulls into town, but it's almost invariably something provocative, in a good way. In ''More Than Four,'' its contribution to the Next Wave festival, the quartet collaborates with two Finnish pop avant-gardists: Kimmo Pohjonen, an accordionist and singer, and Samuli Kosminen, an accordionist and manipulator of electronic sounds. The program includes ''Uniko,'' by Mr. Pohjonen and Mr. Kosminen, with video by Mikki Kunttu, and ''Dear Mme.,'' a music theater work by Erik Sanko. Oct. 3, 5-6. BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100. bam.org. (The Kronos also plays new music by Vladimir Martynov and Clint Mansell at Zankel Hall on Feb. 22.)
 GOTHAM EARLY MUSIC SCENE This new organization devoted to fostering early-music activity in New York introduces itself with three quadruple-bill concerts, offered in the style of rock shows at the Fillmore East in the 1960s (but without the light shows and wafting herbal scents). The extravaganza includes performances by a dozen of New York's best medieval-through-Baroque bands: Trefoil, Parthenia, Lionheart and Rebel (Oct. 4); Repast, Asteria, the New York Consort of Viols and the Spiritus Collective (Oct. 7, afternoon) and Artek, Pomerium, My Lord Chamberlain's Consort and the Ivory Consort (Oct. 7, evening). Times Center, 242 West 41st Street, (212) 556-4300. thetimescenter.com.
 ESA-PEKKA SALONEN Though best known as a conductor, now finishing his term as music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, Esa-Pekka Salonen has always made composition his first love. His music -- witty, colorful and technically astute -- should make a fine opener for the Miller Theater's important Composer Portraits series. The performers include Imani Winds, the cellist Darrett Adkins, the soprano Tony Arnold and the pianist Blair McMillen, with Jeffrey Milarsky conducting. Oct. 5. Miller Theater. 
 TEATRO LIRICO The Boston Early Music Festival has established a presence in New York with its series at the comfortable, acoustically warm, visually striking new chamber music hall at the Morgan Library. Stephen Stubbs, the lutenist and guitarist who directs the festival (with Paul O'Dette), leads his Teatro Lirico in works of Monteverdi, Farina, Hidalgo and Marini. But the group's real specialty is improvisation, and a helping of that is promised too. Oct. 5. Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008. morganlibrary.org.
 'APPOMATTOX'Philip Glass's latest opera is set in the final days of the Civil War. Like his ''Satyagraha,'' which examined the development of Gandhi's philosophy of nonviolent resistance, ''Appomattox'' focuses on a historical moment rich in social and political consequences. Its characters include Ulysses S. Grant, Robert E. Lee and Abraham Lincoln, and the libretto, by Christopher Hampton, borrows lyrics from Civil War songs. Andrew Shore and Dwayne Croft star as the opposing generals, and Dennis Russell Davies, Mr. Glass's most experienced interpreter, conducts. Opens Oct. 5. San Francisco Opera, War Memorial Opera House, (415) 864-3330. sfopera.com.
 LOS ANGELES PHILHARMONIC In ''Sibelius Unbound,'' Esa-Pekka Salonen explores the seven Sibelius symphonies and a handful of tone poems, with contemporary scores by Kaija Saariaho and Mr. Salonen himself providing a glimpse of more up-to-date Finnish music. The American premiere of Ms. Saariaho's ''Passion de Simone,'' with Dawn Upshaw singing, is a bona fide event even apart from the festival. An American viewpoint is offered as well: Steven Stucky's ''Radical Light,'' commissioned for the occasion. This is what an orchestra's festival programming should be: paying attention, New York Philharmonic? Oct. 5-26. Walt Disney Concert Hall, Los Angeles (323) 850-2000. laphil.com.
 BEETHOVEN, PART 3 Not long ago, if Carnegie Hall presented a complete Beethoven sonata cycle, the performer in the spotlight was inevitably Alfred Brendel. Now Andras Schiff, an astute Beethoven player of the generation after Mr. Brendel's (he is 53) is staking his claim. He plays half the sonatas this season, with the rest on account. Oct. 21, 24; April 16, 18. Carnegie Hall. (If you must hear all the works and want to know what the youngest generation makes of them, the Mannes College the New School for Music is presenting free student performances of the sonatas and other works from Sept. 23 to Dec. 11; 150 West 85th Street, (212) 580-0210. newschool.edu/mannes
 ANGELA HEWITT This Canadian pianist plays Bach's ''Well-Tempered Clavier.'' Oct. 26, 28. Carnegie Hall. 
 'CENDRILLON' Massenet's rendering of the Cinderella story, painted in rich Gallic melodies, finds its way to the stage less often than Rossini's ''Cenerentola,'' but its attractions are stronger. The New York City Opera offers a new production by Renaud Doucet, with the French soprano Cassandre Berthon in the title role, Katherine Jolly as the Fairy Godmother and Frederic Antoun as Prince Charming. Opens Oct. 27. New York State Theater.
 MET CHAMBER ENSEMBLE After weeks of sawing away in the pit, chained to the likes of ''Lucia di Lammermoor,'' these players must be thrilled to find themselves in the spotlight with substantial music on their stands. No wonder these concerts are so vibrant. With James Levine conducting and the sopranos Judith Bettina and Susan Narucki as the soloists, the ensemble offers works by Elliott Carter, Milton Babbitt and John Harbison. Then, reprising a performance Mr. Levine led at Tanglewood in 2006, the three composers take up speaking roles in Stravinsky's ''Histoire du Soldat.'' (If you're wondering, Mr. Babbitt is the Devil.) Oct. 28. Weill Recital Hall.
 'IL SANT'ALESSIO' Stefano Landi's 1631 opera about the life of Saint Alexis is said to be the first opera about a historical figure (as opposed to a Greek myth). William Christie, whose visits to New York with Les Arts Florissants are always season highlights for anyone interested in Baroque opera, restored this rarity to life in a 1996 Erato recording. He brings it to New York, semistaged by Benjamin Lazar, with a cast heavy in countertenors. (The original was sung by castratos.) Oct. 29, 30. Rose Theater.
 JORDI SAVALL There haven't been many superstar viola da gamba players since Marin Marais hung up his bow in 1728. But ever since the supremely elegant gambist Jordi Savall recorded music for the film ''Tous les Matins du Monde'' (1991), he has been one of the early-music world's biggest draws. He leads his Baroque orchestra, Le Concert des Nations, in works by Brade, Lully and Purcell on Oct. 29 in Zankel Hall and plays a solo recital on Oct. 31 in Weill Recital Hall.
 ST. PETERSBURG PHILHARMONIC Yuri Temirkanov leads this storied orchestra in three programs, each with a Prokofiev work as its centerpiece. But the first two also include hits of Germanic Romanticism: Beethoven's Violin Concerto (with Julia Fischer as soloist) and Schumann's Piano Concerto (with Nelson Freire). The last program offers works by Sviridov and Mussorgsky as preludes to Prokofiev's ''Alexander Nevsky.'' Oct. 30-Nov. 1. Carnegie Hall. 
 LORRAINE HUNT LIEBERSON More than a year after the death of this eloquent mezzo-soprano, the musical world still feels the loss. But concert recordings are slowly making their way to CD. Among the latest is her appearance with the New York Festival of Song at Caramoor in July, 2004. The program, ''Spanish Love Songs,'' includes works by Schumann, Wolff, Ravel, Roussel and a handful of actual Spaniards: among them, Granados, Turina and Mompou. Hunt Lieberson is joined by Joseph Kaiser, tenor, and the festival's pianist-directors, Steven Blier and Michael Barrett. October. Bridge Records. 
 NOVEMBER
 BERLIN IN LIGHTS Carnegie Hall and other New York institutions present a festival celebrating Berlin's cultural life in halls and cultural settings around New York. Nov. 2-18. 
 MARC-ANDRE HAMELIN This decidedly nonglitzy Canadian pianist is a musician's musician, with a vast repertory and the interpretive sensibility to find something fresh in everything he touches. So although his recital program looks commonplace -- Haydn and Chopin sonatas, Debussy's ''Preludes,'' Book 2 -- enlightenment may be in the offing. Nov. 4. Rose Theater. 
 'VANESSA' Contemporary composers have had a tough time making opera work, but Samuel Barber tapped into a thoroughly traditional approach his first time out: He took a scarcely creditable libretto (by Gian Carlo Menotti) peopled with deeply neurotic characters who behave badly and drive one another to despair, and set it to vocal writing so ravishingly lyrical and orchestration so rich that you almost forget how ludicrous the story is. Singers who can internalize this madness enough to make listeners care about the fruitcakes they portray are both crucial and rare, but Lauren Flanigan has proved her ability to do that time and again. Expect her to excel in the title role, with Katharine Goeldner and Ryan MacPherson as the other players in this odd multigenerational love triangle. Michael Kahn directs and Anne Manson conducts this City Opera production. Opens Nov. 4. New York State Theater.
 JUILLIARD ORCHESTRA The student ensembles at New York's three major conservatories perform at startlingly high levels, but the Juilliard musicians play with the brightest polish. The centerpiece of this program, led by the intrepid Dennis Russell Davies, is the American premiere of Alfred Schnittke's unfinished Symphony No. 9, completed by Alexander Raskatov at the request of Schnittke's widow. Mr. Raskatov's own ''Nunc Dimittis'' (a choral setting of texts by Joseph Brodsky and Starets Siluan), in memory of Schnittke, will also be heard. Nov. 7. Avery Fisher Hall.
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC The New York Philharmonic's associate conductor, the petite powerhouse Xian Zhang, joins the violinist Vadim Repin in Lalo's ''Symphonie Espagnole'' and can be counted on to give a sweeping reading of Beethoven's Seventh Symphony. But the real draw here is ''Announcement,'' by the inventive young composer Huang Ruo. Actually, it is one movement of a short three-movement work, and you would think that the Philharmonic could manage the whole thing (as the Philadelphia Orchestra did in 2000). Nov. 8-10. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.
 GUSTAVO DUDAMEL, PART 1 This young conductor leads the Simon Bolivar Youth Orchestra of Caracas. Nov. 11. Carnegie Hall. 
 BERLIN PHILHARMONIC The orchestra appears as the centerpiece of the festival Berlin in Lights in three concerts. Nov. 13-14, 16. Carnegie Hall. 
 ST. LAWRENCE STRING QUARTET Recent personnel changes have not dulled this group's edge or its appetite for unusual programming. In this visit with the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, it plays quartets of Franck and Schumann and is joined by the soprano Heidi Grant Murphy and the pianist Kevin Murphy in two works for piano quintet and soprano: Chausson's ''Chanson Perpetuelle'' and Roberto Sierra's ''Songs From the Diaspora'' in its premiere. Nov. 14. New York Society for Ethical Culture. 
 'ONE LOSS PLUS' The violinist and composer Daniel Bernard Roumain joins forces with Janet Wong, a video designer, and Wynne Bennett, a pianist, in this work about loss, isolation and optimism. At its heart is a video collage that includes music, narration, video from YouTube and text from MySpace. Mr. Roumain, whose influences range from the standard classical canon to hip-hop, jazz and rock, weaves a meditative hourlong score around all this. Nov. 14, 16-17. BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100. bam.org.
 ELLIOTT CARTER, PART 1 Elliott Carter has become a rapid composing machine lately; you could probably fill whole programs during his centenary celebrations in 2008 with premieres. James Levine conducts Mr. Carter's new Horn Concerto with the Boston Symphony. James Sommerville, the orchestra's principal horn player and the soloist, is no doubt thanking his stars that Mr. Carter's once craggy style has softened lately, but it's undoubtedly still a challenge. Nov. 15, 17, 20. Symphony Hall, Boston, (888) 266-1200. bso.org.
 THOMAS ADES This English composer appears in his other guise as pianist in a solo recital. Nov. 19. Zankel Hall. 
 'IPHIGENIE EN TAURIDE' Gluck's operas have the melodic grace of Handel and the harmonic ingenuity of Mozart, yet they have a more tenuous hold on the standard repertory than frippery by Donizetti and Bellini. Go figure. Beyond the music itself, the principal draw of this new Met production is Susan Graham's portrayal of Iphigenie, and no doubt there is ample curiosity about what Placido Domingo will make of Oreste. Stephen Wadsworth directs, and Louis Langree, best known for his reviving influence at the Mostly Mozart Festival, makes his Met debut in the pit. Opens Nov. 27. Metropolitan Opera House. (The staging is a co-production with the Seattle Opera, which presents it with a different cast, Oct. 13-27.) 
 GUSTAVO DUDAMEL, PART 2 The young Venzuelan conductor returns to make his debut with the New York Philharmonic. Nov. 29-30; Dec. 1, 4. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org. 
 BEETHOVEN, PART 4 The violinist Christian Tetzlaff and the pianist Alexander Lonquich bring to their performances both sharp analytical sensibilities and a clear feeling for the music's emotional undercurrents. That balance, weighted slightly toward the emotional in both cases, should serve them well in Beethoven's 10 violin sonatas, played chronologically in three concerts. Nov. 29; Dec. 2, 4. 92nd Street Y.
 DECEMBER
 KIROV ORCHESTRA Much as James Levine has done with the Met Orchestra, Valery Gergiev has taken the Kirov Orchestra out of the opera pit and made it into a glorious instrument that, at full throttle, can be almost frightening. That should be the case when Mr. Gergiev leads Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring'' in the first of three concerts. The programs include a hefty helping of Russian opera as well, with the company's chorus and soloists: Act I of Glinka's ''Ruslan and Ludmila'' shares the bill with the ''Rite''; the second concert is wholly devoted to Rimsky-Korsakov's ''Snow Maiden''; and the last pairs a Stravinsky opera, ''Les Noces,'' with Act II of Borodin's ''Prince Igor.'' Dec. 1-2, 4. Carnegie Hall.
 'THE GATE' The Brooklyn Philharmonic, having come through hard times, continues to revive itself under the direction of Michael Christie. And it isn't playing safe: here it devotes a full evening to music by Tan Dun, including ''Water Music,'' based on percussive sounds made by water, and ''The Gate,'' a new multimedia work in which three tragic heroines from Western and Chinese literature make their cases for restoration to life. Dec. 5, 7-8. Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100. bam.org.
 ELLIOTT CARTER, PART 2 The run-up to the Carter centenary begins in earnest with the first New York staging of his opera, ''What Next?'' The last performance is on Mr. Carter's 99th birthday. Mr. Carter wrote the opera when he was 90, and like many of his other recent scores, it bristles with energy and variety. It's a philosophical ghost story: Six people crawl from the wreckage of a car crash and reconstruct their relationships, unaware that they are dead. Christopher Alden directs, and Jeffrey Milarsky conducts Axiom, a Juilliard ensemble. Dec. 7-9, 11. Miller Theater.
 'MESSIAH' You can't swing a dead cat in New York this month without hitting a performance of Handel's ''Messiah,'' and you can find every possible approach to singing it. If you want a sublime, beautifully shaped sound, produced by a choir of men and boys and supported by a period-instrument orchestra (Concert Royal), the performance at St. Thomas Church is the one to hear. John Scott conducts; the vocal soloists are Amanda Balestrieri, Ryland Angel, Scott Williamson and Craig Phillips. Dec. 11, 13. St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd Street, (212) 664-9360. saintthomaschurch.org.
 EARLY MUSIC NEW YORK Frederick Renz's flexible period-instrument ensemble typically offers something unusual in its Christmas concerts. Having explored medieval plays, Renaissance carols and Baroque choral works, Mr. Renz leads ''Kerstmis in Holland'': Dutch Christmas music from the 16th and 17th centuries. Dec. 16, 21, 23, 25. Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 280-0330. earlymusicny.org.
 JANUARY
 'CONCRETE FREQUENCY' The Los Angeles Philharmonic starts the year with a compact new-music festival, led by David Robertson and touching on everything from works with film (Copland's ''City'' and a new project by Michael Gordon and Bill Morrison) to works that revel in noise-making, grand or subtle (Varese's ''Ameriques'' and Pierre Boulez's ''Explosante Fixe''), with Feldman, Ives, Zappa, George Crumb and others along the way. Jan. 4-6, 10-13. Walt Disney Concert Hall, Los Angeles, (323) 850-2000. laphil.com.
 NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS Albert de Bergeret's troupe presents the Gilbert and Sullivan repertory in economical but attractive productions that maintain the tradition of weaving topical jokes into the original texts. Sometimes it works, sometimes you groan, but the updating is always lively and the musical values are solid. The company offers a newly expanded split season: ''Princess Ida,'' Jan. 4, 6, 12; ''The Pirates of Penzance,'' Jan. 5, 8, 11, 13; ''Trial by Jury'' and a revue of favorite arias, Jan. 10; and ''The Mikado,'' Jan. 12 (with more to come in June). City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212. nygasp.org. 
 MERKIN REBORN Merkin Concert Hall, 30 years old and closed for renovations since the spring, reopens with a celebratory concert in which Aaron Jay Kernis conducts the Lark Chamber Artists in his own ''Simple Songs'' and Copland's ''Music for the Theater.'' But perhaps more inviting among the opening events is the hall's Grand Piano Marathon, a free six-hour concert by a dozen classical and jazz pianists. The classical players include Richard Goode, Garrick Ohlsson, Stephen Gosling, Blair McMillen, Lisa Moore and Ursula Oppens, who plays a new work written for the occasion by William Bolcom. Jan. 8 (reopening); Jan. 21 (marathon). 
 PIERRE BOULEZ Carnegie Hall's ''Making Music'' series puts new music in a chat-show format: The composer is interviewed between performances, with everything from biography and philosophy to the music at hand open for discussion. This time the subject is Pierre Boulez, the once fearsome, now almost (if not quite) beloved godfather of Total Serialism. The Lucerne Festival Academy Ensemble performs ''Le Marteau Sans Maitre'' and ''Sur Incises.'' Jan. 17. Zankel Hall.
 RICCARDO MUTI AND THE NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Having twice declined the music directorship of the New York Philharmonic, Riccardo Muti has signed on as the official Elder Presence during Alan Gilbert's tenure, starting in 2009. But for now he's just a visitor. Count on elegant, energetic readings of Liszt's ''From the Cradle to the Grave,'' Brahms's Second Piano Concerto (with Leif Ove Andsnes) and one of Mr. Muti's specialties, Scriabin's ''Poem of Ecstasy'' during his first week. He leads Schumann's Piano Concerto (with Radu Lupu) and Bruckner's Sixth Symphony in his second program. And he returns later in the season with Elgar's Violin Concerto (with Pinchas Zukerman) and Copland's Third Symphony, not his long suit but a nice gesture. Jan. 17- 19, 23-26; March 27-29. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org.
 ELLIOTT CARTER, PART 3 Ursula Oppens, one of Elliott Carter's best and most devoted interpreters since her days as the pianist of Speculum Musicae in the 1970s, devotes a program to his complete solo piano music. Jan. 17. Symphony Space.
 SCHUBERT SONGS Every now and then, Carnegie Hall assembles a handful of superb lieder singers for an all-star Schubertiade, and there is nothing like it. The roster this time is Dorothea Roschmann, soprano; Ian Bostridge, tenor; and Thomas Quasthoff, bass-baritone, with Julius Drake at the keyboard. As fantasy teams go, this one looks hard to beat, and the program is packed with favorites, including ''An Mignon,'' ''Der Konig in Thule,'' ''Gretchen am Spinnrade'' and ''Szene aus Goethes Faust.'' Jan. 19. Carnegie Hall.
 JUILLIARD FOCUS! Joel Sachs's annual Focus! festival at the Juilliard School typically examines music that represents either a particular philosophy (serialism, for example) or a geographic region. This year's festival, ''All About Elliott,'' celebrates -- you guessed it -- Elliott Carter's centenary. But ''about'' is a decisive qualifier here. Although Pierre Boulez conducts the New Juilliard Ensemble and the Lucerne Festival Academy in three important Carter scores -- the Triple Duo, ''Penthode'' and the Clarinet Concerto -- there is context as well: music by Varese, Stravinsky and Mr. Boulez himself. Jan. 25-Feb. 2. Juilliard School.
 GUITAR MARATHON At its first guitar marathon, in 2006, the 92nd Street Y did the natural thing: it presented a daylong parade of mostly young players, with a few guitarist-composers among them. This time the marathon has a theme: Brazilian music, which dances between classical forms and distinctly Brazilian jazz and pop styles. The bill includes performances by Carlos Barbosa-Lima, Badi Assad, Arthur Kampela, Celso Machado and many others in afternoon and evening sessions. Jan. 27. 92nd Street Y.
 ELLIOTT CARTER, PART 4 The string quartets are the key to Mr. Carter's music: each was composed at a time when his style was moving in a new direction, and the full set of five -- which the Pacifica Quartet is performing in one sitting -- traces the arc of his career. Jan. 30. New York Society for Ethical Culture. 
 NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC Last season Lorin Maazel wiggled his way through all the Brahms orchestral works, but he apparently believes enough time has elapsed to revisit his distorted view of the Fourth Symphony. The best defense is to turn up for the first half only, and hear one of Luciano Berio's most enduring scores, the Sinfonia. It should be good: Mr. Maazel tends to save his most severe score-twisting for his programs' closing works. Jan. 30-Feb. 2. Avery Fisher Hall. (The Philharmonic musicians will also celebrate Berio, who died in 2003, with the complete set of his fiendishly difficult ''Sequenzas'' on the afternoon of Feb. 2 at the Rose Theater.) nyphil.org.
 'SYMPHONY OF A THOUSAND' Back when he was the fountainhead of ferocious modernism, no one would have pegged Pierre Boulez as a great Mahler conductor. But he has made magnificent recordings of some of the symphonies, and now he adds the Eighth to the series, leading the Staatskapelle Berlin and a handful of adult and children's choruses. The soloists are Twyla Robinson, Soile Isokoski, Adriane Queiros, Michelle DeYoung, Johan Botha, Simone Schroder, Hanno Muller-Brachmann and Robert Holl. January. Deutsche Grammophon. 
 'LE NOZZE DI FIGARO' Nikolaus Harnoncourt leads the Vienna Philharmonic and a solid, starry cast -- Anna Netrebko, Bo Skovhus, Dorothea Roschmann, Ildebrando D'Arcangelo, Christine Schafer, Marie McLaughlin -- in one of the peaks of the operatic canon. January. Deutsche Grammophon. 
 FEBRUARY
 CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER Last season the society devoted its winter festival to English music, and the results could hardly have been duller. But the expansive historical overview of American music for which it is marshalling its forces this time looks promising. The vast ground covered includes a Benjamin Franklin string quartet; glimpses of the late Romanticism of MacDowell, Griffes and Amy Cheney Beach; the exoticism of Gottschalk; and the modernist quirkiness of Henry Cowell and John Cage. Classics like Barber's String Quartet, Lukas Foss's ''Time Cycle'' and Ruth Crawford Seeger's String Quartet are presented, as are works by Gershwin, Copland and Ives. Premieres by Joan Tower and Mario Davidovsky are on the bill as well. Feb. 8-24. New York Society for Ethical Culture. 
 AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA Dennis Russell Davies returns to the orchestra he founded to lead ''Culture Shock,'' a program in which stylistic boundaries move from porous to nonexistent. There are new works by two very different jazz musicians -- the pianist Uri Caine and the saxophonist Fred Ho, who join the orchestra as soloists -- as well as ''Resolution/Tabuh Gari'' for Balinese percussion and orchestra by Michael Tenzer, and Terry Riley's raga-influenced ''Remember This O Mind,'' with Mr. Riley on vocals and synthesizer. Feb. 8. Zankel Hall. 
 BALTIMORE SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA This orchestra's musicians generated lots of sound and fury -- fury, mostly -- when Marin Alsop was appointed music director last year. But Ms. Alsop appears to have settled in. This eclectic program -- a new work by the iconoclastic Steven Mackey, familiar ones from Strauss, Debussy and Stravinsky -- should reveal a lot about the state of the conductor-orchestra chemistry. Feb. 9. Carnegie Hall. 
 ST. LOUIS SYMPHONY Many an orchestra (or sometimes just their audiences) has eyed the St. Louis Symphony jealously since David Robertson took over as music director. He has revitalized its repertory and is said to have it playing superbly. Here he shows it off with Messiaen's mammoth, difficult ''Turangalila Symphony'' one night and a program of Stravinsky, Szymanowski (the Violin Concerto, with Christian Tetzlaff) and Mozart the next. Feb. 16. Carnegie Hall. 
 PETER LIEBERSON Ever since the Piano Concerto he wrote for Peter Serkin in 1983 put him in the spotlight, a direct, unequivocal soulfulness and an appealing lyricism have been hallmarks of Peter Lieberson's style. His vocal music, written largely for his wife, Lorraine Hunt Lieberson, who died last year, is particularly striking. But Mr. Lieberson has a varied chamber music catalog, and this concert in the Composer Portraits series fills out the picture by including early works like the Flute Variations (1971) and the Concert for Four Groups of Instruments (1973) as well as scores from the 1980s and '90s. Feb. 21. Miller Theater. (You will also want to catch Mr. Lieberson's exquisite ''Neruda Songs'' performed by Kelley O'Connor, the mezzo-soprano, with Bernard Haitink and the Chicago Symphony on May 15 at Carnegie Hall.)
 RUSSIAN NATIONAL ORCHESTRA This orchestra, founded in 1990, at first staked its claim to fame as an expression of post-Soviet private enterprise: it runs entirely without state financing and has built its reputation on the power and precision of its young players. It has taken a while to establish a distinctive sound, but when Vladimir Jurowski brought it to New York last year, that sound seemed in the making as well. Mr. Jurowski and company return with both Brahms piano concertos (the First with Stephen Hough, the Second with Garrick Ohlsson), a completion of Schubert's ''Unfinished'' Symphony (rarely a good idea; this one is by Anton Safronov) and Tchaikovsky ''Pathetique.'' Feb. 23-24. Avery Fisher Hall.
 'WINTERREISE' To judge from Thomas Quasthoff's moving performance of Schubert's ''Schone Mullerin'' at Carnegie Hall two seasons ago -- or, let's face it, his renderings of just about anything -- it is probably worth the trip to Boston to hear him sing ''Winterreise,'' Schubert's most wrenching song cycle, with James Levine at the piano. Feb 24. Symphony Hall, Boston, (888) 266-1200. bso.org.
 CHICAGO SYMPHONY When the ''interactive timeline'' on this orchestra's fancy Web site stops at 1999, you know something's amiss. Currently between music directors and with no obvious prospects on the horizon, the orchestra has Bernard Haitink as its principal conductor and Pierre Boulez as conductor emeritus. Yet even without a full-fledged leader, the performances have been gleaming on recent visits, particularly with Mr. Boulez on the podium. In one concert he leads Matthias Pintscher's ''Osiris,'' Debussy's ''Images'' and Bartok's Third Piano Concerto with Mitsuko Uchida; in the other, Stravinsky's ''Petrouchka'' and Berlioz's ''Nuits d'Ete'' with Susan Graham. Feb. 25-26. Carnegie Hall. 
 ALARM WILL SOUND Originally a student ensemble at the Eastman School of Music, Alarm Will Sound has become one of the most vital and original ensembles on the American music scene. Its players are young, virtuosic and full of lively ideas (some compositional: several members compose). Lately it has added early music to its mix: a work by Johannes Ciconia turns up here amid works by John Adams, Benedict Mason and Harrison Birtwistle, as well as transcriptions of Conlon Nancarrow piano rolls and electronica by Venetian Snares (Aaron Funk) and Mochipet (David Wang). Feb. 28. Zankel Hall.
 'PETER GRIMES'Benjamin Britten was drawn to the darker side of human psychology in his stage works, and in the case of ''Peter Grimes,'' it's hard to know who is creepier: Grimes, around whom young boys seem prone to accidental death, or the townspeople, who become a lynch mob well before the evidence is weighed. In this new Met production by John Doyle, Anthony Dean Griffey sings the title role, and Patricia Racette is Ellen Orford. Donald Runnicles conducts. Opens Feb. 28. Metropolitan Opera House. 
 VIENNA PHILHARMONIC The famous Viennese men's club visits with its matched instruments and the antique repertory it plays with such polish. Valery Gergiev conducts programs that lean more heavily on the Russian repertory (including Tchaikovsky's Fifth and Sixth Symphonies) than those this orchestra usually plays in New York. French music -- Berlioz and Debussy -- is represented as well, but Viennese music of any school is entirely absent. Maybe the orchestra is hoping that the facsimile of repertory versatility will mask its inflexibility in personnel matters. (How many full-time women this year?) Feb. 29-March 2. Carnegie Hall. 
 MARCH
 JULIAN BREAM TRIBUTE Mr. Bream doesn't celebrate his 75th birthday until July, but several of the best American classical guitarists of the generation who grew up listening to Mr. Bream's recordings and absorbing his intellectually vital, post-Segovian style are banding together to salute him in anticipation of that milestone. The players include Frederic Hand, William Kanengiser, David Leisner, David Tanenbaum, Scott Tennant and Benjamin Verdery. March 1. 92nd Street Y. 
 'KING ARTHUR' Technically, ''King Arthur'' is a semi-opera, an example of the hybrid form of theater and opera that pleased the opera-disdaining Londoners of Purcell's time. This Arthur is not the grail-seeking king of the Roundtable you may know from Mallory. The Arthur of John Dryden's libretto loves the blind Emmeline, not Guinevere, and his mission is to defeat the Saxon king Oswald. On both sides, wizards and spirits abound, and Purcell supplies magnificently picturesque music -- most notably, the chromatic aria of the Cold Genius and the chattering chorus of the Cold People -- as well as paeans to England like ''Fairest Isle.'' Mark Morris directs and choreographs this new City Opera production, with costumes by Isaac Mizrahi, and Jane Glover conducts. Opens March 5. New York State Theater.
 ALAN GILBERT This young conductor leads the New York Philharmonic for the first time since he was recently named as its next music director. March 5-8, 13-15. Avery Fisher Hall. nyphil.org. 
 JANINE JANSEN Having quickly established that the sultry photos on her CD covers disguise a serious, technically solid musician, the Dutch violinist Janine Jansen is burning her way through the repertory. In this chamber program she plays Bach's D minor Partita, with its monumental Chaconne, and is joined by Maxim Rysanov, violist, and Torleif Thedeen, cellist, in Bach two- and three-part Inventions and Schnittke's String Trio. March 8. Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949. metmuseum.org. 
 'TRISTAN UND ISOLDE'Deborah Voigt sings her first Metropolitan Opera Isolde in this revival of Wagner's meditation on all-consuming love. With Ben Heppner as Tristan, the company offers today's great Wagnerian power couple. Opens March 10. Metropolitan Opera House. 
 ETHEL String quartets that use amplification persuasively are few and far between, but Ethel has made an art of it, and is as conversant with the joys of fuzz-boxes, phase-shifters and other sound-processing devices as any self-respecting electric guitarist. The group celebrates its 10th anniversary with a program that explores its quirky and in some cases home-brewed repertory. March 20. Symphony Space. 
 POCKET CONCERTOS In the final installment of the Miller Theater's program of newly commissioned concertos, Jennifer Koh plays Laura Elise Schwendinger's Violin Concerto and Christopher Taylor is the soloist in ''The Starry Night,'' a piano concerto by Ichizo Okashiro. Closing the series, the idiosyncratic John Zorn has written a concerto for singer and amplified ensemble and has undoubtedly come up with the title of the year: ''27 Acts of Unspeakable Depravity in the Abominable Life and Times of Gilles de Rais.'' March 27. Miller Theater. 
 MARGARET LENG-TAN, SYLVIE COURVOISIER Morton Feldman proved that the smallest sounds can express big ideas. Margaret Leng-Tan has applied that theory to instruments, by way of the toy piano. She also plays full-size instruments, though usually by reaching in to strike the strings directly. She will do both in her half of a program, split with the jazz pianist Sylvie Courvoisier. The program includes music by John Cage, Henry Cowell and George Crumb, and a new work by Stephen Montague for piano and live electronics. March 27. Merkin Concert Hall.
 APRIL
 ORCHESTRA OF ST. LUKE'S It would be impossible to hear Faure's Requiem too often, but the fact is, it seldom turns up on concert programs. Bobby McFerrin, the virtuoso vocalist turned conductor, leads the work, with Dominique Labelle and Nathan Gunn as soloists, in a concert by the busy Orchestra of St. Luke's, with the Morgan State University Choir. The rest of the program is equally appealing: Prokofiev's ''Classical'' Symphony, Ravel's ''Tombeau de Couperin'' and, of course, vocal improvisations by Mr. McFerrin. In a second concert Mr. McFerrin and the orchestra are joined by Yo-Yo Ma. April 6, 10. Carnegie Hall. 
 BEAUX-ARTS TRIO It's sad, but probably time. With this hefty program -- both Schubert trios and a work by Gyorgy Kurtag -- the Beaux-Arts Trio bids farewell to its New York audience. In its heyday, when its lineup was Isidore Cohen, the violinist; Bernard Greenhouse, the cellist; and Menahem Pressler, the pianist, this was one of the world's great chamber groups. Now only Mr. Pressler remains, and although he and a parade of young colleagues (currently, Daniel Hope and Anthony Meneses) have kept the performance level high, the multigenerational Beaux-Arts doesn't quite have the spirit of the original. April 6. Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949. metmuseum.org. 
 'SATYAGRAHA' Philip Glass's second opera -- his first with an orchestral score -- has a fascinating dual focus. Its characters and action describe Gandhi's early years as a lawyer in South Africa, when he developed his philosophy of nonviolence as a means for social change. But the libretto, sung in Sanskrit, is drawn entirely from the Bhagavad-Gita, an ancient Hindu sacred text. It is a supremely moving work on both levels, and this second New York staging is woefully overdue. (The first was at the Brooklyn Academy in 1981.) Phelim McDermott directs this production, first seen at the English National Opera, and the tenor Richard Croft sings Gandhi. Opens April 11. Metropolitan Opera House. 
 EIGHTH BLACKBIRD Chamber groups that play from memory are rare; those that do so with complicated new music are rarer still. Eighth Blackbird does it not so much to show off but because its young players are fond of adding choreography to their performances. They offer two premieres, Steve Reich's Double Sextet and a collaborative work by the Bang on a Can compositional brain trust, Julia Wolfe, David Lang and Michael Gordon. April 17. Zankel Hall. 
 'LES TROYENS' Berlioz's epic setting of this tragic tale from the Aeneid should make a robust workout for James Levine, the Boston Symphony and a cast that includes Anne Sofie von Otter as Dido, Marcello Giordani as Aeneas, Yvonne Naef as Cassandra and Dwayne Croft as Chorebus. April 22-26 (Part 1); April 30-May 2 (Part 2), May 4 (complete). Symphony Hall, Boston. 
 'OUR TOWN' Few contemporary composers handle voices better than Ned Rorem, but his operas remain less well traveled than his songs. Perhaps ''Our Town'' -- based on the Thornton Wilder story (you may have seen the film, with Copland's score) -- will change that. When the work had its premiere at the Indiana University Opera Theater in 2006, Anne Midgette wrote that Mr. Rorem and his librettist, J. D. McClatchy, ''seem to have aspired to write an opera people would like, and they may have succeeded.'' But so far it seems destined for conservatory performances. Edward Berkeley directs, and Anne Manson conducts the students of the Juilliard Opera Center. April 23, 25, 27. Juilliard School. 
 MAY
 FREDERIC RZEWSKI A keyboard firebrand whose works often have political subtexts and bristle with anger, Mr. Rzewski joins the new-music ensemble Opus 21 to discuss and perform his works in an installment of Carnegie Hall's Making Music series. This May Day program includes his new ''Song and Dance,'' as well as ''Cadenza'' and a two-piano version of the thundering ''Winnsboro Cotton Mill Blues.'' May 1. Zankel Hall. 
 AMERICAN COMPOSERS ORCHESTRA Part competition, part glimpse into the near future of composition, the Underwood New Music Readings that traditionally cap the American Composers Orchestra season are a great barometer of new orchestral composition. At the end, one composer walks away with a $15,000 commission. Listeners over the years have had first hearings of music by Melinda Wagner, Derek Bermel, P. Q. Phan, Randall Woolf, Jennifer Higdon and Daniel Bernard Roumain. May 6-7. Skirball Center for Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 977-8495. americancomposers.org.
 PHILLIP BIMSTEIN AND NICO MUHLY Young composers care less than their elders about the distinctions that define high and low art, classical music and pop, and even street noise and organized sound. Phillip Bimstein uses street sounds as the raw material of his concert music, and Nico Muhly moves easily between the pop and classical worlds. They present recent works and are interviewed by John Schaefer in this ''New Sounds Live'' program. May 8. Merkin Concert Hall. 
 MITSUKO UCHIDA Originally a sublime Mozartean, then a supreme Schubert interpreter with unimpeachable bona fides as a Schoenberg and Beethoven interpreter, Mitsuko Uchida these days is a pianist you're ready to trust with anything she's willing to play. She opens this recital with a specialty, Schubert's C minor Sonata (D. 958), then moves toward Schumann's ''Symphonic Etudes'' by way of Bach and Gyorgy Kurtag. May 9. Carnegie Hall. 
 'WALL-TO-WALL BACH' For the last 30 years, Symphony Space has presented free, daylong ''wall to wall'' concerts devoted to a single composer, compositional style or musical era. To celebrate the start of the event's fourth decade, the recently refurbished hall returns to the subject of its very first production. The day of Bach concertos, sonatas, keyboard works and arias ends with a performance of the B minor Mass. May 17. Symphony Space. 
 JUNE
 AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA In his final concert of the season, Leon Botstein conducts music in which composers imagine the cosmos. Forget Holst's ''Planets'': that's too commonplace for this band. Instead, Mr. Botstein and company offer Gyorgy Ligeti's ''Atmospheres'' (not exactly unknown since its use in Stanley Kubrick's ''2001'') and ''Apparitions''; Toru Takemitsu's percussion-based ''Cassiopeia''; Andrzej Panufnik's Symphony No. 5 (''Symphony of the Spheres''); and Rued Langgaard's narcotically lush ''Music of the Spheres.'' June 1. Avery Fisher Hall. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The gambist Jordi Savall will lead his Baroque orchestra, Le Concert des Nations, in a performance in Zankel Hall.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. AR91)
Esa-Pekka Salonen opens Miller Theater's important Composer Portraits series.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE)(pg. AR92)
Alarm Will Sound has added early music to its mix. The ensemble will appear at Zankel Hall.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN BERNHAUT)
Janine Jansen will play Tchaikovsky with the New York Philharmonic.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Margaret Leng-Tan will perform with the jazz pianist Sylvie Courvoisier at Merkin Concert Hall.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YVONNE TAN)(pg AR93) DRAWING (DRAWING BY WADADA LEO SMITH)(pg. AR90)
 CHART: Places: Chart shows schedule of venues.(pg. AR93) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); OPERA (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); FILM (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); THEATER (53%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



197 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: In the Green Marathon, Which Stocks Will Be the Winners?

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
HIGH oil prices, cheap credit and government subsidies have been a boon for companies that promise to make more efficient use of energy or produce it from renewable sources. But it's unlikely that the investment climate for alternative energy will always be this favorable. If it shifts, some businesses will surely falter. 
 ''There's a rising tide that's lifted all boats,'' said Pearce Hammond, vice president for equity research at Simmons & Company International, an investment bank based in Houston that is focused on the energy industry. If prices of carbon-based fuels fall or interest rates rise, he said, some boats may start taking on water. 
 For buy-and-hold investors interested in alternative energy, a crucial question is this: Which companies are most likely to survive over the long haul? Some of the best prospects may be found among the companies that have made the most of recent fair-weather conditions -- either through gains in research or manufacturing processes, the raising of low-cost capital or timely acquisitions.
 One company that may fit that profile is SunPower, the manufacturer of solar cells, which is based in San Jose, Calif. Over the last several years, SunPower has increased the efficiency of its solar cells, which can now convert 22 percent of available solar energy into electricity, Mr. Hammond said. That compares with an industry average of 18 to 20 percent, and with SunPower's own efficiency of just 20 percent less than two years ago. 
 SunPower has also made a shrewd acquisition, buying the installation company PowerLight last year. This step makes a great deal of sense, said Stuart Bush, an alternative-energy analyst at RBC Capital Markets. Installation and service, he said, account for roughly half the total cost of solar systems. 
 While companies like SunPower have benefited from government tax policies, there has been a long-term gain for consumers. ''Government tax breaks for solar have encouraged technology advancement,'' he said. 
 Generating electricity from garbage doesn't have quite the aesthetic appeal of coaxing current from sunbeams, but it's a good business for the Covanta Holding Corporation, said J. Michael Horwitz, a partner and senior research analyst at Pacific Growth Equities in San Francisco. Covanta, based in Fairfield, N.J. contracts to buy trash from local municipalities and then burns it to create steam that powers turbines. Electricity derived from municipal waste qualifies for federal tax credits, though the credits are just half those for power generated from wind, solar and geothermal sources. 
 In January, Covanta refinanced nearly $1.3 billion in debt at lower interest rates, saving an estimated $39 million a year in debt service. The company also raised $136 million in a secondary stock offering. (Pacific Growth Equities was one of several underwriters.)
 Covanta has been active on other fronts as well, recently taking on a joint venture partner in China. It has also acquired two businesses that produce energy from wood waste. 
 Some promising companies focus on products that reduce electricity demand. Cree, based in Durham, N.C., is a manufacturer of light-emitting diodes, which are slowly emerging as a low-power alternative to conventional lighting. Costs of L.E.D.'s are still prohibitively high for most lighting applications, but they are coming down, said David Carlsen, a co-manager of the Buffalo Science and Technology fund, which holds Cree shares. 
 Cree has invested heavily in research and manufacturing to accelerate cost reductions, he said. Its capital spending has been running at 20 percent or more of revenue.
 ''That's high for a technology company,'' Mr. Carlsen said.
 In March, Cree acquired Cotco, a company based in Hong Kong that packages L.E.D. lights into lighting products sold directly to customers. 
 The deal also gives Cree a stronger international presence and allows greater marketing insight into customer needs.
 ''It provides a lower-cost packaging solution and a sales outlet in developing markets,'' Mr. Carlsen said. He expects L.E.D. lights, currently used widely in building signs, to find new applications as prices decline. L.E.D. lights use a small fraction of the energy of incandescent and fluorescent bulbs and need far less frequent replacement. 
 In areas of the developing world that lack an established electrical grid, L.E.D.'s could find favor, running household lighting powered by solar sources, said Robert Wilder, who created an index of alternative energy companies that is licensed by PowerShares WilderHill Clean Energy, an exchange-traded fund. ''Because of their low power requirements, L.E.D.'s can be used off the grid,'' Mr. Wilder said.
 WITH electricity consumption rising, many utilities are facing a choice: find ways to reduce demand or build new generating plants. Often, it is only demand at peak hours that needs to be supplemented. One company that offers a demand-control solution for its utility customers is Comverge, based in East Hanover, N.J. The company went public in April.
 Comverge contracts with Pacific Gas & Electric, Nevada Power and other utilities to lower their peak-time demand by installing specialized residential thermostats. These can shut down air-conditioners and other power-hungry equipment for brief periods during peak hours of electricity use. 
 ''On the margins, it's a very easy way for utilities to reduce the amount of electricity the region is using,'' said Mr. Bush of RBC Capital. 
 Comverge should produce $60 million in revenue this year, up from $34 million in 2006, Mr. Bush said. Having gone public months before, Comverge had the cash and stock to finance the purchase in July of Enerwise Global Technologies. The acquisition will allow Comverge to expand its demand-control efforts from residential to commercial and industrial utility customers. 
 Mr. Bush says he expects Comverge, which has been running losses, to achieve profitability next year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SunPower has installed its solar panels on four buildings at the Microsoft campus in Mountain View, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY AVELAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); WEATHER (77%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELL MFG (72%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (67%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (66%)

COMPANY: COVANTA HOLDING CORP (63%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%)

TICKER: CVA (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (63%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (63%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (63%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (63%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



198 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 0; Automobiles; DESIGN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: A Successor to the Hippie Van

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
ONE surprising legacy of the DaimlerChrysler union, which was expected to bring luxury-car polish and high-tech innovation to the American partner, turned out to be a commercial vehicle called the Sprinter. 
 Conceived in Europe as a Mercedes-Benz delivery truck in the 1990s, it was first brought to the United States under the Freightliner name in 2001; later, it became available as a Dodge, too. Despite being marketed as a tradesman's van and a hotel shuttle, the tall, spacious box has found a devoted following among Americans. 
 It has become the favored vehicle for a new generation of van fans, argued Paul Saffo, the futurist and Stanford University teacher, in his blog at saffo.com. The Sprinter, he wrote, became the spiritual successor to the Volkswagen Microbus of the 1960s and the Ford Econoline and other vans of later eras, noting that private individuals ''began purchasing Sprinters, turning them into mobile homes, windsurfing carriers, pedigree dog show transporters and, of course, surfer vans.'' 
 Early this year an updated Sprinter arrived, offering a choice of V-6s -- a 154-horsepower diesel or a 254-horsepower gasoline engine -- to replace a five-cylinder diesel. It comes in two choices of wheelbases and three heights, including the new Mega Roof with 84 inches of standing room. Base prices are $31,290 for the cargo version and $33,490 for the passenger model. 
 Sprinters bound for the United States are built in Dusseldorf and Ludwigsfelde, Germany, and shipped to Ladson, S.C., outside Charleston, where final touches are applied to the cargo versions. Though the parents have divorced, Sprinters will continue to be sold here, Chrysler said. Basically a wide-open box in its standard cargo form, the Sprinter's layout ought be familiar to Chrysler's new chief executive, Robert Nardelli, formerly of the big-box retailer Home Depot. 
 Sprinters can carry 12 passengers or lots of cargo, as FedEx and UPS know. Owners prize the easy access to the interior. There's a standard sliding door on the right side and an optional door on the left. The rear doors swing out 270 degrees, and when open are secured with cleverly placed magnets.
 The Sprinter's nimble handling and tight turning circle appeal to drivers tired of herding their motor homes down the road. R.V. makers, including Winnebago and Airstream, use Sprinter platforms for smaller models. 
 Possibly the most radically customized Sprinter is the Becker JetVan. Built by a California company known for limousine conversions, it offers a menu of upgrades, including private-jet-style seating, satellite TV and electric shades sandwiched between layers of glass (an option priced at about $40,000). A fully optioned JetVan sells for about $250,000. 
 Law enforcement agencies have taken to the Sprinter as well; Dodge promotes the van for transporting prisoners and SWAT teams, and as a rolling command post or investigative unit. Bad Boy Bail Bonds, based in San Jose, Calif., uses bright green Sprinters bearing the company motto: ''Because your Momma wants you home.'' The bondmobile is one of many Sprinters documented on the Web at streetcarmike.com.
 Van enthusiasts who have maintained their '60s idealism will be gratified to learn that hybrid Sprinters are in the works, at least on a trial basis. A fleet of up to 20 plug-in hybrid Sprinters using lithium-ion batteries will be placed with customers in the test program to evaluate the technology.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FIRST CLASS: Interior of the Becker JetVan, left, is as plush as a corporate jet. Below, from top, Sprinters serve as prisoner transports, a cafe's rolling billboard and FedEx delivery vans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); WATER SPORTS (67%); EXTREME SPORTS (67%); HOME CENTERS (67%); DOGS (67%); MOTOR HOME MFG (64%); RETAILERS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (50%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (78%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



199 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 2491 words

HEADLINE: October

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
OCTOBER
 Oct. 3
 LAKE OF FIRE Tony Kaye's lengthy, detailed, deeply ambiguous documentary on abortion in the United States.
 Oct. 5
 FEEL THE NOISE A South Bronx teenager dreams of rap stardom until his plans are interrupted by a violent gang and he is forced to move to Puerto Rico. Directed by Alejandro Chomski; with Giancarlo Esposito and Omarion Grandberry. 
 FINISHING THE GAME From the writer-director Justin Lin (''The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift''), a mock documentary about turning the 12 minutes of ''Game of Death'' filmed by Bruce Lee before his death into an exploitable motion picture. With Roger Fan and James Franco. 
 FOR THE BIBLE TELLS ME SO Daniel G. Karslake's documentary looks at the Roman Catholic Church's use of scripture to justify the repression of gay men and women. 
 THE GOOD NIGHT Gwyneth Paltrow's brother, Jake, directed this comedy about an aging pop star (Martin Freeman) who hasn't given up on finding happiness despite being reduced to writing advertising jingles. Hey, Gwyneth's in it, too! With Danny DeVito, Penelope Cruz and Simon Pegg. 
 GRACE IS GONE How a father of two (John Cusack) informs his two daughters that their mother has been killed in Iraq. A Sundance favorite; Clint Eastwood is said to be rewriting the music. James C. Strouse writes and directs. 
 THE HEARTBREAK KID Bobby and Peter Farrelly remake Elaine May's 1972 comedy, with Ben Stiller stepping in for Charles Grodin as a man who falls in love with another woman (Michelle Monaghan) while he's on his honeymoon. With Malin Akerman, Jerry Stiller. 
 MICHAEL CLAYTON The screenwriter Tony Gilroy, most recently of the ''Bourne'' '' series, directs his first feature, the story of a problem-solver for a New York law firm (George Clooney) who runs into one problem -- that of a senior partner (Tom Wilkinson) in the grip of a moral crisis -- that may lie beyond his powers. With Tilda Swinton and Sydney Pollack. 
 MY KID COULD PAINT THAT Is 4-year-old Marla Olmstead the artistic heir to Pollock and Kandinsky, or are the paintings she has sold (some $300,000 worth) the work of someone else? Amir Bar-Lev's documentary, according to the Sundance Festival catalog, ''wisely allows audience members to draw their own conclusions.''
 NINA'S HEAVENLY DELIGHTS The lesbian daughter of a Scottish-Indian family comes home to Glasgow to save the family restaurant -- while romancing an old schoolmate and practicing her Bollywood moves. Pratibha Parmar directs. 
 PARK An independent picture from Los Angeles, featuring that form's favorite structure: the criss-crossing lives and intertwining fates of Angelenos lured outside their automobiles. Here, the criss-crossing happens in a city park. With Billy Baldwin, Ricki Lake, Cheri Oteri and Anne Dudek. Kurt Voelker writes and directs.
 SEA MONSTERS: A PREHISTORIC ADVENTURE National Geographic presents the dinosaurs of the ocean, depicted in an IMAX documentary narrated by Liev Schreiber. 
 THE SEEKER: THE DARK IS RISING A teenage boy discovers he's the last of a group of mythic warriors whose mission has been to battle the forces of darkness, when not reading comic books. David L. Cunningham directs; with Ian McShane and Christopher Eccleston. 
 SHOOT DOWN ''Brothers to the Rescue'' is a Miami-based Cuban refugee group that uses civilian aircraft to patrol the waters between Cuba and Florida. In 1996 four members were shot down by Cuban jets and killed; Cristina Khuly, whose uncle was one of the four, directs this documentary.
 STRANGE CULTURE Lynn Hershman Leeson's film combines documentary and dramatized scenes to tell the story of Steve Kurtz, an artist and professor whose work criticizes the commercial use of biotechnology. When his wife died in her sleep, investigating agents became suspicious of Mr. Kurtz's artwork, which involves biologically engineered material, and he was detained as a suspected bioterrorist. With Tilda Swinton and Peter Coyote. 
 VANTAGE POINT Five varying accounts of an assassination attempt on the President, rendered ''Rashomon''-style by the television director Pete Travis. With Sigourney Weaver, Matthew Fox, Dennis Quaid and Forest Whitaker. 
 Oct. 10
 CONTROL Sam Riley plays Ian Curtis, the lead singer of Joy Division, who committed suicide at 23, in a dramatization directed by Anton Corbijn. Samantha Morton portrays his wife, Deborah Curtis (who wrote the book the film is based on). 
 BERKELEY Bobby Roth, one of the founding members of the current American independent film movement (''The Boss' Son,'' 1978) returns with a coming-of-age story set in the title city in 1968. Nick Roth, the director's son, plays the central character, a naive young man adrift in an ocean of sex, drugs and politics. With Bonnie Bedelia, Laura Jordan and Henry Winkler. 
 CANVAS A working-class family feels the pain of a mother (Marcia Gay Harden) beset by schizophrenia. Joe Pantoliano is the construction worker fighting to find the money to pay his wife's medical bills; Devon Gearhart is the couple's 10-year-old son. Joseph Greco wrote and directs.
 ELIZABETH: THE GOLDEN AGE That most regal of actresses, Cate Blanchett, returns to her early success ''Elizabeth'' (1998) to continue the story of the Virgin Queen. Shekhar Kapur again directs; with Clive Owen, Geoffrey Rush and Samantha Morton (as Mary, Queen of Scots).
 KHADAK The snow-covered steppes of Mongolia provide the background for the story of a young nomad, Bagi (Khayankhyarvaa Batzul), who discovers that a plague affecting his wandering tribe's livestock may actually be part of a government plot to eliminate the nomads' way of life. Directed by Peter Brosens and Jessica Woodworth.
 KING CORN In a documentary directed by Aaron Woolf, a pair of college friends move from the East coast back to Iowa where they raise an acre of corn and then look on in amazement and despair as it moves through the marketplace.
 LAAGA CHUNARI MEIN DAAG Which translates from the Hindi as ''My Veil Is Stained,'' though the English title is ''Journey of a Woman.'' In any case, the journey is one of respectability to disgrace for a middle-class woman who turns to prostitution to support her financially strapped family. For Bollywood fans, the big news is the reuniting of the romantic team Rani Mukherjee and Abhishek Bachchan. Pradeep Sarkar (''Parineeta'') directs. 
 LARS AND THE REAL GIRLRyan Gosling headlines a quirky independent comedy about a timid young man who introduces his family to his new girlfriend -- a mail order sex doll. With Patricia Clarkson and Emily Mortimer; Craig Gillespie directs. 
 POSTAL The inimitable Uwe Boll, the German filmmaker who seems determined to carry on the Eurotrash tradition all by himself, returns with a film adapted from a notorious video game about a short-tempered clerical worker, the Postal Dude (Zack Ward) who plots an assault on an amusement park with the help of his eccentric uncle (Dave Foley). 
 ROGUE An ill-tempered giant crocodile spoils an Australian vacation for an American travel writer and his family. Greg Mclean of ''Wolf Creek'' directed; with Michael Vartan and Radha Mitchell.
 SLEUTHMichael Caine was the junior partner to Laurence Olivier when Joseph L. Mankiewicz filmed Anthony Shaffer's two-handed suspense piece in 1972; 35 years later, he's the crafty oldster setting a trap for his wife's lover (Jude Law). Kenneth Branagh directs. 
 TERROR'S ADVOCATEBarbet Schroeder, who memorably profiled one controversial figure in ''General Idi Amin Dada'' (1974), goes after another in his new documentary: Jacques Verges, the French lawyer whose clients have included Klaus Barbie and Carlos the Jackal.
 WE OWN THE NIGHT James Gray, the chronicler of New York crime (''Little Odessa,''''The Yards'') returns with the story of Brooklyn brothers on opposite sides of the law: Mark Wahlberg is a cop, like his father (Robert Duvall), Joaquin Phoenix is the manager of a nightclub operated by the Russian mob. With Eva Mendes and Tony Musante. 
 WHY DID I GET MARRIED? Another play-into-movie by the prolific artist Tyler Perry, whose subject this time is the difficulty of remaining monogamous in a world full of temptation. Mr. Perry stars with Janet Jackson, Malik Yoba and Jill Scott. Oct. 17
 OUT OF THE BLUE A trivial disagreement with a neighbor touches off what is said to be the worst shooting rampage in New Zealand history -- 13 victims. Karl Urban plays the killer, an unemployed man with a collection of automatic weapons. Directed by Robert Sarkies. 
 PIOTR UKLANSKI: SUMMER LOVE Mr. Uklanski, a Polish artist making his first film, draws on the imagery of the American western. Karel Roden plays a stranger who arrives in a frontier town with the body of a wanted man (Val Kilmer) slung over his horse.
 Oct. 19
 AFTER DARK HORRORFEST 2 Eight independently made horror films shown over a 10-day period, titles yet to be announced. 
 FAT GIRLS Ash Christian wrote, directed and stars in a comedy about a closeted high school senior who thinks of himself as a ''fat girl'' because of his low sense of self-worth. With Ashley Fink, Robin de Jesus and Jonathan Caouette (the director of ''Tarnation''). 
 GONE BABY GONEMorgan Freeman and Casey Affleck star in a thriller directed by Mr. Affleck's older brother, en, based on a Dennis Lehane novel about a child kidnapping in Boston. With Michelle Monaghan, Ed Harris, Amy Madigan and Amy Ryan. 
 THE MAN FROM PLAINS The director Jonathan Demme follows President Jimmy Carter on a tour for his newest book, ''Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid.''
 MR. UNTOUCHABLE The Sundance-winning director Marc Levin (''Slam'') spins a documentary around the figure of a quasi-mythical drug lord. 
 RENDITIONReese Witherspoon stars in this thriller set in the Middle East and directed by Gavin Hood, the South African who won a foreign-language Oscar for ''Tsotsi.'' With Jake Gyllenhaal, Meryl Streep, Alan Arkin and Peter Sarsgaard. 
 RESERVATION ROAD From the director of ''Hotel Rwanda,''Terry George, an Oscar-friendly project about a professor (Joaquin Phoenix) on the trail of the killer of his 10-year-old son. Mark Ruffalo, Jennifer Connelly and Mira Sorvino co-star. THE SIGNAL The world's benign electronic devices turn on us, driving humans to kill. David Bruckner, Dan Bush and Jacob Gentry direct and write this independent horror film that landed a slot at Sundance.
 30 DAYS OF NIGHT The British director David Slade (''Hard Candy'') helms a horror film set in an Alaskan town where the sun isn't seen for a month at a time -- conditions favorable to the mysterious creatures who are considering moving in. With Josh Hartnett, Melissa George and Danny Huston, adapted from a series of comic books.
 WRISTCUTTERS: A LOVE STORY Sent to a bureaucratic purgatory for suicides, Patrick Fugit searches for the woman he once loved, helped by his new friends Shea Whigham and Shannyn Sossamon. Goran Dukic directs. 
 Oct. 24
 LAGERFELD CONFIDENTIAL Rodolphe Marconi takes a long, hard look at the fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld. Nicole Kidman and Princess Caroline of Monaco make appearances.
 O JERUSALEM The story of the birth of Israel in 1948, presented through the convenient device of two best friends: one Jew, one Arab. Elie Chouraqui directed this French production, based on the novel by Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre. With J J Feild, Said Taghmaoui and Maria Papas -- and Tovah Feldshuh as Golda Meir. 
 Oct. 26
 BEFORE THE DEVIL KNOWS YOU'RE DEADPhilip Seymour Hoffman and Ethan Hawke play brothers who rob the jewelry store that belongs to their parents, with results even more disastrous that one might anticipate. Directed by the 83-year-old Sidney Lumet . With Albert Finney and Marisa Tomei.
 THE COMEBACKS A parody of battling underdog sports movies. Tom Brady directs; David Koechner plays the tough-talking coach who's just got to bring his misfit recruits around.
 DAN IN REAL LIFE A widowed advice columnist (Steve Carell) takes his children to visit his family and on the way, falls hard for an attractive woman (Juliette Binoche) who just happens to be his brother's latest girlfriend. Dane Cook, John Mahoney and Diane Wiest star in a new comedy by Peter Hedges (''Pieces of April''). 
 DARFUR NOW Another look at the tragedy in Sudan, this one narrated by Don Cheadle and written and directed by Ted Braun. 
 MARTIAN CHILD John Cusack finds himself faced with an adopted son who firmly believes that he's from Mars. With Joan Cusack, Amanda Peet and Oliver Platt; Menno Meyjes directs. 
 MUSIC WITHIN The story of Richard Pimentel (Ron Livingston), a professional public speaker who returned from Vietnam with a severe hearing impairment and went on to become an advocate for persons with disabilities. Steven Sawalichdirects; Melissa George and Michael Sheen star.
 RAILS AND TIES Alison Eastwood turns, like her old man, from acting to directing with a somber tale of a train conductor (Kevin Bacon) overwhelmed by guilt when his train strikes a car and kills a woman. She leaves behind a young son (Miles Heizer) who blames the conductor, but develops a complex relationship with him. 
 RUN, FAT BOY, RUN Simon Pegg of ''Hot Fuzz'' stars in a comedy directed by the the ''Friends'' star David Schwimmer; he's a pudgy loser who decides to get in shape to regain the affection of his former fiancee. With Thandie Newton, Hank Azaria.
 SAW IV What? You thought there wouldn't be another one? Darren Lynn Bousman directs, as he has since Episode 2. THE SKY TURNS ( EL GIRA CIELO) Mercedes Alvarez's documentary about the Spanish village where she was born and raised; the village is dying off, and now has only 14 residents, the youngest 48 years old.
 SLIPSTREAMAnthony Hopkins directed, wrote, scored and stars in a metaphysical drama about a Hollywood screenwriter who can't tell where his script ends and his life begins. The cast includes Michael Clarke Duncan, Christian Slater, and John Turturro. 
 STILL LIFE The Chinese director Jia Zhang-ke is quickly moving to the forefront of his national cinema with films like ''The World'' and ''Platform.'' This feature is set in a city about to be obliterated by the Three Gorges dam project, and is largely centered on a coal miner who has returned in search of his estranged wife. 
 THINGS WE LOST IN THE FIRE The Danish director Susanne Bier seems to be single-handedly reviving the art of the tear-jerker, with ''Brothers'' in 2004 and ''After the Wedding'' in 2006. Her new film, and her first in English, stars Halle Berry as a widow who allows her husband's unstable best friend (Benicio Del Toro) to move in with her family. 
 WEIRDSVILLE The Canadian filmmaker Allan Moyle (''Pump Up the Volume'') resurfaces with a horror picture that explores the unfortunate results of dumping a dead body in the basement of a drive-in theater frequented by Satanists. With Wes Bentley, Raoul Bhaneja and Taryn Manning. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, Cate Blanchett in ''Elizabeth: The Golden Age''
George Clooney as an in-house fixer for a law firm in ''Michael Clayton''
Michael Caine, left, and Jude Law in ''Sleuth''
 John Cusack in ''Grace Is Gone,'' about the human cost of the Iraq war. Far left, Sam Riley as a troubled pop star in ''Control.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN-LOUIS BOMPOINT/THE WEINSTEIN COMPANY)(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURIE SPARHAM/UNIVERSAL)(PHOTOGRAPH BY MYLES ARONOWITZ/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES)(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID APPLEBY/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN-LOUIS BOMPOINT/THE WEINSTEIN COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (85%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM (75%); RELIGION (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); ABORTION (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); FAMILY COMPANIES (67%); POP & ROCK (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); PAINTING (65%); IRAQ WAR (65%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (56%); BEN STILLER (56%); GEORGE CLOONEY (56%); CATE BLANCHETT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (86%); SCOTLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007



200 of 717 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: It's Monetary Policy, Not a Morality Play

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen, the author of ''Discover Your Inner Economist: Use Incentives to Fall in Love, Survive Your Next Meeting, and Motivate Your Dentist,'' is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
WHEREVER there are problems, people look for villains. The subprime mortgage crisis is a case in point. Hedge fund managers and speculators have been blamed for buying securitized loans heedlessly and spreading financial risk beyond the banking sector.
 And since every villain must be punished, the Federal Reserve is being attacked as ''bailing out the speculators.'' Because it has injected additional liquidity into the economy, and kept short-term interest rates from rising, the Fed has been portrayed as a craven tool of the rich, in the pocket of Wall Street but neglecting the concerns of Main Street. 
 But financial markets rarely fit into simple moral narratives, and much as these stories may comfort many of us, they are not a good guide to understanding financial policy. Talk of a bailout is overstated. Some institutions have benefited from Fed policy, but the story is not a conspiratorial one: liquid markets are good for many investors, and if the Fed succeeds in keeping markets running, that helps hedge funds, too. 
 The Fed, for all its economic influence, cannot undo most investment mistakes. Bad mortgage loans, in particular, are of many years' duration and won't be made good by a temporary dip in short-term interest rates. 
 It is true that a more liquid short-term loan market can give a highly leveraged institution a second chance. An immediate infusion of cash can be a lifeline for a solvent, but illiquid, company. But keeping loan markets open is not a bailout; it's simply getting part of the economic infrastructure back on line, much as the police clear a road after a traffic accident. Note that when the Fed makes it easier for financial institutions to borrow money, the loan must still be repaid.
 Colorful interpretations of recent monetary policy abound, from both commentators and politicians. Depending on the storyteller, the policy reflects the triumph of the rich over the poor, an atonement for the sins of the Bush administration, a long-awaited comeuppance for the American economy, a continuing hangover from the dot-com bubble, or an inability of the professor (Ben S. Bernanke) to handle a real-world job (running the Fed).
 Journalists are especially likely to embrace narratives, if only because their editors and their readers clamor for them. Of course, if there are enough competing stories, some of them will fit or predict some real-world events, if only because of random luck. 
 Nonetheless, Fed watchers should resist the tendency to put all events into a simple or a morally plausible narrative. Monetary policy is a largely technical subject, and its ups and downs don't usually fit into the kinds of emotion-laden stories that human beings apply to daily life. The ''us versus them'' tag registers in human memory, but monetary policy is not always or even usually about moral issues. As Freud famously noted, sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.
 Financial market news, which is by nature unpredictable, suffers from distortion when it is crammed into the form of a simple story. Unlike most well-structured narratives, the zigs and zags of daily profit and loss defy simple categorization in terms of moral precepts.
 In the case of subprime mortgages, many investors did not foresee the risk of collateralized debt securities. In response to this crisis, the Fed has been trying to keep a steady hand and prevent a credit crunch. We don't yet know how well the Fed has succeeded, or how well it could have done in the first place. And the storm has not yet fully passed. 
 Of course, such an account of recent financial history sounds mundane and offers less human conflict. It's less like the stories that people have gossiped about for thousands of years and thus will have less traction, even if it is a better guide to monetary policy issues.
 Debating Fed policy in terms of strong moral narratives makes it harder for the Fed to do a good job. For instance, if interest-rate cuts are portrayed as a bailout for hedge fund managers, it's harder for the Fed to cut interest rates, if that turns out to be the appropriate policy. It also makes the public wonder -- unjustifiably -- who else might deserve a subsidy as well. 
 Both President Bush and Congress are preparing plans to assist homeowners facing foreclosure. Many of these proposals are political pandering, designed to win votes by easing the pain of homeowners. Yet someone else is paying the bill, so protecting people from their mistakes in this way does not promote the general public welfare. In any case, these proposals should be evaluated on their (often slight) merits, rather than seen as a quid pro quo for another bailout already made.
 THE American public has a hard-enough time understanding relatively simple economic issues like the benefits of free trade, much less the Fed or monetary policy. So if the picture sticks that the Fed is a shill for hedge fund managers, or that it is treating homeowners unfairly, the pressure will mount for Congress to limit the Fed's independence. Yet most economists, on a bipartisan basis, agree that relatively independent central banks have a better record of maintaining economic stability and keeping down price inflation. 
 Wealthy financiers and hedge funds make for easy targets, especially when combined with the arcane field of central banking. But the real moral question is whether we will prove mentally tough enough. Can we resist the temptation to force financial markets and the Fed into oversimplified moral narratives? Or will we continue to blame Zeus for lightning strikes? 
 The question of our mental strength and discipline is also a story -- and I hope it has a happy ending. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SECURITIZATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); JOURNALISM (74%); WRITERS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2007

 
